[Page 61]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal system (the
Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 43,200 located in the City of El Centro.
The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant, which is 8.0 MGD, and is located in Section 39, T15S, R13E, SBB&M. The
discharge consists of disinfected secondary treated wastewater.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment System
Wastewater from the community is pumped from seven lift stations to a final lift station, from
which it is pumped to preliminary treatment, where solids are removed by an automatic bar
screen. Manual injection of ferric chloride and polymer is added to the process at the main lift
station to remove metals from the wastewater. Wastewater is then directed through the plant’s
primary clarifiers. Secondary treatment is achieved through biological treatment via six aeration
basins and secondary clarification through four final clarifiers. The wastewater is then
disinfected using ultraviolet (UV) light before being discharged to the Central Main Drain.
Primary sludge generated from the primary clarifiers is pumped to anaerobic digesters.
Secondary sludge generated from the secondary clarifiers is processed through a gravity belt
thickener, with the de-watered sludge sent to the anaerobic digesters. Following anaerobic
digestion, sludge is directed through a belt press, dried to approximately 90 percent solids in
drying beds and then land-applied at locations in Arizona. The Facility maintains an emergency
storage basin for use during cleaning of the UV disinfection channel or plant malfunction. The
emergency storage basin can be pumped to the primary clarifiers if necessary, but is typically
allowed to evaporate.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the Central
Main Drain (beneath La Brucherie Street), a tributary to the Alamo River, a water of the United
States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32° 49’ 06” North and
Longitude 115° 34’ 44” West, to the Central Main Drain.
ATTACHMENT F –

===PLANNED CHANGES===

