[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides sewerage service to the U.S. Navy’s Naval Air
Facility El Centro with a service population of approximately 1,580. The permitted maximum daily
flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant which is 0.3 MGD
and is located in Section 25, T15S, R12E, SBB&M. The discharge consists of disinfected
secondary treated sanitary wastewater.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of an influent diversion box, three equalization tanks, an
automatic bar screen, an oxidation ditch, and a secondary clarifier. Effluent is chlorinated
using sodium hypochlorite solution and dechlorinated using a sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge. The Facility also maintains an 4 million gallon overflow storage pond with a
synthetic liner, which can divert flow from the equalization tanks. The WWTP provides
domestic sewage services to the Naval Air Facility.
Raw water leaves two pump houses and enters three 18,000-gallon equalization tanks, in
parallel. From the equalization basins, raw water passes through the influent junction box, a
flow meter and automatic sampler, and then through an automatic bar screen. The
wastewater undergoes biological treatment in the oxidation ditch, followed by solids
separation in the secondary clarifier. Wastewater is disinfected in the chlorine contact
chamber by injecting sodium hypochlorite followed by dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
A portion of the solids separated in the secondary clarifier is pumped back to the oxidation
ditch for additional treatment and the remaining portion is pumped to one of six drying beds,
dried, and placed in trash bins prior to being hauled away by a contractor (currently Allied
Waste Services) to the Allied Waste Imperial Landfill (Imperial, CA) for disposal.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 68]
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the
unnamed tributary to the New River. From the unnamed tributary to the New River, effluent
flows approximately 180 yards prior to entering New River, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharge

===PLANNED CHANGES===

