[Page 61]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal system
(Facility) and provides sewerage service to a population of approximately 1,000 located in the town
of Niland. The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant which is 0.50 MGD. The Facility is located in the SW 1/4 of Section 9,
T11S, R14E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment System
Treatment consists of headworks comprising a manual bar screen and a lift pump station, three
lined ponds connected in series (Ponds 1, 2, and 3), each with two aeration units for aerated
stabilization, and contact chlorination using sodium hypochlorite followed by dechlorination
using sodium bisulfite.
The plant handles and directs overflow discharge from the headwork to an emergency overflow
basin, located parallel to the aeration pond. A separate groundwater pump station, located
adjacent to the influent lift pump station, was designed to lower the water level under and
around the aeration basins to prevent the liner to “pop” up due to infiltrating water when the
basin is being emptied for cleaning/ maintenance.
Based on the report summarizing the NPDES Permit Compliance Evaluation Inspection (CEI)
that was conducted January 28, 2016, accumulated biosolids are dredged from the lagoons
and from the chlorination chamber cell bottoms and disposed of on drying beds. Dried solids
are analyzed prior to removal off-site for disposal at a landfill. Solids have not been removed
from the site in recent years because very little sludge is generated.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33° 13’ 39” North and
Longitude 115° 31’ 39” West, to an unnamed tributary to Imperial Irrigation District’s “R” Drain.
C. Summary of Historic Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR)

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is considering the use of evaporation/percolation ponds to phase out the
NPDES discharge.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 65]
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this Section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This Ord