[Page 71]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Date Gardens Mobile Home Park (MHP) Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)
services a population of approximately 250 individuals among 72 mobile home spaces. The
Date Gardens MHP is located in El Centro, located in the Imperial Valley. The Facility
produces wastewater that is 100% domestic, with no industrial or commercial discharge.
The WWTP has a design capacity of 0.02 million gallons-per-day (MGD) and is located in
the SW ¼ of Section 34, T15S, R13E, SBB&M.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 72]
PETER M. ORMOND ORDER R7-2013-0009
DATE GARDENS MOBILE HOME PARK WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104841
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of two activated sludge treatment plants operated in
parallel. One of the package plants has a design capacity of 0.005 MGD (“Unit 1”) and
the other plant has a design capacity of 0.015 MGD (“Unit 2”). Sewage is conveyed
from the MHP by gravity through a pipe into two wetwells located adjacent to the
package plants. Sewage is pumped up to the package plants using two submersible
sewage pumps. Sewage passes through a rotating drum receiving preliminary treatment
and then passes through a manually controlled flow splitter, which the facility operator
uses to direct wastewater flow to selected unit processes within the treatment system.
Wastewater exits the activated sludge treatment basin(s) through a pipe into a circular
clarifier. Return-activated sludge is pumped back into the activated sludge treatment
plant and mixed liquor is directed to the clarifier. Clarifier effluent, e.g. overflow, is then
directed through two dual media filters, and then through an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection
system prior to being directed through a final effluent channel and weir box.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Rice Drain No. 3, an Imperial
Valley Drain, a water of the United States. Rice Drain No. 3 flows for a distance of
approximately 7 miles before entering the New River at a point approximately 30 miles
to the Salton Sea.
The Discharger indicated during the January 23, 2013 site visit the current configuration
of the treatment plant employs one of the package plants (Unit 1) as a solids digester
unit as a means to reduce the amount of sludge generated at the treatment plant.
Return-activated sludge is pumped back into the activated sludge treatment unit.
Digested sludge from the solids digester (Unit 1) is pumped to one of two (2) drying
beds located next to the package plant. When dried sludge is removed from the beds, it
is disposed of at a landfill. Further, solids removed during preliminary treatment (i.e.,
screening and grit removal) are dried and removed daily for pick-up by the trash
removal service, which hauls solid waste off-site.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to Rice
Drain No. 3, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32º, 48’, 00” North
and Longitude 115º, 37’, 45” West,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

