[Page 58]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal system (the
Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 2,100 located in the town of Seeley.
The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant which is 0.25 MGD and is located in the NE ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 11, T16S,
R12E, SBB&M. The discharge consists of disinfected equivalent to secondary treated wastewater.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment System
The current treatment system consists of flow equalization, grinding, oxidation pond
treatments through a Clemson aerated pond system consisting of five ponds with surface
aerators, sand filtration, and disinfection using an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system. The
collection system provides conveyance of raw wastewater to the treatment facility. The
wastewater collection system contains one lift station at the headworks of the wastewater
treatment plant. Following installation of the Clemson process facilities in 2004, one of the
original 2.4-acre lagoons was retrofitted to a primary oxidation pond and used as an
equalization basin prior to entry into the Clemson system (comprised of ponds, or reaction
basins). Wastewater first enters the primary oxidation pond, currently reported to remove
approximately 40 percent of the influent BOD and TSS. Flow from the primary oxidation pond
5
then enters Clemson Pond #1.
Each Clemson pond/reaction basin is equipped with a surface aerator. Removal and
stabilization of organic matter takes place in the reaction basins, Clemson Ponds #1 and #2,
through biological oxidation and reduction reactions that generate biomass. The biomass is
then separated by gravity sedimentation in the last 3 ponds, Ponds #3, #4, and #5. The
secondary effluent is then filtered by three pressurized granular media filters and disinfected
via UV light. Following UV disinfection, the treated effluent is discharged to the New River, via
an unnamed tributary. The Facility maintains two UV disinfection units, reserving one unit as a
back-up unit.
The Discharger dredged Clemson Ponds #1 and #2 to remove sludge that had built up on the
pond floor. The sludge was placed into an empty oxidation pond for solar drying. During the
site visit conducted in January, 2017, the Discharger stated that they initiated the Clemson
Pond dredging approximately 18 months prior.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to an
unnamed tributary to the New River, a water of the United States.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 59]
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32° 47’ 45” North and
Longitude 115° 42’ 10” West, to an unna

===PLANNED CHANGES===

