[Page 0]
2. The Discharger is discharging a maximum daily flow of 50,000 gallons-per-day
(gpd) of domestic sewage from 110 mobile home spaces and 647 campground
spaces. Thirty-four campground spaces are connected to the sewerage system
and the other 613 campground spaces do not generate wastewater. The
wastewater is pumped by one sewer lift station and discharged into two clay lined
oxidation basins for evaporation with a design average daily flow of 28,000 gpd of
effluent. A third basin used only for emergency conditions was designed as a
percolation basin and is to the north of the two oxidation basins. There was no
discharge to the third basin in 2015, and there has been no discharge to it in 2016,
so far. There is no flow metering or screening of the wastewater generated by the
Facility.
3. Additionally, the discharger is discharging a total of 1,600 gallons-per-day of hand-
washing wastewater from eight restrooms which are located a minimum of 300 feet
from the Colorado River. Each of the restrooms is serviced by a 150-gallon grease
trap and a leachfield. The wastewater from each restroom is discharged into a
grease trap and then to flows through a distribution box into a 60-square foot
leachfield. The eight leachfields have a total area of 420 square feet and they are
[Page 1]
Park Moabi Marina Board Order R7-2016-0017
Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
800 feet apart, extending for over a mile along the river and one-half mile north of
the trailer park. Toilet wastewater from each restroom is discharged through a
self-contained fluid-flush recirculating unit into a sealed 1,000-gallon tank and then
hauled and discharged into the oxidation basins.
4. The Discharger operates a restaurant at the Facility known as Pirate’s Cove.
Wastewater from the kitchen flows through a grease interceptor to the sewer lift
station and then discharged into the evaporation basins. Solids and sludge
removed from the grease interceptor by a licensed septage hauler will be disposed
of in accordance with state regulations. In the event of a commercial power failure,
an alarm on the pump station will sound. The Discharger has as energy back-up
a gasoline engine that can be used to pump the wastewater to the evaporation
basins during emergencies.
5. Park Moabi Marina has been subject to Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
adopted in Colorado River Basin Water Board Order 94-089 on November 15,
1994. The Colorado River Basin Water Board has determined that WDRs for the
discharge are in need of revision.
6. Park Moabi Marina and these WDRs are identified in the California Integrated
Water Quality System (CIWQS) by Waste Discharge Identification (WDID)
7B360115051.
7. This Order updates the WDRs to comply with current laws and regulations as set
forth in the California Water Code (CWC) and the California Code of Regulations
(CCR).
8. This Board Order regulates the entire wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal system, Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF) at Park Moabi Marina.
The WWTF at Park Moabi Marina consists of collection lines, septic tanks, holding
tanks, sewer lift station with pump lines and the evaporation basins, operated
independently, for disposal by evaporation. Solids that accumulate in the primary
septic tanks are periodically pumped by a licensed septage hauler for offsite
disposal at a facility permitted for that purpose.
9. Wastewater from the WWTF is discharged to one basin at a time; the receiving
basin is alternated to allow each basin to periodically dry up.
10. Annual precipitation in the vicinity averages about 4 inches per year.
11. The evaporation rate is about 84 inches per year and varyies by season, with
highest evaporation rates occurring during the months of May through August, and
the lowest during the months of November through February.
12. There are no wells within 500 feet of the disposal facilities described in Finding No.
2, above. The water supply well for the park, which is located about 900 feet from
2
[Page 2]
Park Moabi Marina Board Order R7-2016-0017
Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Re

===PLANNED CHANGES===

