[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system (the
Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 2,400 located in the City of
Westmorland and surrounding areas. The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the
design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant which is 0.5 MGD and is located in the SW ¼ of
Section 4, T13S, R13E, SBB&M. The discharge consists of disinfected secondary treated
wastewater.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Flow from the end of the collection system to the treatment plant is gravity-fed. The collection
system includes one wet well and two pumps (capacity: 600 gpm/ pump). One of the two
pumps is being rehabilitated; therefore, currently only one pump is in operation. The Facility
maintains another pump as a backup. The headworks system includes a sewage grinder, a
sewage pump station, a cyclone unit (for grit removal), and an influent flow meter. The influent
station does not include screening. Flow from the headworks is conveyed to an oxidation
ditch for activated sludge generation. Following the oxidation ditch, wastewater is directed to
a distribution box that conveys flow to one of two 28-foot secondary clarifiers (one clarifier
operates for approximately 6 months before alternating to the other clarifier). Following
treatment in the secondary clarifiers, flow is sent through one of two chlorine contact basins,
one of which is on stand-by. The Facility disinfects wastewater using sodium hypochlorite for
chlorination and sodium bisulfite for dechlorination. Following disinfection, effluent is
discharged through Discharge Point 001.
During the site visit, the Discharger indicated that the Facility no longer accepts recreational
vehicle (RV) waste.
Return activated sludge (RAS) and waste activated sludge (WAS) are pumped from the two
secondary clarifiers to one of four RAS/WAS pumps (only one pump is used at a time).
The Facility includes six sludge drying beds, one of which (#1) is dedicated to scum removed
from the secondary clarifiers. The drying bed dedicated to solids removal contains a drain that
is connected to the plant headworks. Sludge is dried on-site for one year and dried solids are
transferred to a 40-cubic yard storage container for removal off-site. Dried solids are tested
prior to removal from the Facility. Final disposal of biosolids is at the Imperial County Landfill.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to Trifolium
Drain No. 6, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 63]
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33° 02’ 45” North and
Longitude 115° 37’ 44” West, to Trifolium Drain No. 6.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

