[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter Facility) and provides sewerage service to a population of approximately
33,000 individuals located in the City of Calexico. The wastewater treatment plant has a
treatment capacity of 4.3 MGD and is located in the NW ¼ of the SW ¼ of Section 14,
T17S, R14E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility provides secondary treatment through two treatment trains; one is an
activated sludge treatment system with a design capacity of 2.5 MGD, and the second
is an aerated lagoon treatment system with a design capacity of 1.8 MGD. The overall
design capacity for the treatment plant is 4.3 MGD. Wastewater is passed through
preliminary, primary, and secondary treatment systems before being disinfected and
discharged to the New River. Influent flow is split at the diversion structure to the
individual treatment trains. All influent flow passes through the preliminary treatment
systems, which consist of a mechanical bar screen, manual bypass bar screen, and
aerated grit chamber. Further, all influent flow is directed to the two primary clarifiers
which are operated in parallel.
Wastewater is then stabilized in either the activated sludge treatment system or the
aerated lagoon treatment system. The activated sludge treatment system consists of
three aeration basins which are operated in parallel. Wastewater is then directed
through three secondary clarifiers operated in parallel. The second treatment system,
the aerated lagoon treatment system, consists of four lagoons operated in series.
Following treatment in the individual treatment systems, wastewater is combined and
disinfected by an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system before being discharged to the
New River.
Primary sludge generated from the primary clarifiers is pumped to two anaerobic
digesters for stabilization. Secondary sludge generated from the two of the three
secondary clarifiers is also pumped to the anaerobic digesters for stabilization.
Stabilized primary and secondary sludge is discharged from the two anaerobic digesters
to fourteen sludge drying beds. Digested sludge is dried in the sludge drying beds prior
to removal and eventual land application in Dateland, Arizona.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 74]
CITY OF CALEXICO ORDER NO. R7-2009-0018
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA7000009
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001, at Latitude 32º, 40’, 20” North
and Longitude 115º, 30’, 45” West, to the New River. The permitted m

===PLANNED CHANGES===

