[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides sewerage service to the City of
Imperial (service to a population of approximately 13,000). The wastewater treatment plant
has a treatment capacity of 2.4 MGD and is located in Section 7, T15S, R14E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The wastewater treatment plant consists of an influent pump station, mechanical sieve
screens, two parallel treatment trains, an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system, and
sludge drying beds. The Discharger completed an expansion project that increased the
Facility’s total design flow from 1.4 MGD to 2.4 MGD. The new system came on-line
January 2008. Upgrades to the treatment plant consisted of a new influent screening
mechanism, a Biolac® activated sludge basin with integrated clarifiers, a higher output
capacity ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system, and ten additional sludge drying beds.
The first treatment train (i.e., pre-existing treatment system) consists of two oxidation
ditches followed by secondary clarification. The second treatment train (i.e., treatment
system added through plant expansion) utilizes an extended aeration/activated sludge
basin (Biolac® system) with two integrated clarifiers prior to combining with the
secondary effluent from the first treatment train. The combined effluent is directed
through the UV disinfection system prior to discharge.
Waste activated sludge (WAS) is collected from the clarifiers and pumped to the drying
beds for dewatering. The return activated sludge (RAS) is collected from the clarifiers
and returned back into the biological treatment process. The scum from the Biolac
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 71]
CITY OF IMPERIAL ORDER R7-2010-0020
CITY OF IMPERIAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104400
flows back into the plant head works. The scum from the secondary clarifiers
associated with the two oxidation ditches is pumped into the drying beds for dewatering.
The dried sludge is then removed from the beds and stored in the sludge staging area
until it can be hauled off-site. The filtrate from the drying beds is conveyed through
drain lines back to the plant head works.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the
Dolson Drain. The Dolson Drain conveys the effluent to the Salton Sea via the Lilac
Drain, Rose Drain, and Alamo River, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at La

===PLANNED CHANGES===

