[Page 76]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides service to a population of
approximately 45,000 located in the City of Coachella. The wastewater treatment plant has
a treatment capacity of 4.5 MGD and is located in Section 15, T6S, R8E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The WWTP consists of a raw wastewater lift station, a headworks facility, two parallel
treatment trains, a disinfection system, and sludge drying beds.
Wastewater from the community is collected in the City’s domestic sewer collection
system and conveyed to the plant headworks facility, where the wastewater passes
through a mechanical fine screen and screenings are then removed, collected and
disposed. The current headworks configuration includes a single screen in the northern
channel, a second channel for a future screen, and a bypass channel with a manual bar
rack. After passing through the mechanical screen, raw wastewater flows into a
packaged grit chamber (i.e., a cyclone grit removal type system). The wastewater is
then split by an automated flow control structure and delivered to the activated sludge
treatment system and the oxidation ditch treatment system.
The activated sludge treatment system capacity is 1.5 MGD and consists of two process
units operated in parallel. The activated sludge treatment system consists of two
contact stabilization tanks (CSTs) that provide aeration, clarification, re-aeration, and
aerobic digestion. Raw wastewater is pumped into the contact stabilization chamber
and mixed with activated sludge. From the contact chamber, mixed liquor flows to the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 77]
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2010-0021
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104493
secondary clarifier. Clarified effluent is measured at a parshall flume, located between
the two CSTs, prior to being disinfected. Sodium hypochlorite is delivered at the inlet to
the chlorine contact basin and sodium bisulfite is added at the end of the basin.
Disinfected effluent from the activated sludge treatment system is then combined with
disinfected effluent from the oxidation ditch treatment system for discharge to the
Coachella Valley Storm Water Channel. As of February 2008, the activated sludge
treatment system has been out of service, for cleaning, maintenance, and repair; all
plant flow has been treated through the oxidation ditch treatment system. During the
NPDES Permit Compliance Evaluation Inspection (CEI) conducted December 9, 2009,
the Discharger indicated upgrades to the activated sludge treatment system (i.e., CSTs)
should be completed in 12 to 18 months. The Discharger indicated in the supplemental
application information received April 5, 2010, the proposed project design for aeration
improvements and plant upgrades includes replacement of three centrifugal blowers
with higher capacity centrifugal blowers; replacement of existing diffusers in aeration
and re-aeration tanks and the aerobic digester with new fine bubble diffusers; update
return activated sludge lift pumps with submersible pumps; update supernatant
decanters; install new submersible digested sludge wasting pumps; update hypochlorite
injectors; construct new sludge drying beds to supplement existing drying beds, and
construct a new polymer feed facility.
The oxidation ditch treatment system was completed in March 2007 and brought online
in May 2007. A State Water Board letter dated October 31, 2008 provided a Project
Performance Certification. The process is characterized as a modified extended
aeration activated sludge process with a relatively long sludge age. The tanks include a
large aeration basin and a relatively smaller anoxic zone for de-nitrification. The
process consists of the large elongated oval tanks, secondary clarifiers, and sludge
pumping facilities. Raw wastewater and return activated sludge (RAS) are delivered to
the anoxic tank and mixed with the mixed liquor; the mixed liquor then flows into the
aeration basin. A small portion of the aeration basin flow is split off and returned to the
anoxic zone to feed the secondary clarifiers; the two circular clarifiers settle and collect
sludge. The settled sludge is pulled from the bottom of the clarifier and continuously
pumped back into the oxidation ditch to maintain the mixed liquor concentration. As the
solids concentration builds in the tanks, a portion of the settled sludge is removed from
the bottom of the clarifier via sludge wasting pumps which pump the sludge to the lined
drying beds on the south end of the WWTP. Clarified effluent from the clarifier flows
through a closed pipe into the chlorine contact basins for disinfection. Sodium
hypochlorite is delivered at the inlet to the basin and sodium bisulfite is added at the end
of the basin. Flow from the chlorine contact basins passes over a weir and then travels
through a Parshall flume for effluent metering before being combined with the effluent
from the activated sludge treatment system (i.e., CSTs) for discharge.
The clarified effluent from the activated sludge treatment system (i.e., CSTs) and
oxidation ditch treatment system is disinfected separately; each treatment train using an
automated chlorine delivery system consisting of bulk sodium hypochlorite storage
tanks, a vacuum regulator, and a submersible mixer/ejector. Hypochlorite delivery is
paced on a chlorine residual monitored just downstream of the dosing point. The
chlorinated effluent travels through the serpentine contact chamber and overtops a weir
where sodium bisulfite is added to remove any remaining residual chlorine. The
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 78]
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2010-0021
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104493
bisulfite is automatically dosed based on a target residual and paced on effluent flow
rate.
Following disinfection, the effluent from the activated sludge treatment system (i.e.,
CSTs) and oxidation ditch treatment system is combined and travels through a closed
pipe under the storm channel levee along the east side of the WWTP property and is
discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the Coachella Valley
Storm Water Channel, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33º 39’ 20” North
and Longitude 116º 08’ 31” West, to the Coachella Valley Storm Water Channel. The
permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, which is 4.5 MGD. The discharge consists of disinfected
secondary treated wastewater.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in the existing Order for discharges from the oxidation
pond treatment system (in operation July 2005 through July 2007) from Discharge Point
001 (Monitoring Location EFF-001A) and representative monitoring data from the term
of the previous Order are as follows in Table F-2:
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data (Oxidation Pond
Treatment System)
Monitoring Data
Effluent Limitation
(From July 2005 – July 2007)
Highest Highest
Parameter Units Highest
Average Average Maximum Average Average
Daily
Monthly Weekly Daily Monthly Weekly
Discharge
Discharge Discharge
Flow MGD 0.9 -- -- 1.31 -- 1.82
Removal
Efficiency for
Biochemical
% 65 -- -- 703 -- --
Oxygen
Demand (BOD)
5-day at 20°C
Removal
Efficiency for
Total % 65 -- -- 70

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the supplemental application information received April 5,
2010, the proposed project design for aeration improvements and plant upgrades
includes replacement of three centrifugal blowers with higher capacity centrifugal
blowers; replacement of existing diffusers in aeration and re-aeration tanks and the
aerobic digester with new fine bubble diffusers; update return activated sludge lift
pumps with submersible pumps; update supernatant decanters; install new submersible
digested sludge wasting pumps; update hypochlorite injectors; construct new sludge
drying beds to supplement existing drying beds, and construct a new polymer feed
facility.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and
implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and chapter 5.5, divi