[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides service to the City of Imperial, service to a
population of approximately 13,000. The wastewater treatment plant has a treatment (design)
capacity of 2.4 MGD and is located in Section 7, T15S, R14E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The wastewater treatment plant consists of two parallel treatment trains and a final ultraviolet
(UV) disinfection system for the combined effluent.
Raw wastewater from the City of Imperial reaches the Facility via two main conveyance lines:
the “N” Line and the “15th Street” line to a central pump sump. The influent pump station then
transfer raw wastewater to the gravity separator, which comprises two screened horizontal
troughs that are manually cleaned. Screened materials are collected and placed in a hopper
for subsequent transport to landfill.
Train 1-Oxidation Ditch: Raw wastewater from the influent sump is pumped to Train 1-
Oxidation Ditch (OD) system via a Parshall flow meter. Train 1- OD system comprises two
oxidation ditches each followed by a round clarifier basin. The design flow for each oxidation
ditch-clarifier combination is 0.7 MGD. Return activated sludge (RAS) and waste activated
sludge (WAS) from the clarifiers are pumped to the OD inlet and to the sludge drying beds,
respectively. Any surface scum from the clarifiers is scraped off and conveyed to a “scum
pit” where the decanted liquid is pumped to the RAS line and the remaining solids are
periodically “vactored” and disposed at landfill.
Train 2–Biolac™ Activated Sludge: Screened wastewater from the influent gravity separator is
also conveyed to Train 2–Biolac™ Activated Sludge system via a lift station. The Train 2-
Biolac™ system was constructed in the 2007-08 period. Train 2-Biolac™ system comprises
an aeration basin with submerged aerators and two integral, rectangular clarifiers. The
design flow for the Biolac™ system is 1.0 MGD. Return activated sludge (RAS) and waste
activated sludge (WAS) from the clarifiers are pumped to the aeration basin inlet and to the
sludge drying beds, respectively.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 2/12/14) F-4
[Page 68]
CITY OF IMPERIAL ORDER R7-2015-0030
CITY OF IMPERIAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104400
UV Disinfection System: The treated effluent from Train 1 and Train 2 is combined just before
the entry point to the UV disinfection system. The UV system comprises of one channel
equipped with two racks in series of Trojan 3000 Plus equipment (open channel) and is sized
for a 3 MGD flow.
Disinfected wastewater is conveyed to Discharge Point 001 via an approximately 1,200 feet
long open ditch to the confluence of Dolson Drain and two other field drains that connect at
the same location via an irrigation drain water pump (li

===PLANNED CHANGES===

