[Page 0]
3. MUESD is currently constructing three new evaporation/percolation ponds to dispose of
treated domestic wastewater. The new ponds will have a combined area of 112,500
square feet (2.57 acres) and a total design disposal capacity of 0.015 million gallons per
day (MGD). The ponds are located south of the campus as shown in Attachment B,
incorporated herein and made part of this Board Order by this reference.
Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
4. The current total design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant is 0.015 MGD. The
treatment system consists of a lift station and two distinct packaged treatment units that
operate in series. The first packaged treatment unit includes flow equalization, an aeration
tank, and secondary clarification. The second packaged treatment unit includes dual
media filtration and UV disinfection. Wastewater is pumped from the lift station via one of
two 3-inch submersible sewage pumps into a 5,000-gallon flow equalization tank, where it
1
[Page 1]
McCabe Union School District Board Order R7-2015-0050
WWTP Disposal Ponds Waste Discharge Requirements
is mixed with return activated sludge under anoxic conditions to encourage denitrification.
The blended influent wastewater is then transferred via an airlift pipe into a 15,592-gallon
extended aeration tank, where nitrification takes place. Following aeration, the stabilized
wastewater (mixed liquor) then flows into a 3,758-gallon circular secondary clarifier, where
the mixed liquor suspended solids are settled and recirculated back to the flow
equalization tank. The effluent flows over the clarifier’s weirs for treatment by two dual
media (sand/anthracite) gravity filters, which are stationed in parallel. Filtered effluent then
passes through an ultraviolet light disinfection system, which is comprised of two separate
modules (one is used as a lead unit and the other is available as a standby unit).
Biosolids are dried in drying beds prior to disposal. Wastewater will be discharged to one
of three evaporation/percolation ponds located south of the campus. Attachment B
provides a site layout of the Facility. The WWTP treatment process is illustrated in the
Process Flow Schematic diagram (Attachment C) incorporated herein and made part of
this Board Order by this reference.
5. The Discharger’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMR) from September 2011 through August
2015 characterize the WWTP performance as follows:
Influent
20o C BOD 1 444 mg/L2
5
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 693 mg/L
Effluent
Flow 0.004096 MGD3
20o C BOD 6.8 mg/L
5
TS

===PLANNED CHANGES===

