[Page 97]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Avalon Wastewater Treatment Facility located on Pebbly Beach Road, near the
southeastern coastal tip of Santa Catalina Island, Los Angeles County, California. The
Avalon WTF treats municipal wastewater, which is a mixture of fresh and salt water,
from domestic and commercial sources. Since seawater is used for toilet flushing in the
City of Avalon, the waste flow to the Avalon WTF contains approximately 40 to 50% salt
water. In addition, to protect water quality in Avalon Bay, the Avalon WTF also treats
dry weather surface runoff and a portion of the first flush of stormwater, which are
pumped from the storm drain to the Avalon WTF via a low flow diversion system. There
are approximately 3,800 people in its service area. The Facility has an average dry
weather design treatment capacity of 1.2 millions gallons per day (mgd). In 2006, the
annual average discharge from the Facility was 0.45 mgd, with a maximum daily flow
rate of 0.73 mgd. The treated wastewater is discharged into the Pacific Ocean, a water
of the United States, through an ocean outfall (Discharge Point 001) off Pebbly Beach.
Wastewater treatment at the Avalon WTF consists of a rotating screen for removal of
large particles, a trickling filter and activated sludge reactors for removal of organics,
clarifiers for separation of solids, and a chlorination system. The effluent is partially
chlorinated with the addition of sodium hypochlorite solution to maintain consistent
compliance with the receiving water bacterial standards. Chlorine concentration is up to
2 mg/L in the effluent at the entrance to the chlorine contact chamber. Solids separated
at the rotating screen are sent to a landfill. Waste sludge from the activated sludge
reactors is aerobically digested, dewatered in a centrifuge, and dried in sludge drying
beds before being hauled to a landfill. The trickling filter is only used during summer,
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted Version: May 1, 2008) F-4
[Page 98]
CITY OF AVALON ORDER NO. R4-2008-0028
AVALON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054372
when part of the influent is passed through the trickling filter to increase the dissolved
oxygen content of the wastewater.
In 2003 and 2004 the sludge drying beds were expanded and improved with concrete.
In 2005 the Catherine lift station was completely refit with new pumps and controls,
piping and valves, as well as a new stainless steel pan for the dry side of the station. In
2006 the Pebbly Beach lift station was completely refit with new pumps and controls,
piping, valves and concrete repair and epoxy coating in the wet well. In 2006 the
Influent Headworks was refit with 2 new rotating screens and the Trickling Filter was
refit with new pumps, valves, piping and nozzles. In 2006 the Digesters had all the
severely spalled concrete removed and replaced as well as epoxy coated to prevent
further deterioration. The pipe supports were replaced in the Digesters as well.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The secondary treated wastewater is discharged through the ocean outfall off Pebbly
Beach at approximately half way between the Avalon WTF and Avalon Bay. The
description of the outfall is as follows:
Discharge Point 001
Diameter of Pipe at Discharge Terminus (feet) 1
Outfall Distance Offshore (feet) 400
Discharge Depth Below Surface Water (feet)

===PLANNED CHANGES===

