[Page 5]
The Oak Shores Development CSA-7a collection system includes manholes and
cleanouts which are typically underwater. The County conducts annual dye-testing for
leak testing. They also utilize flow data to confirm there is no significant stormwater
inflow during wet weather or high lake level conditions.
A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal
system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Secondary Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
The average monthly design flow is 100,000 gallons per
Design Flows
day
Headworks/Preliminary The headworks consists of a flow meter and an influent
Treatment manual bar screen
Secondary Treatment: Wastewater is treated two 400,000
gallon circular aerated treatment ponds which are
Treatment
operated in series followed by a 1.62-million-gallon
maturation/polishing pond
Disinfection1 NA
Effluent Storage NA
Effluent wastewater is pumped to two spray field ponds
prior to application to the spray fields. The ponds are 1.8
miles from the treatment plant, the Upper Pond has a
Disposal
storage volume of 1,319,689 gallons and a surface area of
53,766 sf. The Lower Pond has a storage volume of
2,645,656 gallons with a surface area of 55,355 sf
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and NA
Handling
- 2 -
[Page 6]
WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
San Luis Obispo County Public Works Department must operate the facility in
accordance with the General Order and this notice of applicability.4 The facility’s
secondary treatment includes two in-line aeration ponds followed by a polishing pond.
San Luis Obispo County Public Works Department must operate the wastewater
treatment system to comply with the effluent limits below.
A. Effluent limits
San Luis Obispo County Public Works Department must comply with the site-specific
limits listed in Table 3.
Table 3. Wastewater Limits for Wastewater Ponds
Point of Sample
Constituent Unit Limit
Compliance Location1
Flow (monthly
gpd 100,000 Effluent IS-1
average)
Effluent after
Total Suspended
mg/L -- aerations ES-1
Solids (TSS)
ponds
Five-Day
Effluent after
Biochemical
mg/L 90 aerations ES-1
Oxygen Demand
ponds
(BOD )
5
%
Effluent
Influent
Total N 50% below root ES-1
versus
zone
Effluent
1 Refer to monitoring and reporting program for sampling locations
GROUNDWATER LIMITS
As stated in the General Permit, Section C, the discharge must not pollute groundwater
or surface waters, adversely affect beneficial uses of groundwater, or cause an
exceedance of Basin Plan water quality objectives. Specifically, San

[Page 13]
4. POND SYSTEM MONITORING
4.1 Influent Monitoring
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of
the wastewater and flow rate. At a minimum, influent monitoring shall consist of the
following:
Table 4. Influent Monitoring
Sample Sample Reporting
Constituent Units
Type Frequency Frequency
Flow Rate a gpd Meter Continuous Semi Annually
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L Grab Monthly Semi Annually
Total Suspended Solids Monthly Semi Annually
(TSS) mg/L Grab
Total Nitrogen (as N) mg/L Grab Monthly Semi Annually
Nitrate mg/L Grab Monthly Semi Annually
gpd denotes gallons per day.
mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
- 3 -
[Page 14]
Oak Shores Development CSA-7a MRP September 16, 2022
4.2 Wastewater Pond Monitoring
All wastewater and treated wastewater storage ponds (lined and unlined) shall be
monitored as specified below:
Table 5. Pond Monitoring
Sample Reporting
Constituent Units Sample Type
Frequency Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Monthly Semi Annually
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Monthly Semi Annually
Odors -- Observation Monthly Semi Annually
Berm condition -- Observation Monthly Semi Annually
mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
4.3 Effluent Monitoring
Effluent samples shall be taken from a location that provides rep

===PLANNED CHANGES===

