[Page 3]
6. Disposal Area
Discharge to areas other than the designated leachfield disposal areas shown in Figure
2 and Figure 3 of Attachment 2 is prohibited. Since County CSA #7 operates (and the
County will soon own) leachfields for both the Big Basin and Boulder Creek Golf and
Country Club facilites, the County may dispose of wastewater at either location.
7. Responsible Party
County of Santa Cruz is responsible for the management and disposal of the
wastewater in compliance with the conditions of the General Permit. Any
noncompliance with this General Permit constitutes a violation of the California Water
Code and sub

[Page 7]
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
2.1. In August 2020, a significant portion of the residential community homes served
by the WWTP and portions of the WWTP were damaged or destroyed in the
CZU lighting complex wildfire. The WWTP suffered a long-term loss of power,
and several vital pieces of process and transmission equipment were
destroyed.
2.2. The WWTP is a package activated sludge plant with a design capacity of 35,000
gallons per day. The treatment system consists of solids screening, blowers,
effluent collection compartment, remote alarms, and pump systems. Treated
effluent is directed to an effluent tank before being pumped to leachfields for
subsurface disposal. A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A
facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
- 2 -
[Page 8]
Big Basin WWTP June 28, 2024
Attachment 1
Table 2. Activated Sludge Treatment, Disposal Technologies, and Capacity
Design Flows Influent Daily Maximum Flow 10,000 gallons per day
Treatment Activated Sludge treatment system
Disposal Leachfield subsurface disposal system
After the improvements scheduled for June or July of
Biosolids/Sludge 2024, solids will be collected onsite via a 5,000-gallon tank
Production and and hauled from the plant and disposed of at the County of
Handling Santa Cruz transmission line facility at East Cliff Station
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
County of Santa Cruz must operate the

[Page 8]
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
County of Santa Cruz must operate the facility in accordance with the General Permit4
and this notice of applicability.5 County of Santa Cruz must operate the activated sludge
treatment system to comply with the effluent limits below.
3.1. Effluent Limits
3.1.1. County of Santa Cruz must comply with the site-specific limits listed in
Table 3.
Table 3. Wastewater Limits for activated sludge treatment systems
Constituent Unit Limit Point of Compliance1
9,000 maximum monthly
Influent
Flow gpd3 average flow2
(IS-1)
10,000 maximum daily flow
Effluent after activated
Total Suspended 30 (monthly average)
mg/L4 sludge treatment (ES-
Solids (TSS) 45 (7-day average)
1)
Five-Day
Effluent after activated
Biochemical 30 (monthly average)
mg/L sludge treatment (ES-
Oxygen Demand 45 (7-day averag

===PLANNED CHANGES===

