[Page 28]
6. Comment: In-plant return flows will be a frequent occurrence throughout the period of
this permit as the District undertakes a major Capital Improvement Program to upgrade
secondary treatment facilities, replace the Plant No. 2 headwork’s, and make many other
significant changes to the facility. In order to assist the District in completing these
activities while properly accounting for all influent flows and constituents, the District
requests the addition of the following language to the end of Paragraph B.1 of the
M&RP: “In the event that in-plant return flows are unavoidable upstream of the influent
sampling point, the disch

[Page 30]
13. Comment: Have OCSD and the Regional Board failed to act properly relative to
handling the sewage liquids and solids produced by the residents and businesses of
Orange County?
California Environmental Protection Agency
Recycled Paper
[Page 31]
Messrs. Colston, Schulz, and Van Drie - 10 - September 14, 2004
Response: Prior to this permit reissuance, the discharger has operated under an NPDES
permit/Waste Discharge Requirements issued jointly by EPA and the Regional Board that
incorporated a variance from federal secondary treatment standards for five-day
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD ) and suspended solids (SS), authorized under CWA
5
section 301(h). OCSD has maintained an excellent overall record of compliance with
these requirements, which were considered at public meetings convened by EPA and the
Regional Board. Apart from these meetings, OCSD has engaged in an extensive public
information and outreach effort in support of its development of a strategic plan for the
rehabilitation and improvement of its treatment facilities. In 1999, the OCSD adopted a
comprehensive 20-year master plan for capital facilities, including expansion and
rehabilitation, entitled “OCSD Strategic Plan”. Four years later, in conjunction with the
OCSD Board of Directors’ 2002 decision to achieve federal secondary treatment
standards, OCSD adopted the “Interim Strategic Plan Update”, a comprehensive revision
to the strategic plan. This strategic plan update addressed the additional needs for
refurbishing, rehabilitation, and new construction, in order to provide adequate facilities
to upgrade the effluent treatment level to secondary treatment standards. This update is
the basis for the discharger’s December 2002 NPDES permit renewal application.
On December 2, 2002, the discharger submitted a timely NPDES permit renewal
application reflecting the OCSD Board of Directors’ July 17, 2002 decision to withdraw
the discharger’s CWA section 301(h) variance and achieve federal secondary treatment
standards at the earliest possible date. The application states that end-of-permit design
BOD and SS removal rates are 76 percent and 85 percent, respectively, and that the
5
effluent is chlorinated and dechlorinated prior to discharge through the ocean outfall.
End-of-permit design flow rates are 316 MGD of primary treated wastewater and 200
MGD of secondary treated wastewater.
OCSD convened a panel of experts to review OCSD’s strategic plan to achieve
compliance with federal secondary treatment standards by 2012. This panel agreed that
the proposed program is an aggressive and ambitious one, and that compliance prior to
2012 could not reasonably be achieved.
As described in the permit fact sheet and permit findings, the draft Order and permit
contain effluent limitations based upon federal secondary treatment standards, as required
by 40 CFR 125.3 and 40 CFR 133. The EPA and Regional Board also expect that, in
addition to a State-issued time schedule order, compliance with secondary treatment
requirements governing the OCSD discharge will be addressed by a complaint to be filed
and a consent decree to be lodged shortly after the effective date of this Order and permit.
The EPA and Regional Board expect that the consent decree will establish the schedule
by which OCSD will complete the planning, design, construction, and operation of
facilities necessary to attain compliance with secondary treatment requirements in the
Order and permit, and will establish interim effluent limits for BOD and TSS. Pursuant
5
to 28 CFR 50.7, the public will be given notice and an opportunity to comment upon the
consent decree before it becomes effective.
California Environmental Protection Agency
Recycled Paper
[Page 32]
Messrs. Colston, Schulz, and Van Drie - 11 - September 14, 2004
14. Comment: The NPDES perm

===PLANNED CHANGES===

