[Page 56]
The CCSD treatment plant underwent major construction upgrades in 1977 and was
designed to discharge to Grist Creek during wet weather periods and to store treated
wastewater during dry periods, when discharges to the Eel River and its tributaries are
prohibited. The treatment facility was designed with a flow metering flume, bar screen and
comminutor, two lined oxidation ponds that can be operated in series or parallel, two lined
holding ponds, gravity sand filters, and chlorination/dechlorination capability. The facility
was designed to treat an average flow of 80,000 gallons per day and a peak wet weather
influent flow of 384,000 gallons per day. Maximum capacities for the primary and
secondary oxidation ponds are 4.7 and 2.2 million gallons, respectively. From October 2002
through September 2003, influent flows to the treatment plant ranged from 1.1 to 6.6 million
gallons per month and averaged 2.7 million gallons per month (90,000 gpd).
Due to high rates of evaporation and percolation during treatment, the treatment facility has
not discharged directly to Grist Creek during the term of Order No. R1-2000-16.
Percolation from treatment and holding ponds is attributed to cracks in pond linings, as well
as damage to clay linings due to erosion and rodent attack. Because of excessive
percolation, an on-site fresh water supply is unable to keep the ponds underwater throughout
the year. Elevation of wastewater in the ponds corresponds directly with the elevation of
local ground water.
Most equipment at the treatment facility is at least 25 years old. The existing headworks
structure is small with inadequate space for maintenance of the comminutor and raking of
the bar screen. The Discharger has determined that percolation from the primary oxidation
pond (Pond No. 1) occurs at a rate of approximately 0.6 inches per day [60,000 gallons per
day (gpd)] during high water levels (January through May) and at less than 0.30 inches per
day (23,000 gallons per day) in October. The secondary oxidation pond (Pond No. 2) is the
oldest component of the treatment facility and was not relined in 1977. The oxidation ponds
discharge to the holding ponds only during wet seasons, and when such discharges occur,
wastewater typically percolates from the holding ponds before discharge to Grist Creek is
necessary. The sand filters are in a state of disrepair and the chlorination/dechlorination
system is not is use.
The wastewater treatment facility currently receives septage on a regular basis and charges
for this service based on self-monitoring by the septage haulers. Septage is discharged to a
manhole upstream of the influent pumping station or directly to Oxidation Pond No. 1.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 57]
Covelo Community Services District
Order No. R1-2006-0007
NPDES No. CA0023574
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The area of the Covelo Community Services District is located within the Upper Eel River
Basin and is drained by Mill Creek, a tributary to the Middle Fork Eel River. Short, Town,
Grist, and Turner Creeks drain into Mill Creek. The wastewater treatment facility is located
adjacent to Town Creek with a discharge pipe just downstream from the confluence of Grist
and Town Creeks.
Treated wastewater from the facility’s holding ponds can be delivered to the sand filters by
two pumps, designed to alternate operation and rated at 400 gpm each. The facility’s design
provided for chlorination to take place at Discharge Manhole No.1 following filtration. A
16 inch pipe between Manhole Nos. 1 and 2 provides chlorine contact time, and sulfur
dioxide is applied in solution for dechlorination at Discharge Manhole No. 2. The outfall to
Grist Creek is located just downstream of the dechlorination manhole below the creek bank.
Grist Creek is a wet weather seasonal tributary to Mill Creek and ultimately to the Middle
Fork Eel River.
Because the facility’s oxidation and holding ponds are located adjacent to Grist and Town
Creeks, and because local ground water is found in saturated conditions near to the ground
surface in coarse, alluvial (permeable) deposits; and because water elevations in the ponds
correspond directly to seasonal variations in surface water flow and with the elevation of
ground water, the Regional Water Board views shallow ground water in the area of the
treatment facility as hydrologically connected to Grist and/or Town Creeks. Discharges to
ground water, intentional or not, are therefore viewed as discharges to surface water in these
circumstances and are subject to all r

===PLANNED CHANGES===

