[Page 3]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter Regional
Water Board), finds:
A. Background. The Redway Community Services District (hereinafter Discharger) is currently
discharging under Order No. R1-2000-19 and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) Permit No. CA0022781, adopted on February 24, 2000. The Discharger submitted a
Report of Waste Discharge, dated February 16, 2005, and applied for a NPDES permit renewal
to discharge up to 0.19 million gallons per day as ADWF and 0.580 million gallons per day as
Peak Wet Weather Flow of disinfected, secondary treated wastewater from the Redway
Wastewater Treatment Facility, hereinafter Facility. Supplemental information was requested
from the Discharger on November 15, 2005 and received on December 15, 2005.The application
was deemed complete on date January 25, 2006.
B. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates a secondary municipal wastewater
treatment facility, associated collection system, and disposal facilities. The Facility serves a
population of approximately 1,500, primarily residential, connections within the Community of
Redway. The treatment system consists of a 300,000-gallon capacity oxidation ditch,
clarification, and a chlorination/declorination system. Disinfected, secondary effluent is
discharged to the Eel River, during the period September 15 to May 15 in accordance with the
seasonal prohibitions presented in the Basin Plan. Discharge to the Eel River, a water of the
United States, occurs within the Benbow HSA of the Eel River Hydrologic Unit. From May 16
to September 30 treated, disinfected effluent is discharged to upland percolations ponds.
Sludge solids are decanted to drying beds at the Facility. Dried sludge is buried in trenches on
the wooded property owned by the Discharger north of the Facility. Provision VI.C.2 of this
Order requires the Discharger to evaluate, and propose alternatives to, its current sludge disposal
method. Attachment B provides a topographic map of the area around the Facility. Attachment
C provides a flow schematic of the Facility.
C. Legal A

===PLANNED CHANGES===

