[Page 67]
Wastewater Treatment
Construction of the original wastewater treatment facility was completed in 1958 with a
capacity of 2.5 million gallons per day (mgd) average dry weather flow and 10.5 mgd peak
wet-weather flow. The original plant consisted of a headworks facility (one barminutor and
four influent pumps), pre-aeration grit tanks, one primary clarifier, one trickling filter, one
secondary clarifier, a chlorine contact pipe, two anaerobic digesters, two
oxidation/percolation ponds, and two sludge lagoons. The plant was modified in 1983 to
increase plant capacity to 2.8 mgd average dry weather flow and a maximum wet weather
discharge flow of 7.0 mgd and with the construction of additional clarifiers, biological
tower, new chlorine contact pipe and dechlorination facilities, emergency generator facilities
and a new direct outfall; in 1986 to add a third percolation pond; in 1989 to add an effluent
pumping station; and in 1995 to modify the headworks, add a fourth secondary clarifier, and
to add a new advanced wastewater treatment (AWT) system and new solids handling
facility. Also, in 1983, an earthen berm was constructed to provide 100-year flood
protection for the WWTF.
The Facility produces disinfected secondary effluent for discharge to the three percolation
ponds and disinfected, dechlorinated AWT effluent for direct discharge to the Russian
River. The current wastewater treatment train consists of grit removal, primary
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 68]
City of Ukiah
Ukiah Wastewater Treatment Facility
ORDER NO. R1-2006-0049
NPDES NO. CA0022888
sedimentation, trickling filters, secondary sedimentation, and chlorination; AWT facilities
consisting of coagulation, and filtration; post-AWT chlorination, and dechlorination; and
solids handling facilities consisting of anaerobic digesters and a belt press for dewatering.
All treated wastewater is chlorinated prior to disposal. Chlorination of secondary effluent
occurs in a 600-foot long 8-foot diameter underground pipeline. The AWT chlorination
facility consists of two concrete-lined aboveground baffled basins. The Facility has the
ability to dechlorinate disinfected effluent prior to discharging to the Russian River. The
discharge capacity of the outfall is 7 mgd.
The Facility upgrade project started in the spring of 2006 and will be completed by June
2009. The project will occur in stages so that the existing facility may continue to operate in
compliance with WDRs. The facility upgrade project includes the following components: a
new head works facility which includes a new influent pumping station, bar screen facility
and grit removal system; conversion of the existing secondary clarifiers to primary clarifiers;
new trickling filter pumping station; modifications to the trickling filter distribution arms;
conversion of the existing primary clarifiers to solids contact tanks along with the
installation of new blowers; new secondary clarifiers; modifications to the chlorine contact
pipe and chlorination facilities (new chemical addition and mixing facilities); repairs to the
AWT pump pad, AWT chlorine contact basin, and washwater recovery ponds; new
dissolved air flotation thickeners; improvements to the existing sludge digesters, including
conversion of the floating covers on the anaerobic digesters to fixed covers and
modifications to the piping and gas management system; and a new operations building.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The City of Ukiah Wastewater Treatment Facility is located in the Upper Russian River
Hydrologic Basin (Ukiah Hydrologic Subarea).
The Facility is located adjacent to the Russian River and has three percolation ponds with a
combined storage capacity of 115 million gallons. The City can dispose up to 4.01 mgd via
the percolation ponds. Percolation pond 1 is 14.7 acres and has a design percolation rate of
50,000 gpd per acre. Percolation pond 2 is 14.7 acres and has a design percolation rate of
80,000 gpd per acre. Percolation pond 3 is 12.4 acres and has a design percolation rate of
175,000 gpd per acre. These ponds are maintained to maximize percolation by alternately
ripping the bottom of one pond each summer to increase the ponds’ permeability. The
ponds’ bottoms slope toward the river.
The Facility also has an outfall pipe which is used to discharge disinfected, dechlorinated
AWT effluent directly to the Russian River during the wet-weather season (October 1
through May 14) The Discharger preferentially discharges disinfected secondary effluent to
its percolation ponds and utilizes its AWT facilities and outfall as needed to balance flows.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 69]
City of Ukiah
Ukiah Wastewater Treatment Facility
ORDER NO. R1-2006-0049
NPDES NO. CA0022888
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
The existing Order contains effluent limitations for direct discharges to the Russian River
(Discharge Point 001) and for discharges to percolation ponds adjacent to the Russian River
(Discharge Point 002). Effluent limitations contained in the existing Order No. 99-65 for
discharges from Discharge Points 001 and 002 and representative monitoring data from the
term of the previous Order are presented below.
Discharge Point 001
Parameter Effluent Limitations Monitoring Data
(units) (From January 2000 – To December 2005)
Average Average Maximum Dail

[Page 70]
D. Compliance Summary
As discussed in section II.A. of this Fact Sheet, the City of Ukiah wastewater treatment
facility was originally completed in 1958. Although the City has expanded and upgraded
the Facility over the years, many of the original components of the original plant are still
in use. Due to the age of most of the facilities and a lack of redundancy of key process
units, this plant has experienced equipment breakdowns over the years that have
contributed to occasional violations of effluent limitations. The City’s wastewater
treatment plant operators and its engineering firm have worked very hard to maintain
compliance with its permit.
The City disposes of the majority of its effluent via its percolation ponds and disposes to
these ponds year-round. The City disposes its effluent directly to the Russian River in the
wintertime only as needed to maintain its water balance.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 71]
City of Ukiah
Ukiah Wastewater Treatment Facility
ORDER NO. R1-2006-0049
NPDES NO. CA0022888
During the period of January 2000 through December 2005, the City had only one
violation of effluent limitations at Discharge Point 001, the direct discharge to the
Russian River. This occurred on December 26, 2002 when the acute toxicity test result
was 10% survival. In January 2006, due to extreme rainfall and flood conditions, the
City discharged disinfected, secondary effluent from the percolation ponds directly to the
Russian River as an emergency measure to protect the integrity of its percolation pond
dikes.
As summarized in the table in section C. above, this Facility has violated effluent
limitations for BOD, NFR and coliform at Discharge Point 002, the discharge to the
percolation ponds. The majority of the violations occurred in the year 2000. The City
began implementing interim measures to improve plant performance and provide
additional capacity while they evaluated a long-term upgrade project. The City has
implemented various interim measures to achieve permit compliance, including placing a
hold on new connections to the WWTF, repairing structures that have broken, use of
chemically enhanced primary treatment to increase performance of the trickling filters,
and implementation of other operational modifications.
Occasional violations have occurred since 2000, primarily in response to equipment
failures and the need to take crucial processes off-line for repairs (e.g., in July 2004,
structural damage to the primary clarifiers required that the clarifiers be off-line during
repairs).
E. Planned Changes
The City began construction on its wastewater treatment plant upgrade project (described in
section II.B of this Fact Sheet) during the spring of 2006 and plans to complete the project
by June 2009. The City has also evaluated other potential projects that may be implemented
in the future, including the development of a collection system master pla

===PLANNED CHANGES===

