[Page 4]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Background. The City of Santa Rosa (hereinafter Discharger) is currently discharging
under Order No. 2000-03 and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) Permit No. CA0022764, adopted on March 15, 2000. The Discharger
submitted a Report of Waste Discharge, dated September 15, 2004 and applied for an
NPDES permit renewal to discharge up to 21.34 MGD, Average Dry Weather Flow
(ADWF) of treated wastewater from the City of Santa Rosa Subregional Water
Reclamation System (hereinafter Subregional System). The application was deemed
complete on March 15, 2005.
B. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the Subregional System, a
Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) that consists of a wastewater collection
system, wastewater treatment facility (WWTF), effluent disposal system, and water
recycling facilities. In addition to the wastewater collection system owned and operated
by the Discharger, satellite wastewater collection systems individually owned, operated
and maintained by the Cities of Cotati, Rohnert Park, and Sebastopol convey
wastewater from those communities to the WWTF.
The WWTF consists of grit removal in aerated grit chambers, sludge and scum removal
in primary sedimentation tanks, biological secondary treatment (activated sludge) with
alum coagulation, flocculation, and clarification followed by tertiary filtration and
ultraviolet light disinfection that meet Title 22 guidelines. Biosolids generated during the
treatment process are thickened, anaerobically digested, dewatered using belt filters
and polymer addition, and beneficially used as soil amendment. Wastewater is
discharged from Discharge Points 003, 006A, 006B, 012A, 012B, 014, and 015 (see
table on cover page) to the Laguna de Santa Rosa and its tributaries, waters of the
United States and tributary to the Russian River within the Russian River Hydrologic
Unit (114.00) and its tributaries. Storm water falling within the confines of the
composting facility is returned to the treatment facility headworks. The treatment facility
currently operates under a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan. Attachment B
provides a topographic map of the area around the facility. Attachment C provides a
flow schematic of the facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Clean
Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the United States
Environmental Prot

===PLANNED CHANGES===

