[Page 86]
Ocean.
Order No. 01-95 prohibited the direct discharge of tertiary treated wastewater to
surface waters, except for the two reservoirs, Rattlesnake and Sand Canyon.
During dry weather, when the recycled water demand is high, the Discharger treats
all the wastewater generated within its service area and delivers all treated
wastewater to its recycled water users.
b. Groundwater Dewatering.
The MWRP is located adjacent to the San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh and San
Diego Creek. The groundwater elevation at the Facility site is high. Consequently,
dewatering of the shallow groundwater zone is necessary to protect in-ground
facilities. The area is dewatered through a network of shallow zone wells with two
separate discharge points, either into Reach 1 of San Diego Creek or into the San
Joaquin Freshwater Marsh. This Order also regulates the discharges from the
groundwater dewatering activities.
[Page 87]
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. R8-2007-0003
Michelson Water Reclamation Plant NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F - Fact Sheet Page F-7
2. Design Characteristics
The Facility consists of the following treatment processes:
Table 2. MWRP Treatment Processes
Preliminary Primary
Secondary Treatment Tertiary Treatment
Treatment Treatment
Activated sludge treatment using
diffused aeration basins and
Addition of Alum prior to filtration.
secondary clarifiers. Activated
Primary Conventional down flow dual media
sludge process can be operated
In-line channel clarifiers, flow filters, chlorination. Potassium
either in carbonaceous or
grinders equalization hydroxide pH adjustment capability
nitrification/denitrification modes.
basins is provided to regulate pH as
Nitrification/denitrification mode uses
needed.
methanol augmented anoxic zone at
the head of the aeration system
The treatment design capacity of MWRP is 18 mgd. Treated wastewater flows at
MWRP for the last three years are listed below:
Table 3. Treated Wastewater at MWRP
Produced, Annual
Design Capacity,
Year Average Daily Flow,
MGD
MGD
2004 18 12.2
2005 18 12.4
2006 18 12.3
Attachment B provides a map of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C provides a treatment flow schematic for this Facil

===PLANNED CHANGES===

