[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant and
associated collection system and disposal facilities. The Facility serves approximately
7,000 residential, commercial, and institutional users in the City of Fortuna and 4,000
residential users in the Rohnerville-Campton Heights Area. The current wastewater
treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, influent pumping, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge processes, secondary sedimentation, chlorination, de-
chlorination, as well as anaerobic biosolids digestion, dewatering and composting.
The entire treatment plant site slopes to the Southwest. Storm water that falls on the site
drains to the equalization ponds. At low flow periods, storm drainage is returned to the
wastewater treatment process for treatment before it is discharged.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is currently designed to treat an average dry-weather flow (ADWF) of 1.5
mgd and reports an influent peak wet weather flow (PWWF) capacity of 7.0 mgd. Peak
influent flows over 3-4 mgd are bypassed to three equalization ponds and returned for
treatment during low flow periods.
The solids handling facilities are designed to accommodate the approved General Plan
buildout with a capacity of 1.9 mgd. Biosolids generated during the treatment process
are thickened, anaerobically digested and dewatered using a belt filter press. The
dewatered biosolids are currently stored up to one year on-site and land applied in
accordance with EPA 503 requirements once each year. A portion of the biosolids are
composted to Class A requirements, the remainder are Class B as a result of anaerobic
digestion.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 68]
ORDER NO. R1-2007-0007
City of Fortuna
NPDES NO. CA0022730
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The City of Fortuna is located within the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel
River Hydrologic Area within the Eel River Hydrologic Unit. The wastewater treatment
plant is located along Strongs Creek near the confluence of the Eel River. Wintertime
surface water discharges from Discharge Point 001 located at latitude 40º, 35’, 34” N
longitude 124 º, 09’, 30” W enter into Strongs Creek, just upstream of the confluence with
the Eel River. Historically, discharge to the percolation ponds adjacent to the facility at the
confluence of Strongs Creek and the Eel River has been identified as Discharge Point 001
in conjunction with direct discharges to surface water, which enter Strongs Creek. Effluent
limitations for surface water and land discharges differ in Order No. R1-2007-0007 and
land discharges are not subject to the same regulations as discharges to inland surface
waters and waters of the United States. Therefore, for clarity, as of the effective date of
this permit, discharges to the percolation ponds shall be identified with Discharge Point
No. 003.
Previous Order No. R1-2001-41 permitted discharge of disinfected and dechlorinated
effluent from Discharge Point 002 into Strongs Creek from the “holding/oxidation ponds”
under prolonged storm conditions. Oxidation Ponds also known as stabilization ponds or
lagoons can be used for simple secondary treatment of sewage effluents. Within an
oxidation pond heterotrophic bacteria degrade organic matter in the sewage which results
in production of cellular material and minerals. The production of these supports the
growth of algae in the oxidation pond. Growth of algal populations allows further
decomposition of the organic matter by producing oxygen. The production of this oxygen
replenishes the oxygen used by the heterotrophic bacteria. Typically, oxidation ponds
need to be less than 10 feet deep in order to support the algal growth. In addition, the use
of oxidation ponds is largely restricted to warmer climate regions because they are
strongly influenced by seasonal temperature changes. Oxidation ponds also tend to fill,
due to the settling of the bacterial and algal cells formed during the decomposition of the
sewage. Overall, oxidation ponds tend to be inefficient and require large holding capacities
and long retention times. The degradation is relatively slow and the effluents containing
the oxidized products need to be periodically removed from the ponds. Regional Water
Board staff’s current technical evaluation of the holding ponds indicates that consistent
secondary treatment is unlikely given the configuration and intermittent operation of this
portion of the facility. Under current conditions, this portion of the facility appears to
provide flow equalization, which assists operations during the storm season.
Records show that discharges from Discharge Point 002 occurred only once over a two
week period since adoption of Order No. R1-2001-41 and resulted in a total of four
violations, nearly 20 percent, of the total number of effluent violations documented since
April 2001. Future dependence upon the equalization ponds should diminish upon
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 69]
ORDER NO. R1-2007-0007
City of Fortuna
NPDES NO. CA0022730
effective implementation of the current statewide collection system inspection and
maintenance requirements identified under Provision VI.C.5.a of Order R1-2007-0007.
Although mentioned in the supplemental facility description received on February 2, 2007,
the Discharger’s application for permit renewal did not specify Discharge Point 002 as a
requested outfall on EPA Form 3510-2A. The Regional Water Board may consider re-
opening this permit if the Discharger submits a complete application for discharge from
Discharge Point 002. A complete application must include the engineered design, and a
technical description of treatment processes and operation of the equalization ponds that
documents that secondary treatment standards can be met in effluent from that outfall.
The main tributaries to the main stem of the Eel River are the South Fork Eel, the
Middle Fork Eel, the North Fork Eel, the Van Duzen River, Outlet, Yager, Larabee, Bull
and Salmon Creeks. The upper watershed is mountainous and vegetated by redwood,
douglas fir interspersed with some hardwoods and meadows. Toward the coast, the
river spreads out on a coastal plain where the Salt River joins it in the Eel River estuary.
The Eel River is designated as a Critical Coastal Area.
The Eel River is also listed in the Federal Clean Water Act (CWA) section 303(d) list as
impaired for sediment and temperature. The Eel River Watershed Management Area
(WMA) encompasses roughly 3,684 square miles in highly erodible soils in the steep
coastal moun

===PLANNED CHANGES===

