[Page 76]
2. Treatment at the Pomona WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated sludge
treatment, secondary clarification, filtration, chlorination and dechlorination. Although the
plant is configured with a backwash equalization system, it is rarely used. Treated
wastewater discharged to the South Fork San Jose Creek is dechlorinated.
3. Sodium hypochlorite is added to the nitrified filtered secondary treated effluent to form
chloramines by reacting with ammonia that is either already present or added to the
effluent. The chloramines inactivate bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and minimize the
formation of total trihalomethanes (TTHMs).. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added
to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
4. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal occurs, under Order No. R4-2011-0151 (NPDES No. CA0053813.
Attachment C is a schematic of the Pomona WRP wastewater flow.
5. The biological nutrient removal system at the Pomona WRP with nitrogen de-nitrification
process (NDN) complies with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The system was
completed and has been in operation since September 2003.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Pomona WRP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial wastewater to the
South Fork San Jose Creek, tributary to the San Gabriel River, waters of the Uni

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Pomona WRP’s treatment system had been upgraded in the past to nitrify and de-nitrify
the effluent for ammonia-nitrogen and nitrate-nitrogen removal. However, there are no major
planned upgrades proposed by the Permittee. In May 2011 a new effluent flow meter was
installed. In 2013, upgrades to the filter effluent pump station electrical system were
completed.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the