[Page 97]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Pomona WRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment
plant located at 295 Humane Way, Pomona, California. Attachment B shows the location
of the plant. The Pomona WRP currently receives wastewater from the cities of of
Claremont, Diamond Bar, La Verne, Pomona, San Dimas, and unincorporated areas of Los
Angeles County. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is
pre-treated pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Part 403. The Pomona WRP has a design capacity of
15.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and serves an estimated population of 124,217.
The Pomona WRP is part of integrated network of facilities, known as the Joint Outfall
System (JOS). The JOS incorporates the Pomona WRP and six other wastewater
treatment plants, which are connected by more than 1,200 miles of interceptors and truck
sewers. The upstream treatment plants (Whittier Narrows, Pomona, La Cañada, Long
Beach, Los Coyotes, and San Jose Creek) are connected to the Joint Water Pollution
Control Plant (JWPCP) located in Carson. This system allows for the diversion of influent
flows into or around each upstream plant if so desired.
The Project of Montebello Forebay Attenuation and Dilution Studies: is intended to
assess NDMA fate and transport in the environment from the effluent discharge (San Jose
Creek, Whittier Narrows, and Pomona WRPs) locations to groundwater. The final results
dated March 2008 indicated that the NDN process does increase the effluent NDMA
concentrations and may result in the increase of NDMA in the groundwater. However, the
augmented effluent NDMA concentrations can be reduced to the pre-NDN levels through
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Tentative Version 04/01/09; F-4
Revised: 05/05/09, 5/18/09, & 6/4/09)
[Page 98]
Joint Outfall System ORDER NO. R4-2009-0076
Pomona Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA0053619
the proper sequential chlorination processes, which will not cause the increase of NDMA in
the groundwater underlying the spreading grounds.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. The Pomona WRP was recently upgraded and now nitrifies and denitrifies for
ammonia removal. Treatment consists of comminution, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, activated sludge treatment, secondary clarification, filtration,
chlorination and dechlorination. Treated wastewater discharged to the South Fork
San Jose Creek is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered for reuse is not
dechlorinated
2. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Pomona WRP. The disinfecting
agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria,
pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional
disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. Prior to
discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual
chlorine.
3. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids
separated from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to
JWPCP for treatment and disposal occurs, under Order No. R4-2006-0042 (NPDES
No. CA0053813. Attachment C is a schematic of the Pomona WRP wastewater
flow.
4. JOS has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with nitrogen de-
nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin
Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since
September 2003.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Tertiary-treated wastewater is discharged to the South Fork San Jose Creek from
Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page), a water of the United States, and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

