[Page 96]
403. The Pomona WRP has a
design capacity of 15.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and serves an
estimated population of 140,164.
The Pomona WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the
JOS. The JOS incorporates the Pomona WRP and six other wastewater
treatment plants, which are connected by more than 1,200 miles of
interceptors and trunk sewers. The upstream treatment plants (Whittier
Narrows, Pomona, La Cañada, Long Beach, Los Coyotes, and San Jose
Creek) are connected to the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant (JWPCP)
located in Carson. This system allows for the diversion of influent flows into or
around each upstream plant if so desired.
The Discharger has undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for the JOS,
which is an interconnected system consisting of the Long Beach, Los
Coyotes, Pomona, San Jose Creek and Whittier Narrows WRPs, as well as
JWPCP and La Cañada WRP (non-industrial). Due to the interconnectedness
of this system, it is appropriate to formally evaluate local limits for all
treatment plants on the system at one time so that conditions throughout the
system can be considered. In the past, the Discharger has reviewed the
discharge limitations in the NPDES permits issued to these facilities and has
found that changes to existing local limits are not necessary to meet the
limitations. The most recent local limits evaluation was submitted to the Los
Angeles Water Board in April 2018, following the NPDES permit adoption of
the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant. In that evaluation, JOS found that the
existing limits were fully protective of the JOS system and concluded that
changes to existing local limits did not appear to be necessary to meet the
limitations.
2.1.2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes,
operations, and/or equipment:
a. Influent Flow: Influent sewage is delivered to the plant using two gravity-
fed sewer lines, a 30-inch line and a 33-inch interceptor trunk line along
Pomona Blvd.
b. Primary Sedimentation: Influent sewage enters primary sedimentation
tanks via Channel No.1. The primary sedimentation system consists of
three covered primary sedimentation tanks, influent and effluent channels,
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED 06/10/2021
[Page 97]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021-0097
POMONA WRP NPDES NO. CA0053619
six inlet gates, three skimming gates, sludge collection and draw-off
equipment, and scum removal equipment. The purpose of primary
sedimentation is to remove coarse, gritty material, most of the floating
material, and a major portion of the suspended solids from the raw
sewage. Coarse, gritty, and floatable material are removed because they
will interfere with the operation of the treatment plant equipment and
processes. Suspended solids are removed in order to reduce the organic
load on the aeration system and thus decrease the air requirement for
secondary treatment. The rectangular sedimentation tanks are each 100
feet long by 20 feet wide, with an average water depth of 10 feet. The
volume of the tanks, 149,600 gallons each, provide for the detention time
of 0.718 hours at design average flow (15.0 MGD). The tanks are
equipped with removable aluminum covers. Air is drawn from beneath the
covers by suction from the process air compressors (PACs) to provide
positive odor control. Air drawn off the primary sedimentation tanks is then
discharged into the aeration tanks. Primary effluent travels over weirs and
is collected in Channel No. 2 and then conveyed to the aeration system.
Settled solids and floatable materials collected by the sludge collection
and scum removal equipment are returned to the JOS sewer for disposal
at the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant (JWPCP) plant.
c. Aeration System: Primary effluent from Channel No. 2 enters the
aeration tanks through seven 21-inch circular openings with diffuser
plates. The purpose of the aeration system is to convert non-settleable
organic matter, present in the form of colloidal particles and soluble
substances, into a biological floc (activated sludge). The floc can then be
settled out, thus removing most of the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
and suspended solids (SS) from the wastewater. This is accomplished by
contacting settled sewage (primary effluent) with a concentrated
population of microorganisms, under aerobic conditions. Nitrogen is
removed by a two-step process called Nitrification/ Denitrification (NDN).
The nitrification step involves reducing the oxygen demand of ammonia by
converting it to nitrate. The denitrification step then converts nitrate to
nitrogen gas under anoxic conditions for removal. The Activated Sludge
Process (Secondary Treatment), which comprises the Aeration System,
Secondary Clarification System, Return Activated Sludge (RAS) System,
and Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) System Wastewater leaves the
carousels and enters a pair of clarifiers where sludge settling, and
clarification of the wastewater is achieved. The Pomona WRP was
retrofitted with the Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE) NDN process, which
is a biological nitrogen removal process consisting of an anoxic zone
followed by an aerobic zone. Primary effluent, return activated sludge and
recirculated mixed liquor enter the anoxic zone at the front of the aeration
tanks. Denitrification takes place readily in this zone due to the absence of
dissolved oxygen (DO). Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is absorbed in
this zone and partially metabolized utilizing the oxygen made available
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED 06/10/2021
[Page 98]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021-0097
POMONA WRP NPDES NO. CA0053619
from the reduction of nitrite. After passing through the anoxic zone, the
mixed liquor enters the aerobic zone to achieve additional COD removal
and complete nitrification.
d. Secondary Clarification: The Secondary Clarification System includes
six open clarification tanks, sludge collection equipment, skimmers, sludge
draw-off valves and control equipment. The purpose of the secondary
clarification system is to separate the suspended solids (SS) from the
aeration tank as well as to remove any floatables.
e. Tertiary Filtration: Effluent from the secondary clarifiers is discharged
into Channel No. 4 and then enters Channel No. 5 for distribution to the
filters. Mixers are used to condition the secondary effluent with aluminum
sulfate (alum) and sodium hypochlorite prior to filtration. The filtration
process removes fine suspended solids remaining in the secondary
effluent and thus further reduce the turbidity and biological oxygen
demand (BOD) levels in the plant discharge. The filtration system consists
of eight deep bed, mono-media, rectangular filters which are 32 feet long,
16 feet wide, and 22 feet deep; a backwash system; an air wash system; a
filter effluent pump station; and a backwash recovery pump station.
Currently, cationic polymer is not added to precondition the secondary
effluent. Sodium hypochlorite is added to the filter influent (pre-
chlorination) to minimize adenovirus and to prevent excessive microbial
growth within the filter bed and in the filter effluent (post-chlorination).
f. Chlorination: The Pomona WRP previously used ammonia and sodium
hypochlorite injection upstream and sodium hypochlorite injection
downstream of the effluent filters to achieve disinfection. However, the
conversion of the activated sludge process to nitrification/denitrification
resulted in the elimination of ammonia from the secondary effluent. A
modified chloramination is currently practiced, which involves the
application of sodium hypochlorite in two steps to achieve disinfection. In
the first step, an appropriate amount of free chlorine is injected to a fully
nitrified secondary effluent to provide free chlorine residual to inactivate
pathogens and to minimize N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) formation. In
the second step, ammonia and additional chlorine are added to the filter
effluent to form chloramines. Chloramines minimize trihalomethane (THM)
formation and provide additional bacterial and viral disinfection. Aqueous
ammonia is pumped from the storage tanks on the north side of Channel
No. 6.
g. Dechlorination: The purpose of the Sodium Bisulfite (NaHSO 3 ) feed
system is to remove chlorine residuals from the plant effluent prior to
discharge to South Fork San Jose Creek. Effluent not diverted for reuse in
the irrigation structure is dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge to the South Fork San Jose Creek.
h. Solids handling: No facilities are provided for solids processing at the
plant. Sewage solids separated from the wastewater are returned to the
F-7
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED 06/10/2021
[Page 99]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021-0097
POMONA WRP NPDES NO. CA0053619
trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for treatment and disposal occurs

===PLANNED CHANGES===

