[Page 75]
The current Facility provides advanced wastewater treatment and has design
capacities of 2.25 mgd, average dry weather flow (ADWF) and 7.2 mgd, peak weekly
wet weather flow. The wastewater treatment facilities include biological secondary
treatment utilizing extended air activated sludge aeration basins and secondary
clarifiers; advanced wastewater treatment (AWT) that includes chemical addition
facilities, flocculation tanks, AWT clarifiers, and sand filters; ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection; and storage prior to reclamation, discharge to the Geysers recharge
pipeline, and/or disposal. A portion of the treated and UV disinfected effluent is
directed to a wet well for chlorination prior to being transferred to Windsor High School
for toilet flushing and landscape irrigation. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of
the Facility.
The Discharger reports that actual flows recorded between January 2000 and May
2006 are as follows:
Average Dry Weather Flow 1.6 mgd
Peak Weekly Wet Weather Flow 5.2 mgd
Highest Average Monthly Flow 4.7 mgd
Highest Daily Result 5.7 mgd
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Version 2006-1B) F-5
[Page 76]
ORDER NO. R1-2007-0013 (Modified January 27, 2011)
TOWN OF WINDSOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NPDES NO. CA0023345
Storage Facilities
Five ponds provide 129 million gallons of storage capacity for the Discharger’s advanced
treated, UV disinfected effluent. Three additional ponds provide an added 36 million
gallons of high flow storage volume when influent flows exceed the treatment capacity of
the treatment plant. This combined storage volume of 165 million gallon is designed to
handle an ADWF of up to 1.6 mgd.
The effluent storage ponds are not part of the treatment system and therefore, effluent
limitations contained in this permit are applicable at the point of completion of treatment
and disinfection. The effluent storage ponds allow the Discharger to balance influent
flows with recycled water demand and its ability to discharge to receiving waters in
compliance with discharge requirements.
Biosolids and Sludge Handling
The Discharger’s sludge facilities include two sludge ponds and a sludge decant tank.
The two sludge ponds provide 12.2 million gallons of sludge stabilization and storage
capacity. A third pond, that currently provides 6.8 million gallons of effluent storage, will
be converted to a sludge stabilization pond in the future. Within the ponds, sludge
concentrates to a higher solids content and volatile suspended solids are degraded.
Surface aerators provide for odor abatement. The sludge decant tank provides
temporary holding and equalization capacity during sludge processing. Sludge can be
pumped from outlets in the floor of the tank to dewatering units or to trucks. The tank is
equipped with a floating decanter for removing supernatant that may accumulate on the
surface. Sludge is typically pumped out of these ponds on an annual basis and hauled
by an outside contractor to a site for beneficial land application of biosolids. The land
application site is outside of this Regional Water Board’s jurisdiction. The outside
contractor manages the biosolids land application permit requirements in Regions 2 and
5 on behalf of the Discharger.
Solids and screenings from the headworks are currently disposed of at a municipal solid
waste landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Facility and receiving water discharge points are located in the Russian River
Hydrologic Unit – Middle Russian River Hydrologic Area – Mark West Hydrologic
Subarea (114.23).
Advanced treated effluent that is not reclaimed to the recycled water system is
discharged from the effluent storage pond system to Mark West Creek (Discharge Serial
No. 002, Latitude 38 29’ 39”, Longitude 122 51’ 05”) during the allowed discharge
period from October 1 to May 14. Mark West Creek is tributary to the Russian River.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Version 2006-1B) F-6
[Page 77]
ORDER NO. R1-2007-0013 (Modified January 27, 2011)
TOWN OF WINDSOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NPDES NO. CA0023345
The rate of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

