[Page 88]
3. Facility Design Characteristics
The treatment design capacity of the WRCRWTP is 8 mgd average daily flow, with a
peak capacity of 12.0 mgd for up to 4 hours.
[Page 89]
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority Order No. R8-2008-0005
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA8000316
Attachment F - Fact Sheet Page F-6
The Facility consists of the following treatment processes:
Table 3. WRCRWTP Treatment Processes
Primary Secondary Flow
Tertiary Treatment
Treatment Treatment Equalization
13.44-mgd headworks, 8-mgd oxidation 8 Dyna sand filters with cationic
biofilter, mechanical bar ditch with anoxic 1.44 mgd flow polymer and liquid alum addition.
screen, non-aerated grit zone, two circular equalization tank Medium-pressure ultraviolet
chamber, a Parshall flume secondary clarifiers irradiation system disinfection
Attachment B provides a map of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C provides a treatment flow schematic for this Facility.
4. Biosolids/Sludge Handling Practices
The solids handling facility consists of the following:
a. Two aerobic digesters,
b. Three centrifuges,
c. Dewatered sludge is hauled away to approved disposal sites.
5. Recycled Water Use
The Facility will provide up to 2 mgd of recycled water for irrigation and/or
landscaping to the City of Norco and other service areas. The service areas overlie
the Temescal Groundwater Management Zone.
6. Arlington Basin Desalter and TDS/TIN Offset Program
One of the Discharger's member agencies, the Western Municipal Water District,
owns and operates the Arlington Basin Desalter (Desalter). The Desalter treats high
total dissolved solids (TDS) and nitrate groundwater pumped from the Arlington
Groundwater management zone. The Desalter produces potable water and
currently supplies water to the City of Norco. Unused treated water is also
discharged to the Santa Ana River (SAR). The Desalter utilizes reverse osmosis
(RO) to achieve advanced treatment of brackish groundwater. Brine waste from the
Desalter is discharged into the Santa Ana Regional Interceptor (SARI) line for ocean
disposal.
The previous Order No. 2002-0024 established a salt offset program that allows the
Discharger to comply with total dissolved solids effluent limitations by operation of
the Arlington Desalter. In a letter to the Executive Officer dated April 30, 2008, the
Discharger proposed to continue this offset program.
Specifically, Arlington Desalter product water discharged to the Santa Ana River
may be blended with the effluent discharge for quality calculation purposes and the
resulting calculated flow-weighted concentrations compared to the TDS and/or TIN
[Page 90]
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority Order No. R8-2008-0005
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA8000316
Attachment F - Fact Sheet Page F-7
effluent limitations. Compliance with the effluent limitations will be achieved provided
that the blended quality complies with the effluent limitations. This Order authorizes
implementation of this offset program.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Discharge Point to Surface Water
Tertiary treated wastewater is discharged via Discharge Point (DP) 001 to Reach 3
of the Santa Ana River. In the last two and half years, the effluent was discharged to
a diversion channel to the Orange County Water District's wetlands project, located
downstream of DP 001 and upstream of Prado Dam. During the wetland
construction, the diversion channel was blocked off and the river was not running at
the location of outfall 001. When OCWD completes the rehabilitation of the
wetlands, the river will be redirected towards the original WRCRWTP outfall.
2. Stormwater Discharge points
Storm water generated on site is collected and pumped into the headworks. During
high rainfall periods, excess runoff (that which exceeds the storm water pump station
capacity) overflows into DP 001.
3. Recycled Water Use Area
Recycled water for irrigation will be delivered through Discharge Point (DP) 002 to
the City of Norco.
4. Receiving Water
Surface water. Tertiary treated wastewater from the Facility is discharged to Reach 3
of Santa Ana River within the Prado B

===PLANNED CHANGES===

