[Page 58]
Groundwater Replenishment System (GWRS). The GWRS is a joint project by OCWD
and Orange County Sanitation District (OCSD). The GWRS will, in part, provide
hydraulic peak flow relief for the OCSD ocean outfall. The GWRS consists of three
major components: Advanced Water Treatment Facility (hereinafter Facility or AWTF),
Talbert Gap Seawater Intrusion Barrier (Talbert Barrier), and Kraemer/Miller Spreading
Basins. This Order will regulate discharges from the AWTF into Reach 1 of the Santa
Ana River under emergency conditions to provide flow relief when peak wastewater
flows at OCSD approach the capacity of the ocean outfall and thereby threaten the
integrity of the outfall and the wastewater treatment facilities or when the OCSD ocean
outfall is being repaired. Other discharges from the GRWS, which are used to maintain
the Talbert Gap seawater intrusion barrier and to recharge the Orange County
groundwater basin, are regulated under separate waste discharge requirements Order
No. R8-2004-0002 and amendments thereto. Operation of the AWTF started in January
2008.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in
applicable federal and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent
to references to the Discharger herein.
B. High wastewater flows approaching the maximum capacity of the OCSD outfall can
occur and are typically caused by peak wet weather storm events. It is anticipated that
storm events creating peak wastewater flows may occur infrequently and may last
approximately 12 hours each, about once every three years based on flow projections
for the year 2020. During such events, the Santa Ana River will likely convey storm
water to the ocean and provide dilution of the AWTF discharge. The amount of flow in
the river is likely to be highly variable depending on the location, duration and intensity
of the storm and the performance of upstream flood control facilities.
Under emergency conditions, including peak wastewater flow events at OCSD that
approach the maximum capacity of OCSD’s ocean outfall, secondary treated
wastewater flows from OCSD’s Fountain Valley Reclamation Plant No. 11 will be
diverted to the AWTF for further treatment and discharge to Reach 1 of the Santa Ana
River. During these peak wastewater flow conditions, the AWTF will provide up to 100
mgd of flow relief for OCSD. The AWTF will treat secondary effluent flows of up to 128
mgd from Plant No. 1 using microfiltration (MF) and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection
(bypassing reverse osmosis (RO)), followed by post-treatment chemical addition as
needed for pH adjustment. The microfiltered, disinfected tertiary effluent will be
dechlorinated (as needed) prior to being discharged to Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River
via a separate pipeline that will terminate at the Santa Ana River channel at Garfield
Avenue in Fountain Valley (DP 001). Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River is tributary to the
Pacific Ocean (about 4 miles from discharge point). Both the Santa Ana River and the
Pacific Ocean are waters of the United States.
1 OCSD’s Fountain Valley Reclamation Plant No. 1 currently discharges a combined primary and secondary
treated effluent to the Ocean. Plant No. 1 discharges to the Ocean are regulated under Order No. R8-2004-
0062, NPDES No. CA0110604. Plant No. 1 is adjacent the OCWD’s GWRS AWTF.
[Page 59]
Orange County Water District Order No. R8-2008-0004
Groundwater Replenishment System-Advanced Water Treatment Facility NPDES No. CA8000408
Attachment F – Fact Sheet Page F-5
C. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and submitted an application for Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit on March 20, 2007. Supplemental Information was requested starting
September 2007. The latest supplemental information was received on April 2008.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment or Controls
1. The GWR System:
The Groundwater Replenishment System is a water supply project, jointly sponsored
by OCWD and Orange County Sanitation District (OCSD), that will supplement
existing water supplies by providing a new, reliable, high-quality source of water to
recharge the Orange County Groundwater Basin and protect the Basin from further
degradation due to seawater intrusion. In addition, OCSD will rely upon the GWRS
to provide peak wet weather flow relief for OCSD’s ocean outfall. The GWR System
is located in central Orange County and extends from Fountain Valley and
Huntington Beach near the coast to Santa Ana, Orange, and Anaheim, generally
near the Santa Ana River.
Secondary treated effluent that would normally be discharged to the ocean will be
diverted from OCSD Plant No. 1 to the GWR System AWTF, where it is advanced
treated to meet the California Code of Regulations Title 22 requirements for
groundwater recharge during normal operating conditions and/or discharged to the
Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River under emergency conditions. As discussed above,
the GWR System consists of three major components. However, the focus of this
Order is on the AWTF’s discharges to the Santa Ana River.
2. AWTF Design Capacity and Wastewater Treatment
The AWTF is located at 18700 Ward Street,, Fountain Valley in Orange County. It
includes treatment processes and pumping stations. The AWTF treatment design
capacity is 70 million gallons per day (mgd) for recycled water production, while
peak design influent flow rate is 128 mgd. Construction of this Facility is completed
and operation for recycled water production started in January 2008.
The advanced treatment processes are as follows.
a Fine Screening: Secondary treated wastewater from OCSD’s Reclamation Plant
No. 1 will be strained, or passed through rotating band fine-mesh screens, and
chlorinated (as needed) prior to microfiltration. Screenings will be dewatered and
returned to OCSD for disposal.
[Page 60]
Orange County Water District Order No. R8-2008-0004
Groundwater Replenishment System-Advanced Water Treatment Facility NPDES No. CA8000408
Attachment F – Fact Sheet Page F-6
b Microfiltration: Screened secondary effluent will flow via gravity to 26 in-basin
microfiltration (MF) cells containing submerged racks of hollow fiber membranes
with a maximum pore size of 0.2 micron. Sodium hypochlorite is added as-
needed to the MF feed to form a low level (3-5 mg/L) of chloramine to
reduce/prevent fouling of the MF membranes. The nominal rated filtrate
production capacity of the MF system will be 86 mgd, with peak capacity at 100
mgd. The waste backwash will be returned to OCSD for treatment.
.
c Reverse Osmosis. The RO process will be bypassed when AWTF effluent is
discharged to the Santa Ana River.
d Advanced Oxidation/UV Disinfection: The advanced oxidation/disinfection
process (AOP) consists of two steps: hydrogen peroxide addition and ultraviolet
(UV) light treatment. UV irradiation is used for disinfection and reduction of light-
sensitive contaminants. Hydrogen peroxide exposed to UV irradiation produces
hydroxyl radicals that result in advanced oxidation to destroy UV-resistant
contaminants. For direct discharge to the SAR, only UV treatment will be used.
The nominal capacity of the UV system, including standby trains, is 100 mgd.
e Dechlorination and pH adjustment: After UV disinfection and prior to
discharge to the Santa Ana River, the effluent stream may still contain some
chloramines. Sodium bisulfate will be added for dechlorination, if needed.
Approximately 28 mgd of waste backwash, brine and start-up discharges will be
returned to Orange County Sanitation District’s Plant No. 1. Waste backwash, brine
and start-up discharges will not be discharged to the Santa Ana River, even under
emergency conditions or during discharge system testing periods.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C p

===PLANNED CHANGES===

