[Page 65]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Discharger provides wastewater collection and treatment for approximately two-
thirds of the estimated 14,000 residents of the unincorporated town of McKinleyville.
Dry weather flows have been slightly less than one-million gallons per day, and wet
weather flows reached two-million gallons per day during the winter of 2005-2006.
Municipal wastewater is collected at five lift stations for pumping to a combined
headworks comminuter at the wastewater treatment plant. Flows from the headworks
enter two parallel facultative primary aeration ponds. The primary aeration ponds
overflow to a series of two secondary aeration ponds followed by two emergent
bullrush marshes for effluent polishing and a chlorine contact chamber for disinfection.
Effluent can be dechlorinated by sulfur dioxide prior to discharge to the Mad River.
No sludge has been removed from the pond system.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
When Mad River flow exceeds 200 cubic feet per second at the USGS highway 299
bridge gage, effluent is discharged to the river under the old Hammond Lumber
Company railroad bridge. During dry weather, effluent is discharged to percolation
ponds downstream of the railroad bridge or reclaimed for dry-weather maintenance of
the Hiller storm water treatment wetland or irrigation of the Mad River flood plain. The
Discharger also has the option of reclaiming effluent through irrigation on the elevated
northern portion of the former Fisher parcel north of the railroad bridge, on the lower
Fisher Ranch, and on the Pialorsi Ranch.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in the existing Order for di

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Expansion of Treatment Marsh. In 2005, the Discharger converted the last of their
4-pond treatment sequence from a pond to a marsh and planted additional marsh to
form a two-stage effluent polishing wetland. Construction and planting were
completed in December of 2005, but full treatment efficiency is not expected until
marsh vegetation develops through three annual growth seasons. Reductions in
effluent BOD and TSS and improved results of acute toxicity tests since 2006 suggest
that the wetlands are significantly improving treatment system performance.
Dairy Operations on Reclaimed Water Use Areas. The concentration of
groundwater nitrate in the water reclamation areas currently exceeds the drinking
water Maximum Contaminant Level of 10 mg/L for nitrate (as nitrogen). The
Discharger has determined that the two-stage polishing wetland currently reduces the
concentration of nitrate in the treated effluent to levels below 10 mg/L as nitrogen and
believes that the elevated concentration of nitrate in groundwater is a result of dairy
operations. If groundwater nitrate concentrations cannot otherwise be depressed
below the human health threshold, the Discharger intends to discontinue grazing dairy
cattle on reclamation irrigation a