[Page 1]
5. Construction of the WWTF was completed in 1970. Prior to that, the Permittee
treated all wastewater at the old treatment plant located within the existing City
corporation yard at 550 Westside Road. Until the 1970 expansion, all treated
wastewater was discharged to Dry Creek. Additional improvements to the
WWTF were constructed in 1983, including a new chlorine disinfection building
and chlorine contact basin and the present outfall pipeline to the Basalt Pond.
The current waste treatment facilities include wastewater screening and grit
removal, biological secondary treatment using four aerated ponds followed by
two oxidation/sedimentation ponds and disinfection. The treated wastewater is
disinfected using chlorine gas, however, the effluent is not currently
dechlorinated before discharge. The Permittee intends to install a
dechlorination process prior to the adoption of this Permit in order to comply
with water quality objectives and to meet effluent limitations for chlorine
residual.
6. The WWTF is designed to treat an average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 1.4
million gallons per day (mgd) and a maximum peak flow of 6.5 mgd.
7. The WWTF discharges to the Basalt Pond, one of several existing gravel pits
that were excavated adjacent to the Russian River in alluvial deposits of sand
and gravel. These deposits are part of an important groundwater aquifer that
supplies domestic and agricultural well water. The Basalt Pond has a surface
area of 52 acres, and a maximum depth of 55 feet. The Basalt Pond was
[Page 2]
Waste Discharge Requirements -3- (Revised January 17, 2008)
Order No. R1-2005-0084
excavated between the late 1960s and mid-1980s by the Basalt Rock
Company, as part of their gravel mining operation. The Basalt Pond is currently
owned by Syar Industries, Inc. The Basalt Pond was excavated in the historic
floodplain of the Russian River. A levee, composed primarily of soil and alluvial
material, was constructed to separate the Basalt Pond from surface flows in the
Russian River. The levee is not an engineered barrier, designed for
impermeability that would prevent discharges of effluent from reaching the
Russian River.
8. The Permittee is currently conducting environmental review for two alternative
treatment technologies to upgrade the existing treatment facilities to provide
advanced wastewater treatment; conventional extended aeration with biological
nitrogen removal (BNR) and tertiary filtration; and a membrane bioreactor with
BNR. The project will also consider the feasibility and the potential
environmental impact of alternative discharge locations, as well as agricultural
and urban re-use alternatives.
9. Prior to 2000, solids were periodically excavated from each of the two aeration
ponds. Up until the mid-1990’s, solids were spread on-site under a sludge
management and sampling plan submitted to the Regional Water Board. Up
until approximately 2000, the Permittee leased a portion of the property for
pumpkin farming, which under the sludge management plan was intended to
uptake nitrogen from the dewatered sludge. After the most recent sludge
removal in approximately 1999, the dewatered solids were hauled to a landfill
under contract. The most recent solids removal contracts were issued in 1998,
2000 and 2002. Since that time, this practice has been discontinued, since the
treatment plant is designed to provide sludge digestion within the facultative
ponds. Solids Disposal and Handling Provisions are included in Section G of
this Permit.
10. The Permittee is currently governed by Waste Discharge Requirements Order
No. 92-80, adopted by the Regional Water Board on June 15, 1992. The
Regional Water Board has adopted the following enforcement orders since
1992:
Cease and Desist Order No. 95-65
On August 24, 1995, the Regional Water Board adopted Cease and Desist
Order No. 95-65 (CDO) in response to breaches of the Basalt Pond levee on
January 8, 1995 and March 11, 1995, which caused discharges of wastewater
to the Russian River. The CDO required the Permittee to submit a report
detailing long- and short-term solutions, including a time schedule for key
actions to prevent future unpermitted discharges of wastewater. On November
1, 1995, the Permittee submitted a report required by the CDO. For the short-
term, the Permittee proposed to strengthen the Basalt pond levee. Long-term,
[Page 3]
Waste Discharge Requirements -4- (Revised January 17, 2008)
Order No. R1-2005-0084
the Permittee pledged to investigate, choose, and implement an alternative
disposal method. On July 8, 1996, the Permittee requested to change the
compliance schedule to allow them to “extend the scope of their
alternatives…to include different and more advanced treatment processes.” On
January 8, 1997 the Permittee’s consultant requested modification of the
schedule contained in the CDO to allow for construction and monitoring of a
percolation pond pilot plant and to pursue the construction of an engineered
percolation pond and an advanced wastewater treatment plant.
Cease and Desist Order No. 97-27
On January 1, 1997 the Russian River flooded, cutting another breach in Basalt
Pond levee. The Regional Water Board adopted Cease and Desist Order No.
97-27 (CDO) in response, superseding Cease and Desist Order No. 95-65.
The CDO required the Permittee to complete construction of the long-term
project by October 1, 2001. Completion of the requirements of this CDO are
still pending. A new Cease and Desist Order No. R1-2004-0065 (CDO) is
being adopted in conjunction with this perm

[Page 4]
15. The Permittee’s Draft Environmental Impact Report, Wastewater Outfall
Relocation Project states on page 4-2, “The groundwater basin is
hydraulically connected to the Russian River. In the Russian River Valley,
groundwater moves from the margins toward the Russian River during most
of the year. Groundwater in the project area generally flows to the southeast
with a gentle gradient.” And on page 4-6,
“Nitrate-nitrogen data indicated that there were relatively high concentrations
in the wastewater treatment pond (Basalt Pond) and in wells immediately
downgradient of the Pond. The wastewater discharge could be a potential
source of nitrate-nitrogen, a contaminant that could contribute to the
development of algal blooms in the river.”
16. High flows of the Russian River have historically caused catastrophic
breaches of the Basalt Pond levee. Syar intends to construct a weir between
the Basalt Pond and the Russian River to protect the levee from these high
flows. The weir will essentially consist of a notch in the levee, designed to
relieve pressure on the levee face by allowing the uncontrolled entry of high
[Page 5]
Waste Discharge Requirements -6- (Revised January 17, 2008)
Order No. R1-2005-0084
flows from the river into the pond. The crest of the weir is designed to be
approximately eight feet above the ordinary high water mark of the Russian
River and within the 10-year floodplain. Regional Water Board staff predict
that with the current rainfall trends in the area, the constructed weir will allow
for much more frequent--possibly annual--interchange of water than currently
occurs through levee breach.
17. The above facts demonstrate the Basalt Pond, and the wetlands along it, are
hydrologically connected to the Russian River and therefore waters of the
United States. First, the Basalt Pond is a surface tributary by virtue of
periodic inundation by the Russian River; a connection that will grow more
frequent when Syar installs a weir to lowers the Basalt Pond levee.
(Headwaters v. Talent Irrigation District (9th Cir. 2001) 243 F.3d 526, 533
(irrigation canals exchanging water with natural streams and a lake were
waters of the United States).) The presence of wetlands in the pond only
enhances its character as waters of the United States. Waters of the United
States include not only navigable waters but also wetlands whose functions
create a “significant nexus” such that they are “inseparably bound up” with the
navigable waters. (Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County v. United
States Army Corps of Engineers (2001) 531 U.S. 159, 167.) Even attenuated
hydrologic connections between these important wetlands and navigable
waters trigger Clean Water Act jurisdiction. (E.g., United States v. Rapanos
(6th Cir. 2003) 339 F.3d 447 (wetlands 10-12 miles from navigable waters);
United States v. Deaton (4th Cir. 2003) 332 F.3d 698, 702 (wetland
connection followed “winding 32-mile path” to navigable waters). The Basalt
Pond is roughly 50-100 feet from the navigable Russian River. Water flows
underground from the Basalt Pond to the Russian River at a rate of
approximately four cubic feet per second. Pollutants, including at least nitrate
nitrogen, travel to the river along with the underflow. This hydrologic
connection makes the wetlands in the Russian River “adjacent” to a navigable
water and therefore waters of the United States subject to Clean Water Act
jurisdiction.
18. Aside from the presence of wetlands adjacent to the Russian River, the
Basalt Pond is also waters of the United States because it is adjacent to open
water. “The same characteristics that justif[y] protection of adjacent wetlands
. . . apply as well to adjacent ponds.” (San Francisco Baykeeper v. Cargill
Salt Division (N.D. Cal., Apr. 29, 2003) 2003 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 8246, pp. 16,
23.) The hydrologic connection between the pond and the river is sufficient
nexus to classify the pond as waters of the United States.
19. Even if the Basalt Pond were not waters of the United States, the discharge of
wastewater would still require an NPDES permit because the water flowing
out of the pond is hydrologically connected to the Russian River. Congress
[Page 6]
Waste Discharge Requirements -7- (Revised January 17, 2008)
Order No. R1-2005-0084
intended that all aquatic features that affect interstate commerce, including
groundwater hydrologically connected to navigable waters, to be subject to
the Clean Water Act. (E.g., U.S. Steel Corp. v. Train (7th Cir. 1977) 556 F.2d
822, 852; Idaho

===PLANNED CHANGES===

