[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Date Gardens MHP services a population of approximately 220 individuals among 72
mobile home spaces. The Date Gardens MHP is located in El Centro, located in the
Imperial Valley. The Facility produces wastewater that is 100% domestic, with no industrial
or commercial discharge. Operation of the treatment plant is currently contracted with
Water Treatment Services. The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) has a design
capacity of 0.02 million gallons-per-day (MGD) and is located in the SW ¼ of Section 34,
T15S, R13E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of two activated sludge package treatment plants
operated in parallel; one of the package plants has a design capacity of 0.005 MGD and
the other has a design capacity of 0.015 MGD. The combined design capacity of the
WWTP is 0.02 MGD. The sewage from the mobile home park flows via gravity into a
sump in front of the package plants and is pumped into the aeration chambers of the
complete mix extended aeration package plants. The mixed liquor flows into a clarifier
where solids settle out. Effluent exiting the clarifier is directed through two dual media
filters and then through an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system prior to entering an
effluent weir box. Effluent flows from the effluent weir box into an enclosed subsurface
tile drain prior to entering the receiving water.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Rice Drain No. 3, an Imperial
Valley Drain, a water of the United States. Rice Drain No. 3 flows approximately 7 miles
before entering the New River at a point approximately 30 miles to the Salton Sea.
Sludge from the clarifier is pumped into the re-aeration phase of the package plant. Re-
aerated mixed liquor passes through a baffle and back into the primary aeration tank.
Digested sludge is discharged periodically to a cistern located next to the package
plant. Once the sludge is dried, it is removed from the cistern and disposed off-site and
transferred to the City of Holtville WWTP.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001, at Latitude 32º, 47’, 56” North
and Longitude 115º, 37’, 22” West, to Rice Dr

===PLANNED CHANGES===

