[Page 102]
Discharge Requirements and NPDES permit are adopted pursuant to this Order.
1
Appurtenant structures among other things include the Regional Water Recycling Plant No.2 (RP-2)
facility. RP-2 is an existing tertiary wastewater treatment plant owned by the Discharger. Cease and
Desist Order No. 94-74 required the Discharger to relocate the liquid treatment facilities at RP-2 to a site
not subject to flooding. Consequently, RP-5 replaced RP-2. Only the sludge treatment systems at RP-2
are operational and there are no longer surface water discharges from RP-2. Primary and waste
activated sludge from RP-5 and CCWRF are piped to the regional solids handling facility at RP-2 for
sludge treatment. Dewatered wastewater from RP-2 is pumped back to the headworks of RP-5.
[Page 103]
Inland Empire Utilities Agency Order No. R8-2009-0021
Regional Water Recycling Facilities NPDES No. CA8000409
Surface Water Discharges and Recycled Water Use
Attachment F- Fact Sheet Page F-7 of F-41
C. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and submitted an application for a new
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System

[Page 104]
2. Design Characteristics and Biosolids Treatment
The treatment processes at each Facility are tabulated as follows:
Table 4. Plant Treatment Processes
Facility RP-1 RP-4 RP-5 CCWRF
Mechanical bar screen, grit
Mechanical bar screens, grit
Preliminary & Mechanical bar screens, grit Mechanical bar screen, grit removal, chemical addition,
chambers, chemical addition,
Primary chambers, chemical addition, chambers, one storage primary clarifiers,
primary clarifiers, flow equalization
Treatment primary clarifiers basin (, primary clarifiers emergency storage basin
/emergency storage basins
Aeration basins with Aeration basins with
Secondary Aeration trains with oxic/anoxic Aeration basins with oxic /anoxic
anoxic/oxic zones, anoxic/oxic zones,
Treatment zones, secondary clarifiers zones, secondary clarifiers
secondary clarifiers secondary clarifiers
Coagulation/Flocculation,
Coagulation/Flocculation, Coagulation/Flocculation, filtration, Coagulation/flocculation,
Tertiary filtration, chlorination, de-
sedimentation, filtration, chlorination, chlorination, de-chlorination (not filtration, chlorination,
Treatment chlorination, emergency
dechlorination used), emergency diversion pond dechlorination
overflow pond
15 (and 1.3 mgd RP-2
Design
44 14 sludge treatment system 11.4
Capacity, mgd
wastewater flows)
The solids handling for these facilities takes place at RP-1. RP-4 primary Primary and waste activated sludge wastes from RP-5 and
sludge and waste activated sludge are conveyed through the sewer system CCWRF are piped to the regional solids handling facility at
and enter RP-1 as influent. Solids treatment includes gravity thickener and RP-2 for sludge treatment. The solids treatment system at
dissolved air flotation thickeners, anaerobic digestion, digester gas utilization, RP-2 includes gravity thickeners; dissolved air flotation
Solids
and belt press dewatering. Belt press wash water is pumped to the DAFT thickeners; anaerobic digestion; aerobic digestion; belt
Handling
units where the solids can be recovered and the remaining liquid is returned press, and centrifuge dewatering. Dewatered biosolids are
to the activated sludge process.2 Belt press filtrate is pumped to the Non- hauled away to approved disposal sites
Reclaimable Waste System (NRWS) line and is ultimately treated by the Sludge treatment system wastewater from RP-2 is pumped
County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County. back to headworks of RP-5.
2
IEUA plans to construct a building to house four new centrifuges for dewatering digested sludge. This will replace the belt press dewatering. The
tentative project completion and start-up date is 2012.
[Page 105]
Inland Empire Utilities Agency Order No. R8-2009-0021
Regional Water Recycling Facilities NPDES No. CA8000409
Surface Water Discharges and Recycled Water Use
Attachment F- Fact Sheet Page F-9 of F-41
3. Recycled Water Uses
The Discharger delivers tertiary treated wastewater through the regional recycled
water system at variou

===PLANNED CHANGES===

