[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The City of Eureka owns and operates the wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
facilities that serve approximately 44,128 people in the City of Eureka and unincorporated
areas within the Humboldt Community Services District. The WWTF is located at 4301
Hilfiker Lane in Eureka, Humboldt County, California.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment or Controls
The WWTF treats domestic, commercial, industrial, and treated groundwater remediation
project wastewater. The treatment facility has an average dry weather treatment capacity
of 5.24 mgd, a peak dry weather treatment capacity of 8.6 mgd, and a hydraulic capacity
of 32 mgd.
Wastewater treatment includes primary treatment with mechanical bar screens, grit
removal, and primary clarification. Secondary treatment is accomplished using two
trickling filters, followed by secondary clarification and chlorination. The effluent is then
stored in an effluent holding pond until ebb tide occurs when the flow is dechlorinated and
discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Humboldt Bay. Discharge at ebb tide ensures the
wastewater is conveyed to the Pacific Ocean. Regional Water Board Resolution No. 80-
10 concluded that the discharge to Humboldt Bay during ebb tide effectively classifies the
discharge as an ocean discharge, rather than a discharge to an enclosed bay. The
Resolution was approved by State Water Board Resolution No. 80-87 as consistent with
the requirements of the Water Quality Control Policy for the Enclosed Bays and Estuaries
of California.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 68]
City of Eureka Greater Eureka Area, Elk River WWTF
Order No. R1-2009-0033
NPDES Permit No. CA0024449
Flows up to 12 mgd receive full secondary treatment, and flows above 12 mgd receive
primary treatment and are blended with secondary treated wastewater prior to discharge
to Humboldt Bay.
During periods when high influent flow exceeds the hydraulic capacity of the WWTF,
excess flow from the effluent holding pond can be directed to a 13-acre freshwater holding
marsh (Overflow Marsh) and pumped back to the effluent storage pond once flows
subside. The Overflow Marsh is a component of the WWTF, as described in the “Final
Environmental Impact Report – Wastewater Management Plan for the Greater Eureka
Area” (July 10, 1980), and as established in Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 81-
1 adopted for the Facility by the Regional Water Board on January 22, 1981.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The treatment facili

===PLANNED CHANGES===

