[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
facilities that serve a residential population of approximately 7,000 from the City of Fort Bragg
and adjacent unincorporated areas. The WWTF is located at 101 West Cypress Street in Fort
Bragg, Mendocino County, California. The Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District is
bounded on the north by MacKerricher State Park and by South Harbor Drive to the south.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment
The collection system consists of approximately 30 miles of gravity pipeline and pressure
mains and six pump stations (three constructed in 1970, one in 1975, one in 1987, and the
last in 1989).
The WWTF has a design capacity of 1.0 mgd (average dry weather treatment capacity)
and 2.2 mgd (average wet weather treatment capacity). Primary wastewater treatment
includes grit removal, screening, and primary clarification. Secondary treatment consists
of a two-stage biofiltration (trickling filters) process and clarification with chemical addition
to enhance clarification. Treated wastewater is currently disinfected using gaseous
chlorine and dechlorinated with sulfur dioxide prior to discharge at Discharge Point 001 to
the Pacific Ocean.
Sludge from the primary clarifier is pumped to a gravity thickener and then to two
anaerobic digesters. Skimmings from the primary clarifier are directed to an unlined
grease lagoon for drying and storage prior to final disposal in a municipal solid waste
landfill. Sludge from the secondary clarifier is pumped directly to anaerobic digestion.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 63]
Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District No. 1
ORDER NO. R1-2009-0030
NPDES NO. CA0023078
Digested primary and secondary settled sludge is dewatered to a minimum of fifteen
percent solids in a gravity belt press. Additional sludge drying takes place in sludge drying
beds prior to disposal or reuse. Since 2005, the dried sludge has been hauled off-site to
the Redwood Landfill in Novato.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated wastewater is currently discharged at Discharge Point 001 at 39° 26′ 20″ N
latitude and 123° 48′ 48″ W longitude to the Pacific Ocean, via a 650-foot outfall, west of
the treatment plant. The receiving water is located within the Mendocino Coast Hydrologic
Unit and is a water of the United States.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

