[Page 2]
3. Treatment consists of raw influent bar screening, grit removal in pre-aeration tanks; sludge
and scum removal in primary sedimentation tanks; biological treatment (including nitrogen
reduction) with coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, and clarification; followed by
filtration; and ultraviolet light disinfection. Biosolids are thickened by gravity belt
thickeners, anaerobically digested, and dewatered in unlined sand drying beds. The dried
biosolids are hauled off-site for land application or composted for commercial use.
4. The City’s Industrial Waste staff manages a pretreatment program that consists of 1,342
permitted nondomestic dischargers. Thirty of these dischargers are classified as significant
industrial users (SIUs), and 20 of the SIUs are categorical industrial users (CIUs). The
remaining 1,312 facilities are other regulated nonsignificant nondomestic dischargers that
consist of ground water remediation sites, auto shops, restaurants, dry-cleaners, photo
processors, and dental offices.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Incremental Recycled Water Program (IRWP). The City of Santa Rosa approved the
IRWP, which effectively caps the annual discharge from the WWTF at 4,500 million
gallons (based on an average dry weather flow of 21.34 mgd). Wastewater flows attributed
to future growth anticipated between 2010 and 2020 will be allocated to reuse divided
among agricultural and urban reuse, as well as to providing additional water for the
Geysers Recharge Project. The total estimated cost of the program is $225 million.
2. Leachate Pipeline. A project is underway to install a pipeline to convey leachate
generated at the Sonoma County landfill to the Santa Rosa treatment facility. The new
conveyance system will connect the leachate ponds to the Rohnert Park trunk sewer line
where leachate will be pumped approximately 24,000 feet to a connection point just north
of the Laguna de Santa Rosa. The design capacity of the system will be approximately
42.5 million gallons per year.
3. Pond Usage. The Discharger has requested that the Alpha Pond (001), the Kelly Pond
(004), and the Poncia Pond (007) be removed as designated discharge locations in the
renewed NPDES permit.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
[Page 8]
Santa Rosa Subregional Water Reclamation System
ORDER NO. R1-2006-0045
NPDES NO. CA0022764
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-9
A. Legal Authoriti