[Page 91]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Russian River County Sanitation District (RRCSD) owns wastewater collection,
treatment, and disposal facilities that serve approximately 7,300 people in
unincorporated areas of Rio Nido, Vacation Park, Guerneville, and Guernewood
Park. The majority of the facility’s wastewater flow is residential and commercial
(approximately 98%), while approximately two (2) percent is made up of industrial,
recreational, institutional, and governmental flow. The collection system includes
approximately 35 miles of gravity sewer pipeline, five miles of force main, and 11 lift
stations that convey wastewater to the Russian River Treatment Facility located at
18400 Neeley Road in Guerneville. The Sonoma County Water Agency (SCWA)
operates the WWTF and collection system under contract with the RRCSD.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 92]
Russian River Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2009-0003
NPDES Permit No. CA0024058
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment facility has design treatment capacities of 0.71 million gallons per
day (mgd) (average dry weather flow) and 3.5 mgd (maximum sustained wet-
weather peak flow). Wastewater treatment is accomplished by coarse screening
and aerated grit removal, three (3) extended aeration activated sludge basins, three
(3) secondary clarifiers, two (2) tertiary filters, and chlorination/dechlorination. The
third aeration basin is currently used as an additional storage basin for influent
during high flow events. The addition of the third secondary clarifier during the term
of the previous permit increased the facility’s wet weather capacity to a maximum
sustained flow rate of 3.5 mgd.
Tertiary treated, disinfected (and dechlorinated) wastewater is held in a 3.5 million
gallon Effluent Storage Pond (also know as the “Holding Pond” by operations staff)
prior to discharge to the Russian River (October 1 – May 14) or the recycled
water/land disposal system. The Effluent Storage Pond also fills the redwood tank
at the top of the hill that supplies recycled water for various uses including irrigation
of the Northwood Golf Course and the upper and lower Burch properties, as well as
utility water for plant processes and fire hydrants around the plant. During river
discharge, a control valve is used to adjust the flow from the effluent storage pond
through the Russian River Outfall line. The bottom of the effluent storage pond is at
39.0 feet elevation, while 0 feet of freeboard is at 57.0 feet elevation. To protect the
pond from failure, an emergency overflow is at 56.0 ft elevation. The effluent
storage pond overflow pipe connects with the Russian River Outfall line after the
control valve but prior to the Russian River Outfall meter.
From October 1 through May 14 treated wastewater is discharged to the Russian
River, waters of the United States within the Guerneville hydrologic subarea of the
Lower Russian River hydrologic area.
From May 15 through September 30, when discharges to the Russian River are
prohibited, the treated wastewater is used for irrigation of the Northwood Golf
Course. The Northwood Golf Course is located south of the treatment facility and
on the opposite side of the Russian River. An average of 0.085 mgd is applied to
an area of 43 acres during the irrigation season. Treated wastewater not used by
the Northwood Golf Course is spray irrigated on 17 acres of wooded property
adjacent to the treatment facility (the Burch property). During the irrigation season
(May 15 to September 30), approximately 0.02 mgd and 0.23 mgd, respectively,
are currently applied to the “upper” and “lower” areas of the Burch property.
During periods of very high influent flows, flow that exceeds treatment capacity is
chlorinated and diverted to a one (1) million gallon Emergency Holding Pond. The
Emergency Holding Pond stores primary effluent sent there from the headworks or
from Aeration Basin #3. Tertiary effluent is also automatically diverted to the
Emergency Pond when the turbidimeter is greater than 2 NTU, when there is a
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 93]
Russian River Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2009-0003
NPDES Permit No. CA0024058
chlorine residual detected in the effluent going to the Holding Pond, or when the
chlorine contact time at the end of the chlorine contact chamber is less than 450
mg-min/L. The bottom of the Emergency Holding Pond is at 39.0 feet elevation,
while 0 feet of freeboard is at 50.0 feet elevation. To protect the pond from failure,
an emergency overflow is at 47.25 feet elevation. The Emergency Holding Pond
overflow pipe connects with the Russian River Outfall line after the control valve,
but prior to the Russian River Outfall meter. According to the Storage Curve, the
Emergency Holding Pond has 0.8 MG of storage at the emergency overflow of
47.25 feet elevation (2.75 feet freeboard). A barrier has been inserted in the
emergency overflow structure so that the Emergency Holding Pond does not spill
into the overflow pipeline until the pond level is at 1.0 MG of storage at 49.0 feet (1
foot freeboard). As influent flow subsides, raw wastewater from the Emergency
Holding Pond is directed back to the headworks for treatment.
The Discharger estimates that infiltration and inflow to the system is 0.195 mgd
based on 2004 through 2006 flow data.
Biosolids resulting from wastewater treatment are dewatered by belt press and
stored in sludge bins prior to ultimate disposal at the Redwood Landfill in Marin
County.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The treatment facility’s point of discharge to the Russian River is located within the
Guerneville Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Russian River Hydrologic Area and
the Russian River Hydrologic Unit at 38º 24′ 04″ N latitude and 122º 56′ 31″ W
longitude. In accordance with the Basin Plan, discharges to the Russian River can
occur only duri

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has three significant upgrades planned during the term of this
Order.
1. The Discharger is planning to install an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system to
replace the chlorination disinfection system and expects to complete this project
by July 2011 in accordance with the compliance schedule contained in
Administrative Civil Liability Order No. R1-2008-0045. The UV system will
improve facility compliance with coliform effluent limitations and will eliminate
the formation of trihalomethanes, including dichlorobromomethane,
chlorodibromomethane, and chloroform, thus allowing the Discharg