[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Shelter Cove Wastewater Treatment Facility, a
domestic wastewater and reclamation facility that serves a population of approximately 1,500
within the Humboldt County Resort Improvement District No. 1. The Facility is located on
Lower Pacific Drive at Wave Road in Shelter Cove, Humboldt County, California.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment
The treatment facility has an average dry weather design treatment capacity of 0.17 mgd,
an average wet weather treatment capacity of 0.27 mgd, and a peak wet weather
treatment capacity of 0.77 mgd. The wastewater treatment plant is an extended aeration,
activated sludge system comprised of two oxidation ditches, two clarifiers, a disinfection
system, and an advanced treatment filtration system for effluent reused for irrigation of the
existing Shelter Cove golf course.
During the winter period, all of the secondary treated effluent is discharged through
Discharge Point 001 into the surf zone of the Pacific Ocean within the Kings Range
National Conservation Area. During the spring, summer, and fall, some or all of the
treated effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 002 to a storage pond that supplies
a spray irrigation system on the existing Shelter Cove golf course, a nine-hole golf course.
Sludge solids are dewatered using a proprietary filter bag system. Sludge from the
clarifiers is placed in filter bags that allow the liquid to escape while retaining the solids.
After a period of drying, the bags containing sludge are taken to the Humboldt County solid
waste transfer station for landfill disposal. During the previous permit term an average of
484 pounds of sludge were processed and disposed of per month.
Attachment F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 68]
Humboldt County Resort Improvement District No. 1,
Shelter Cove WWTF
Order No. R1-2009-0094
NPDES Permit No. CA0023027
Seasonal population trends and large amounts of infiltration and inflow (I/I) to the collection
system influence wastewat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

