[Page 2]
14. The following is a summary of the wastewater treatment and recycling system components.
a. Influent lift pumps and flow meter j. Dissolved oxygen and suspended
b. ¼ inch gravity screen solids analyzers
c. 12 acre-foot aerated treatment k. Continuous monitoring effluent
lagoon (~4.0 million gallons) turbidity meter
d. Upflow sand filter l. Tertiary effluent flow meter
e. Programmable logic controller m. Recycled water storage pond (9-acre
f. Chlorine contact chamber feet)
g. Influent and tertiary effluent chlorine n. Chemical feed and storage building
residual analyzers and chemical level sensors.
h. Calcium thiosulfate tank o. Alarms and generator
i. Water level transmitters
15. The wastewater treated at the Facility is of domestic origin, received from the small town of
Davenport. All domestic wastewater from the town flows by gravity to a pumping station and
is pumped to the treatment plant. The pumped domestic wastewater passes a screen that
removes particles larger than 0.25 inches.
16. The screened domestic wastewater enters the 12-acre-foot aerated treatment lagoon, where
the wastewater is treated (oxidized) to a secondary effluent quality.
17. The secondary treated effluent discharges to a filter that is designed to produce high-quality
filtered effluent, which flows by gravity into an upflow sand filter followed by a chlorine
contact disinfection chamber. The chlorine contact chamber produces an effluent with a
fecal coliform count of less than or equal to 2.2 most probable number per 100 milliliters
(MPN/ml).
18. The recycled water is pumped to the recycled water storage pond prior to use for agricultural
irrigation. Recycled water is pumped directly to the CRLF habitat, fill station, and spray field.
19. Off-specification (not meeting title 22 criteria) treated wastewater is recirculated back into
the 12-acre-foot aerated treatment lagoon.
Compliance History
20. WDR Order No. 95-27 requires a minimum freeboard of two feet in the receiving 12-acre-
foot aerated treatment lagoon. This requirement was regularly not met from 1999 through
2017.
2 CCR, title 23, division 3, chapter 9, Waste Discharge Reports and Requirements Article 1. Fees
[Page 3]
Master Reclamation Requirements 4 May 17, 2019
Order No. R3-2019-0008
21. Wastewater runoff from the property was observed in May 2011 during a site inspection by
Central Coast Water Board staff. The Central Coast Water Board iss

===PLANNED CHANGES===

