[Page 84]
1. Existing Wastewater Treatment Facility
The existing WWTF consists of an extended aeration activated sludge process followed
by clarification and chlorine disinfection. The average dry weather design flow capacity
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 85]
City of Willits WWTF
ORDER NO. R1-2010-0017
NPDES NO. CA0023060
of the existing WWTF is 1.3 mgd and the peak wet weather design flow capacity is
3.0 mgd.
Primary treatment is provided in a recently constructed two-story headworks building and
influent pump station. Influent to the WWTF is directed to the influent pump station wet
well chamber below the first level of the headworks building. Influent to the wet well
chamber is measured by a Parshall flume at a manhole located west of the headworks
building just prior to entering the wet well chamber. The wet well chamber has four
pumps and removes flotables with a pre-rotation process. The two larger pumps (38.9
horsepower (HP) each) can pump up to 2,430 gallons per minute (gpm). The two
smaller pumps (25.4 HP each) can pump up to 1,215 gpm. Wastewater in the wet well is
pumped through two screw conveyed inclined screens to the second-story. Solids
removed by the inclined screens are conveyed by chutes and bagged for disposal by
Solids Waste Services. Wastewater from the inclined screens is directed to a grit
removal and classification chamber. The grit classifier is supplied by two alternating 15
HP pumps rated at 300 gpm. Solids from the grit removal process are collected in a bin
on the first level. The headworks treatment processes are sized to handle a future peak
influent flow capacity of 10 mgd.
Primary treated wastewater exceeding the secondary treatment capacity is diverted by a
secondary influent splitter box to the first of five storm equalization ponds located on the
south end of the Facility property. The equalization ponds have a total capacity of
approximately 16 million gallons. Pond No. 1 is lined with concrete, while the remaining
ponds are lined with impermeable clay liners.
During periods of wet weather, influent flows that exceed the capacity of the Facility are
directed into Pond No. 1. When Pond No. 1 has reached capacity, excess wastewater
flows over a weir into Pond No. 2, leaving behind any settleable solids as it skims the
wastewater off the top. When Pond No. 2 reaches capacity, wastewater flows into Pond
No. 3 via a pipe set at the bottom of the pond, which removes floatables as they remain
at the top. Wastewater is piped from Pond No. 3 to Pond Nos. 4 and 5 as required by
wet weather flows. Flow between each of the ponds is controlled by gravity. When
influent flows to the WWTF drop below the treatment capacity, wastewater from Pond
No. 1 can be directed back to the headworks through a pipe in the northeast corner of
the pond. A one-way flow restrictor between Pond Nos. 1 and 2 opens as the flow
reverses and allows water from the ponds to be redirected from the ponds to the
headworks.
After primary treatment, wastewater is directed from the headworks to two extended
aeration basins with a combined volume of 0.8 million gallons. The aeration basins are
designed for two 20 HP, low-speed, turbine-type floating aerators. The existing aerators
have reached the end of their 20-year design lives. The aeration basins are constructed
with earthen berms and are lined with impermeable clay liners. The berms are armored
with rock-filled gabions above the water level.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 86]
City of Willits WWTF
ORDER NO. R1-2010-0017
NPDES NO. CA0023060
From the aeration basins, wastewater is directed to a 50-foot diameter, concrete, center-
feed, peripheral clarifier. A center drive sludge collector and sludge collector tubes
discharge into a hopper in the bottom of the clarifier where the sludge flows by gravity to
the return activated sludge (RAS) pump suction header or to an aerobic digester. Two
variable speed drive pumps, with a maximum rate of return of 0.8 mgd each, convey
RAS from the clarifier to the aeration basins. One centrifugal, self-priming pump is used
to convey waste activated sludge (WAS) from the sludge collection hopper at the center
of the clarifier to the aerobic digester. The existing clarifier drive mechanisms are past
their design life.
Disinfection occurs in the chlorine contact chamber, which is designed to provide
disinfection at plug flow hydraulic conditions and has a contact time of 20 minutes at a
flow rate of 2.4 mgd. However, operational staff typically limits flow through the
treatment system to 1.8 mgd, which results in a 30-minute contact time.
From October 1 through May 14, under sufficient stream flow conditions, treated
wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Outlet Creek, just downstream of the
confluence of Broaddus Creek and Baechtel Creek. The discharge to Outlet Creek flows
by gravity through a 24-inch pipe outfall structure located just downstream of a concrete
trapezoid weir located across the creek channel. The outfall pipe discharges at the edge
of the creek just above the water surface. The effluent does not mix well with the
receiving water at the outfall location and can be observed to follow the western bank of
the creek as a discrete plume for some distance below the outfall.
During the winter months when stream flows are insufficient and from May 15 through
September 30, treated wastewater is used for spray irrigation on up to 200 acres of
pasture located near the WWTF.
2. Existing Biosolids Management
Digested sludge is pumped with 15 HP pumps from the aerobic digester to dewatering
and drying stations. Dewatering and drying processes work simultaneously. The drying
station consists of three 50 square foot under-drained sand drying beds, which are used
weather-permitting. The beds are filled to a depth of 1 foot where water either
evaporates or percolates through the sand. Collected filtrate is returned to the plant
influent structure for treatment. Dried sludge is composted on site.
A new 36 inch rotary fan press supplements the dewatering and drying process and
mechanically separates liquids and solids, producing dewatered biosolids at 15 to 18
percent. The rotary fan press is capable of dewatering at a maximum rate of 70 gpm.
The effluent from the rotary fan press is pumped into a 30 cubic yard dump trailer and the
remaining solids are transferred to the composting area.
Composting is achieved through a three-step process including mixing, composting and
curing, and storage. Dewatered biosolids are mixed with wood chips or sawdust at a 1:1
ratio by a front-end loader on a paved area next to the receiving bin. After approximately
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 87]
City of Willits WWTF
ORDER NO. R1-2010-0017
NPDES NO. CA0023060
1 month of residence time, the mixture is moved to a compost pile where it continues to
dry and composting begins. The compost pile is turned each month and is allowed to
compost for 6 to 12 months. The compost mixture is then moved to a storage pile and
allowed to cure for at least a year. The finished compost is then land applied on an 18
acre agricultural parcel owned by the Discharger and located immediately west of the
Facility. Compost is applied to approximately one-third of the parcel (6 acres) each year.
The section receiving compost is fenced to prohibit access by grazing livestock during
the early portion of the growing season.
3. New Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Discharger is planning to upgrade the WWTF during the term of this Order in order
to comply with the regulatory requirements. The proposed WWTF will include primary
treatment at the existing new headworks building, as described above, an enhanced
extended aeration activated sludge mechanical secondary treatment process with
nutrient removal, ultraviolet (UV) disinfection, followed by enhanced effluent treatment
and storage within new treatment wetland. The proposed WWTF will be sized and
constructed to provide current required treatment capacity and accommodate anticipated
growth through 2025. Although treatment components of the proposed WWTF have
been designed to accommodate higher flows, the Discharger has only requested a
permitted discharge of an average monthly flow up to 4.0 mgd.
The new WWTF will replace the existing aeration basins with a new extended aeration
system, providing efficient biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and nutrient removal. A
long solids retention time in the extended aeration system will provide process stability
and, due to the large quantity of biological solids present, wide swings in organic and
hydraulic loads can be handled without adjustments to the process or equipment. The
extended aeration system will also produce well digested and stabilized biomass. The
extended aeration system will be designed for a peak hydraulic capacity of 7.0 mgd.
Each basin will contain eight diffuser chains. The air to each diffuser chain will be
individually controlled by a motorized valve which will operate on a timed cycle during
denitrification mode. When diffuser chains are turned off, anoxic zones are created to
promote denitrification. Of the eight diffuser chains in each basin, six will operate as part
of the timed cycle with three chains on and three off.
The two new basins will be 134 feet wide at grade and 150 feet in length, measured at
the top of the berm, providing a combined volume of 2,437 million gallons. The basins
will be lined with a polypropylene reinforced geomembrane with a minimum thickness of
60 millimeters (mm). The proposed northern basin (Aeration Basin No. 1) will be in the
shadow of the existing WWTF, minimizing interference with existing floodway. However,
some floodway mitigation will be required, including re-grading the eastern section of the
existing drying beds and composting area. Composting and dewatering will be relocated
to the north end of the existing WWTF, west of the proposed Aeration Basin No. 1. This
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 88]
City of Willits WWTF
ORDER NO. R1-2010-0017
NPDES NO. CA0023060
will provide improved access to the sludge handling area and puts the operation in close
proximity to the field where the compost is currently land applied.
The new WWTF upgrades include replacing the existing clarifier with two new circular
clarifiers which will be located west of the new aeration basins. Each clarifier will be 70
feet diameter by 14 feet deep tanks constructed of concrete. The combined capacity of
the two clarifiers will be 7.0 mgd. At a peak flow of 7.0 mgd, the overflow rate of the
clarifiers will be 1,099 gpd/SF. The Discharger plans to replace the two variable speed
drive RAS pumps with three screw centrifugal pumps with a capacity of 1,250 gpm each,
with a maximum return rate of 3.6 mgd. Two pumps will be operated at all times while
one will be reserved for backup. The RAS pumps will be located adjacent to the
clarifiers. The Discharger also plans to install small, certified constant speed pumps in
the blower building for WAS.
Upgrades will include a UV disinfection system which will be installed in the existing
chlorine contact basin. The UV disinfection system will be designed to achieve a median
total coliform organism concentration of less than 23 most probable number per 100
milliliters (MPN/100 mL) and a daily maximum concentration of 230 MPN/100 mL. The
delivered dose is a function of the clarity of the water or the UV transmissivity (UVT).
The proposed design of the system conservatively assumes transmissivity of 55 percent.
If the effluent is shown to have higher transmissivity, then the required system size will
be reduced. The UV disinfection system will be sized to handle capacities as low as
0.35 mgd and as great as 7.0 mgd.
Following disinfection processes, effluent will ultimately be discharged into an
enhancement wetland for further treatment. The enhancement wetland will be
constructed on a 40-acre parcel owned by the Discharger located immediately east of the
existing WWTF on the east side of Outlet Creek. The treatment wetland will consist of
approximately 30 acres of free water surface, with the remaining acreage set aside for
potential wetland and floodplain mitigation and an Outlet Creek setback zone. The
wetland will consist of three cells; each planted with a variety of wetland species and
operated at a normal operating depth of 1 to 2 feet. The wetland will be lined with the
clay soils existing onsite. The exterior berms surrounding the cells will be approximately
8 to 10 feet tall and the interior berms will be 6 feet tall. The Discharger plans for
approximately 3 feet of active storage above the normal operating depth providing
approximately 90 ac-ft of active storage and buffering prior to discharging to Outlet
Creek. An additional 90 acre-feet (ac-ft) of storage (3 foot depth) is proposed above the
active storage volume for use during critical discharge periods to help reduce potential
discharge violations, provide capacity for future growth, and provide another layer of
redundancy and reliability. Each cell in enhancement wetland will be stepped down
approximately 2 feet from south to north. Flow between the cells will be controlled by a
series of weir structures.
A period of two to three growing seasons will be necessary to allow the new
enhancement wetland vegetation to fully establish prior to operation. Flooding of
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 89]
City of Willits WWTF
ORDER NO. R1-2010-0017
NPDES NO. CA0023060
treatment wetlands prior to plant establishment can cause significant loss of wetland
vegetation, leading to short circuiting of the system and ultimately poor performance.
The enhancement wetlands are a critical part of the treatment system and need to be
fully functional to achieve the desired water quality results. This Order requires the
enhancement wetlands be ready for operation no later than October 1, 2012. The
Discharger anticipates that the mechanical portion of the new WWTF will be operational
prior to the October 1, 2012 date. During the interim period, the new mechanical WWTF
will continue to discharge at Discharge Location 001 and other than nitrogen criterion,
compliance with effluent limitations applicable to Discharge Point 003 will be assessed
along with requirements for Discharge Point 002 at Monitoring Location EFF-002.
Beginning October 1, 2012, from October 1 through May 14 each year, treated
wastewater from the enhancement wetland will be discharged to Outlet Creek at
Discharge Point 003, which will be located at the north end of the wetland approximately
2,700 feet downstream of Discharge Point 001. The discharge from the wetland will pass
through a submerged slide gate with a motor actuated operator to a 30-inch outfall pipe.
The outfall pipe will incorporate flow metering to provide control of the outfall discharge
proportional to the measured flow in Outlet Creek. The outfall pipe will consist of
approximately 600 feet of 30-inch pipe, a metering vault, and a concrete outfall structure
located at the creek. Utilizing the full capacity of the enhancement wetland, the proposed
WWTF will be able to maintain the 10 percent discharge rate 99.5 percent of the time at
an average monthly design capacity of 10.0 mgd.
From May 15 through September 30 and any other time seasonally appropriate, treated
wastewater will continue to be recycled as spray irrigation. The Discharger plans to
replace the existing irrigation pump station, vertical turbine pumps, and power

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger intends to construct a new WWTF (as described under section II.A above) to
replace the existing WWTF in accordance with CDO No. R1-2006-0108. This Order will
serve to transition from the existing WWTF to the new WWTF and therefore contains effluent
limitations specific to each. The new WWTF is expected to improve compliance by providing
enhanced secondary treated effluent using a combination of extended aeration activated
sludge secondary treatment processes with nutrient removal, UV disinfection, and enhanced
treatment and storage within new enhancement wetlands. The existing storm
bypass/overflow ponds will continue to provide 16 million gallons of equalization capacity for
peak flows entering the WWTF.
In March 2007, the Discharger submitted a request for a variance to Basin Plan discharge
rate requirements. The variance request addressed requirements contained in the
Implementation Plan section of the Basin Plan (specifically at page 4-2.00). The variance
request identified each constituent of concern (COC) known or reasonably thought to be
present in