[Page 2]
6. The upgraded wastewater treatment facilities include a new headworks with a
rotary hydroscreen system, a screenings washer, and a metering flume; a 2.67 MG
aeration pond; a 0.7 MG settling pond; a prefilter pump station; two
microfiltration modules and microfiltration control facilities to provide advanced
wastewater treatment to a maximum daily flow of 0.58 mgd; and a new chlorine
contact chamber. The upgrade also includes the installation of a floating suction
intake in the on-site effluent storage pond; a new effluent pump station and
additional pipelines to deliver recycled water to urban and agricultural areas that
are not served by the existing recycled water system; and construction of a new
effluent transfer pipeline between Forestville WWTF and the Graton CSD WWTF
to provide operational flexibility between the Forestville and Graton WWTFs.
7. The wastewater disposal/reclamation component of the Permittee’s facilities
consists of a storage system, a surface water discharge system, a recycled water
delivery system, and a transfer pipeline between Forestville and Graton as shown
on Attachment “A” incorporated herein and made a part of this Order. Treated,
disinfected effluent may be directed to one or more of the reclamation/disposal
components. These components are described as follows:
a. Discharge to On-Site Effluent Storage Pond (Discharge Serial No. 001)
After treatment, the advanced treated effluent is discharged to an on-site
effluent storage pond prior to discharge to the land disposal system or the
surface water discharge system. The maximum capacity of the existing on-
site effluent storage pond is 3.25 million gallons. Additional on-site storage
capacity may also be available within the treatment ponds during low flow
periods associated with an ADWF of 0.130 mgd.
The on-site effluent storage pond, and other effluent storage ponds described
in parts c. and d. below, are not part of the treatment system therefore,
technology-based effluent limitations contained in this Order are applicable at
Discharge Serial No. 001, the point of completion of treatment and
3 The terms “advanced treated effluent” and “disinfected tertiary effluent” are used interchangeably in this
permit. Both terms refer to the advanced wastewater treatme

[Page 3]
Findings 4 and 7.d), an off-site storage reservoir, spray irrigation systems and
accompanying appurtenances to provide AWT recycled water to agricultural
and urban landscapes, including school grounds and parks. The irrigation
system consists of over 250 acres with an irrigable capacity of approximately
100 acre-feet per year. The off-site storage pond is an existing 14.7 million
gallon storage reservoir at the Sterling/Iron Horse Vineyards property in
Forestville that will provide additional effluent storage capacity of between
6.5 and 13 million gallons annually. Effluent stored in this pond will be used
for subsequent irrigation of vineyards on the Sterling/Iron Horse Vineyards
property.
The amount of recycled water used for irrigation in any year is dependent on
weather conditions and the amount of land available for irrigation. The
Permittee’s preferred disposal method is irrigation, rather than discharge to
surface waters.
[Page 4]
Waste Discharge Requirements -5-
And Master Reclamation Permit
Order No. R1-2004-0027
d. Transfers To the Graton CSD Storage Ponds (Discharge Serial No. 004)
Disinfected, secondary or disinfected, tertiary treated effluent may be
transferred from Forestville to Graton when Forestville is in need of additional
storage capacity. Disinfected, tertiary effluent delivered via the pipeline after
disinfected, secondary effluent has been in the pipeline would only be
considered tertiary after one full pipe volume of tertiary water passes through
the pipeline.
8. Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in the aeration and
settling ponds. As necessary biosolids will be removed and disposed at a legal
point of disposal. Solids Disposal and Handling Provisions are included in
Section H. of this Order.
9. This facility is a minor discharger as defined in Part 40 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) 122.21(j). Pursuant to Title 23, California Code of
Regulations (CCR), Section 2200, the Permittee is assessed an annual fee based
o

===PLANNED CHANGES===

