[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
Mendocino City CSD owns and operates the wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
facilities that serve approximately 4,000 people, including 1,000 full-time residents and
many visitors and tourists to the City, Russian Gulch State Park, and Headlands State
Park. The WWTF is located at 10500 Kelly Street in Mendocino, Mendocino County,
California.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment or Controls
The WWTF treats domestic and commercial wastewater. The treatment facility has an
average dry weather treatment capacity of 0.3 mgd.
The wastewater collection system includes approximately 12.5 miles of vitrified clay and
PVC pipe, ranging in size from 15 to 4 inches, and three lift stations.
Wastewater treatment processes include comminution, extended aeration activated
sludge, secondary clarification, and tertiary filtration. Effluent is chlorinated, dechlorinated,
and flows by gravity to a flow equalization pond. Influent flow in excess of the design flow
can be routed to a 300,000 gallon overflow pond for storage until flows diminish, when the
excess flow is routed back to the headworks for treatment. Effluent from the equalization
pond is controlled at flow control structure A by sliding stop gates, from which flow
continues to flow control structure B, which has two pressure control valves to prevent
backflow conditions in the outfall. From flow control structure B, effluent is discharged to
the Pacific Ocean at Discharge Point 001 via a 996 foot outfall designed to achieve a
minimal dilution of 100:1. Onsite storm water runoff is diverted to the plant headworks for
treatment.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 67]
Mendocino City CSD
Order No. R1-2010-0020
NPDES Permit No. CA0022870
Solids are aerobically digested, dewatered to approximately 12 percent solids by a belt
press, and dried to approximately 90 percent solids using a sludge dryer. Condensate
from the dryer is directed to the plant headworks for treatment. Biosolids are placed in a
landfill for final disposal.
During the dry weather season (generally May through October) and other periods, as
needed, tertiary treated effluent is discharged to the water recycling system (Discharge
Point 002), which consists of a 55,000 gallon storage tank, accompanying appurtenances,
and a pop-up sprinkler system located on the Mendocino High School athletic fields. The
recycled water system is regulated under Regional Water Board Order No. 97-66.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The treatment facility’s point of discharge to the Pacific Ocean at Discharge Point 001 is
located within the Mendocino Coast Hydrolo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

