[Page 90]
Healdsburg’s sewage, and includes four dry pit 50-hp vertical turbine pumps with
a variable frequency drive level control system. These pumps draw the sewage
from the wet well and pass it through two parallel 3,700 foot long, 14-inch
diameter force mains to the treatment plant. In most circumstances, one pump
operates in a lead position and pumps the entire sewage flow to the treatment
plant. The other two pumps are configured in a standby mode for system
redundancy. During periods of high flow, multiple pumps will run automatically to
handle the increased flow rate. A comminutor/grinder at the lift station reduces
large solids in size to less than a ¼-inch before being pumped to the treatment
plant. Under all but wet weather conditions, the capacity of only one of the two
14-inch force mains is necessary.
Wastewater Treatment
In order to comply with the requirements of Order No. R1-2005-0084, the
Discharger upgraded the Facility to provide advanced wastewater treatment.
Facility upgrades were completed and the new advanced wastewater treatment
system went online on April 15, 2008.
The current Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1.4 mgd
and a maximum peak flow of 4.0 mgd. The treatment system consists of influent
screening and grit removal; biological removal of biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) and nitrogen in aerobic, anoxic, and pre-anoxic basins; membrane
bioreactor (MBR) filtration; ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection; and return activated
sludge pumping from the MBR back to the aeration basins. Waste activated
sludge pumping removes excessive biomass from the system, followed by a
Attachment F – Fact Sheet -F-5-
[Page 91]
CITY OF HEALDSBURG
WASTEWATER TREATMENT, RECLAMATION AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
ORDER NO. R1-2009-0034
NPDES NO. CA0025135
proprietary sludge digestion process, dewatering via centrifuge, and disposal to a
sanitary landfill.
The MBR combines the secondary biological treatment and immersed membrane
filtration processes. The immersed membrane filtration process separates
suspended solids from the wastewater using a very fine filter (i.e., ultrafilter). The
MBR system at the Facility consists of five membrane tanks which contain
immersed membrane filters with a total filter area of at least 250,000 square feet.
The MBR system is designed to treat a peak daily flow of 4.0 mgd in four tanks
with a fifth membrane tank, pump, and compressor available for standby
capacity. Instantaneous peak inflows may exceed 4.0 mgd, and the headworks
structure is sized to accommodate peak inflow spikes up to 9.6 mgd.
Disinfection is achieved in an open channel UV disinfection system with sufficient
low pressure/high output lamps to disinfect a peak daily flow of 4.0 mgd. The UV
disinfection system is located downstream of the MBR tanks. The MBR filtrate
pumps discharge directly to the UV basin. Filtered and UV disinfected
wastewater flows by gravity to the recycled water storage pond or Basalt Pond.
The previous treatment system consisted of five treatment ponds. As part of the
Facility upgrade, two of the treatment ponds (Ponds A1 and A2) were converted
to influent equalization ponds. With a capacity of approximately 5 million gallons,
the converted ponds provide equalization storage capacity for extended wet
weather flows. The remaining three ponds (Ponds 1, 2, and 3) remain available
for use as emergency storage ponds, providing an additional 15 million gallons of
storage capacity. The Discharger has the ability to divert inadequately treated
wastewater from downstream of the UV disinfection system to Ponds 1, 2, and 3,
and return the inadequately treated wastewater from Ponds 1, 2, and 3 to the
headworks and tertiary treatment processes using portable pumping equipment.
The 15 million gallons of capacity in Ponds 1, 2, and 3 provide more than 24
hours of emergency storage capacity during peak flows.
Recycled Water
As part of the treatment plant upgrade, recycled water storage pond with a
synthetic liner was constructed that provides storage for approximately 25 million
gallons of disinfected tertiary treated recycled water. The Discharger plans to
construct a recycled water system in phases as funding is available. Recycled
water will be delivered by an effluent pump station from the recycled water
storage pond to the recycled water system or gravity fed to Basalt Pond,
depending on the seasonal requirements of the NPDES permit. Additional
details about the recycled water system are included in Fact Sheet section II.E–

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet -F-6-
[Page 92]
CITY OF HEALDSBURG
WASTEWATER TREATMENT, RECLAMATION AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
ORDER NO. R1-2009-0034
NPDES NO. CA0025135
Biosolids
The City uses a proprietary solids removal and digestion process that combines
aerobic and anaerobic processes. Solids are periodically removed from the
biological process and transferred to two digester tanks, referred to as
interchange reactors. Transfer to the interchange reactors occurs in a daily
decant/fill process, where decanted clear liquid from the interchange reactors is
returned to the biological process, and the volume decanted is replaced with
solids from the biological process. All solids transferred from the biological
process to the interchange tanks are first passed through a 250 micron rotary
drum screen to remove inert non-biodegradable material, which is compacted
and conveyed to a separate dumpster. In the final solids removal step, digested
solids are pumped from the interchange reactor tanks, dosed with polymer for
thickening, and then dewatered in a centrifuge and conveyed to a dumpster. All
solids are currently being disposed at the Redwood Landfill in Marin County.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility discharges to Basalt Pond (Discharge Point 001), one of several
existing gravel pits that were excavated adjacent to the Russian River in
alluvial deposits of sand and gravel. These deposits are part of an important
groundwater aquifer that supplies domestic and agricultural well water.
Basalt Pond has a surface area of 52 acres, and a maximum depth of 55 feet.
Basalt Pond was excavated between the late 1960s and mid-1980s by the
Basalt Rock Company, as part of their gravel mining operation. Basalt Pond
is currently owned by Syar Industries, Inc. Basalt Pond was excavated in the
historic floodplain of the Russian River. A levee, composed primarily of soil
and alluvial material, was constructed to separate Basalt Pond from surface
flows in the Russian River. The levee is not an engineered barrier designed
for impermeability that would prevent discharges of effluent from reaching the
Russian River.
The discharge of wastewater to Basalt Pond, part of the Russian River, is a
discharge to waters of the United States, and as such requires an NPDES
permit. In an August 6, 2007 decision, the United States Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the decision of the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California that concluded that Basalt Pond is a water of
the United States subject to jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act (CWA)
and that the pollutants traveling to the Russian River via hydrologically
connected groundwater required the Discharger to obtain an NPDES permit.
The Ninth Circuit Court held that discharges to Basalt Pond are subject to the
Clean Water Act because the Basalt Pond (1) contains wetlands that are
adjacent to the Russian River, a navigable water of the United States, and (2)
possesses a significant nexus to the Russian River because waters from the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet -F-7-
[Page 93]
CITY OF HEALDSBURG
WASTEWATER TREATMENT, RECLAMATION AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
ORDER NO. R1-2009-0034
NPDES NO. CA0025135
Basalt Pond seep into the Russian River and significantly affect the physical,
biological and chemical integrity of the Russian River. (Northern Calif. River
Watch v. Healdsburg, 497 F.3d 993 (2007).) Additional details of the District
Court decision can be found in Revised Order No. R1-2005-0084 (January
17, 2008).
2. The Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (hereinafter Basin
Plan) prohibi