[Page 78]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Covelo Community Services District (CCSD) is located in northeastern
Mendocino County approximately 35 miles northeast of Willits. The District is
located in Round Valley and encompasses approximately 150 acres. Construction
of the original WWTF was completed in 1961. It was designed to serve 650
residential customers, and commercial and institutional users equivalent to an
additional 550 people.
The CCSD treatment plant underwent major construction upgrades in 1977 and was
designed to discharge to Grist Creek during wet weather periods and to store treated
wastewater during dry periods, when discharges to the Eel River and its tributaries are
prohibited. The treatment facility was designed with a flow metering flume, bar screen
and comminutor, two lined oxidation ponds that could be operated in series or parallel,
two lined holding ponds, gravity sand filters, and chlorination/dechlorination capability.
Due to high rates of evaporation and percolation during treatment, the WWTF did not
discharge directly to Grist Creek during the term of Order No. R1-2000-16 and
discharged only twice during the term of Order No. R1-2006-0007. Percolation in
treatment and holding ponds was attributed to cracks in pond linings, as well as
damage to clay linings due to erosion and rodent attack. Percolation in the treatment
and holding ponds resulted in unpermitted discharge of partially treated wastewater to
groundwater.
Upgrades are well underway at the WWTF and include addition of a new
headworks and septage receiving station, as well as synthetic lining of three of the
original ponds and installation of an ozone disinfection system. The new headworks
is designed with a parshall flume influent meter, a horizontal grit chamber and
inclined screen. The septage receiving station is composed of a receiving station
and mixing tank allowing septage to be metered in through the headworks at a
controlled rate and time.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 79]
Covelo Community Services District
Order No. R1-2011-0001
NPDES No. CA0023574
High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) liner systems have been installed in three of the
four ponds. The first two lined ponds will be used as oxidation ponds to reduce
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS). The third
lined pond will be divided into two cells and planted with wetland vegetation,
alternating submerged and emergent vegetation. The wetland treatment cells will
further remove BOD and TSS as well as provide for biological reduction of nitrogen
compounds. Planting of wetland vegetation will be conducted in summer 2011.
Ozone treatment consists of redundant ozone generators, an injector system, an
ozone destruction unit, a multi-cell contact tank, and multiple feedback units, which
measure ozone concentrations at various points within the system. Once online, all
treated wastewater will be disinfected using the ozone system prior to surface water
or land discharge. Tablet chlorination / dechlorination capability may be maintained
as a back-up disinfection system for surface water discharges.
The current upgrades to the WWTF are designed to improve effluent water quality
discharged to Grist Creek during the wet weather season (Discharge Point 001)
and allow a land discharge location (Discharge Point 002) in former holding pond
No. 3. Upgrades to the WWTF result in an average annual treatment design
capacity of 0.077 mgd.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The area of the Covelo Community Services District is located within the Upper Eel
River Basin and is drained by Mill Creek, a tributary to the Middle Fork Eel River.
Short, Town, Grist, and Turner Creeks drain into Mill Creek. The WWTF is located
adjacent to To

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Covelo WWTF has already undergone significant upgrades beginning in May
2010 as described in section A of this Fact Sheet. Additional work to be completed in
conjunction with the current upgrades includes wetland planting and full operational
start-up of the ozone disinfection system.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements
and authorities described in this section. This section provides supplemental
information, where appropriate, for the plans, policies, and regulations relevant to the
discharge.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clea