[Page 63]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant and
associated collection system and disposal facilities. The Facility serves approximately
7,000 residential, commercial, and institutional users in the City of Fortuna and 4,000
residential users in the Rohnerville-Campton Heights Area. The current wastewater
treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, influent pumping, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge processes, secondary sedimentation, chlorination, de-
chlorination, as well as anaerobic biosolids digestion, dewatering and composting.
The entire treatment plant site slopes to the Southwest. Storm water that falls on the site
drains to the equalization ponds. At low flow periods, storm drainage is returned to the
wastewater treatment process for treatment before it is discharged.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is currently designed to treat an average dry-weather flow (ADWF) of 1.5
mgd and reports an influent peak wet weather flow (PWWF) capacity of 7.0 mgd. Peak
influent flows over 3-4 mgd are bypassed to three equalization ponds and returned for
treatment during low flow periods.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 64]
ORDER NO. R1-2011-0004
City of Fortuna
NPDES NO. CA0022730
The solids handling facilities are designed to accommodate the approved General Plan
buildout with a capacity of 1.9 mgd. Biosolids generated during the treatment process
are thickened, anaerobically digested and dewatered using a belt filter press. The
dewatered biosolids are currently composted to meet Exceptional Quality Class (EQ)
requirements. EQ materials may be stored up to one year on-site and land applied in
accordance with EPA 503 requirements. .
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The City of Fortuna is located within the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel
River Hydrologic Area within the Eel River Hydrologic Unit. The wastewater treatment
plant is located alon

===PLANNED CHANGES===

