[Page 71]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The City of Crescent City owns and operates the wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal facilities that serve Crescent City and the surrounding County Service Area (CSA).
The CSA has two subareas, the Northwest area to the north of the City and the Bertsch
Ocean View area to the east. As of 2007, the City of Crescent City and the CSA had
service area populations of 5,596 and 9,977, respectively. The WWTF is located at 210
Battery Street in Crescent City, Del Norte County, California.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment or Controls
The City of Crescent City WWTF treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater.
The treatment facility has a design average dry weather treatment capacity of 1.86 million
gallons per day (mgd) and a peak wet weather flow of 6.12 mgd. The Discharger currently
has one Significant Industrial User (Rumiano Cheese Company) that is covered under a
pretreatment permit to discharge to the WWTF. The Discharger is also in negotiations
with Alber Seafood Processors and the Crescent City Harbor District that would facilitate
the connection of the seafood processor directly to the Discharger’s sanitary sewer system
and increase to two the number of Significant Industrial Users.
The City and CSA maintain separate sanitary sewer collection systems, with flows
collected in the CSA area joining the City collection system. The combined flow is then
conveyed to the WWTF, owned and operated by the City of Crescent City.
Treatment processes at the Crescent City WWTF consist of headworks, including a
mechanically cleaned screen, a Parshall flume, and a wetwell; primary treatment, including
two grit removal tanks and two clarifiers; and secondary treatment. Secondary treatment
is provided by operating rotating biological contactors and a membrane bioreactor (MBR)
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 72]
Crescent City Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2011-0019
NPDES Permit No. CA0022756
in parallel. Flows from the rotating biological contactors and any flow from the MBR unit
that is not used for recycled water use are commingled and disinfected and dechlorinated.
Flow from the MBR that is used for recycled water is disinfected with ultraviolet light (UV)
prior to discharge to the reclamation system.
The Discharger proposes to use recycled water to irrigate Beach Front Park, which is
located northeast of the WWTF. The Discharger has applied to the State Water
Resources Control Board for coverage under the State Water Board Water Quality Order
No. 2009-0006-DWQ (General Permit for Landscape Irrigation Uses of Municipal
Recycled Water.)
The capacity of the reclamation system is 1.2 mgd; however, the membrane bioreactor
can treat up to 1.6 mgd. Effluent that is not recycled is discharged to the Pacific Ocean.
The 24-inch diameter ductile iron pipe outfall discharges into a rocky slot in the surf zone
adjacent to Battery Point Lighthouse, and has an effluent conveyance capacity up to 13
mgd.
Solids handling consists of gravity thickening of primary sludge, rotary drum thickening of
secondary sludge, and anaerobic digestion of thickened sludge. Dewatered solids are
currently placed in a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The treatment facility’s point of discharge to the Pacific Ocean at Discharge Point 001 is
located at 41º 44’ 38” N latitude and 124º 12’ 10” W longitude. The outfall structure is
sloped downward and discharges into a natural slot formed in the basalt forming Battery
Point.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent

[Page 73]
1. Violation Summary
During the term of the previous order, violations were assessed for exceedances of
effluent limitations for BOD , fecal coliform bacteria, ammonia, total chlorine residual,
5
copper, oil and grease; for reporting violations; receiving water violations; and violations of
pretreatment program requirements. Violations of BOD , fecal coliform, ammonia, and
5
chlorine residual have been largely eliminated as a result of the completion of upgrades to
the secondary treatment and disinfection systems at the WWTF in August 2010.
Violations of effluent limitations occurring since March 2006 are summarized as follows:
BOD , weekly average: 13 violations
5
2 Monthly median value.
3
Not more than 10 percent of samples in any calendar month shall exceed 43 MPN/100 mL.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 74]
Crescent City Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2011-0019
NPDES Permit No.

[Page 75]
ACL Complaint No. R1-2007-0061: This Complaint was issued for exceedances of
limitations for fecal coliform bacteria, BOD , TSS, and oil and grease, in addition to the
5
occurrence of two sanitary sewer overflows that occurred during the term of the previous
permit. ACL Order No. R1-2008-0018 was adopted and required the Discharger to pay a
sum to the Cleanup and Abatement Account, and to complete a Compliance Project (CP)
and a Project in lieu of paying the remaining MMPs. Installation of UV disinfection
satisfied the CP requirement and upgrade of the facility headworks satisfied the Project
requirement.
ACL Complaint No. R1-2010-0018: This Complaint assessed MMPs for violations of
effluent limits for BOD , fecal coliform, total residual chlorine, and ammonia; late annual
5
reports; exceedances of receiving water objectives; and missed monitoring events.
3. Recent Improvements to WWTF Affecting Compliance
In 2007, the Discharger began construction of upgrades to the WWTF to improve effluent
quality and to comply with enforcement actions issued by the Regional Water Board, as
enumerated in the previous section. The WWTF upgrades included the installation of the
previously-described MBR unit, new solids dewatering equipment, and rehabilitation of the
headworks, primary clarifiers, solids thickening, and the anaerobic digesters. The WWTF
upgrade also included the installation of a new UV disinfection system and effluent reuse
pumping station downstream of the MBR process. The UV system treats wastewater
flows up to 1.2 mgd to title 22 tertiary standards. The upgrade projects were completed in
August 2010.
Monitoring data since the MBR unit went on-line in August to October 2010 document
markedly lower effluent concentrations of BOD and ammonia, with concentrations 70-
5
80% less than efflu

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
[Page 76]
Crescent City Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2011-0019
NPDES Permit No. CA0022756
The Discharger plans to construct waste chemical storage facilities for temporary storage
of membrane bioreactor (MBR) cleaning chemicals. The waste storage system will
capture and store waste chlorine and citric acid used for membrane cleaning. When the
MBR is in need of cleaning, the stored cleaning chemicals will be slowly introduced into
the treatment system to avoid upsets or conditions that could result in effluent violations.
The Discharger is also contemplating whether to construct a septage receiving facility at
the WWTF to satisfy the need for local septage disposal. As described in preliminary
discussions with Region