[Page 72]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a secondary municipal wastewater treatment facility
(WWTF) and associated wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a
population of approximately 1,250 in the Community of Redway.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The secondary treatment process at the Facility consists of a 300,000-gallon capacity
oxidation ditch, secondary clarifier, and chlorine disinfection and dechlorination facilities.
From October 1 through May 14, treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge
Point 001 to the South Fork Eel River. From May 15 through September 30, treated
wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 002 to percolation ponds located in an
upland area away from the river channel and floodplain. The percolation ponds are
located on property adjacent to the WWTF across a deep ravine. Treated wastewater is
conveyed to the percolation ponds via a suspended transmission line. Although the
percolation ponds appear to perform sufficiently to accept wintertime flows, the
transmission line limits the amount of effluent that can be disposed in this manner.
Consequently, due to wintertime infiltration and inflow (I/I), when flows exceed 0.350
mgd, the Discharger transmits effluent to the South Fork Eel River for disposal. The
Facility is located within the Benbow Subarea of the South Fork Eel River Hydrologic
Area.
Solids are removed from the secondary clarifier and pumped to a sludge thickener,
sludge drying beds. A small portion of solids may be returned from the clarifier to the
inlet structure prior to the oxidation ditch. Supernatant from the thickener is also
returned to the inlet structure prior to the oxidation ditch. Dried sludge is buried in
trenches on the wooded property owned by the Discharger north of the Facility.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 73]
Redway Community Services District, Redway WWTF
ORDER NO. R1-2011-0046
NPDES NO. CA0022781
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Facility discharges to the South Fork Eel River from Discharge Point 001 during the
period October 1 through May 14 i

===PLANNED CHANGES===

