[Page 79]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a secondary municipal wastewater treatment facility
(WWTF) and associated wastewater collection and disposal facilities. The Facility is
located southeast of Rio Dell, California adjacent to the Lower Eel River and serves a
population of approximately 3,100 in the City of Rio Dell. From October 1 through May 14,
treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to the Lower Eel River, just
downstream of the Highway 101 Bridge. From May 15 through September 30, treated
wastewater is discharged to a percolation pond adjacent to the Lower Eel River. The
discharge to the Lower Eel River is located within the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the
Lower Eel River Hydrologic Area.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The secondary treatment process at the existing WWTF consists of an automatic
screen and grit removal system, primary clarifiers, rotating biological contactors (RBCs),
secondary clarifiers, and chlorine disinfection and dechlorination facilities. Flow
capacity is not a concern in dry summer months, but excessive infiltration and inflow (I/I)
during the winter can cause partially treated wastewater to overflow the RBCs, flooding
portions of the Facility.
The Discharger plans to construct upgrades to the existing WWTF, a new treated
effluent pipeline and a treated effluent disposal system within the effective period of this
Order. The upgrades to the WWTF will include a new headworks pumping system; a
secondary treatment and solids stabilization system that will replace the existing primary
clarifiers, RBCs, secondary clarifiers, and aerobic digesters; chlorination and effluent
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 80]
City of Rio Dell, Rio Dell WWTP
ORDER NO. R1-2011-0054
NPDES NO. CA0022748
pumping systems; and new laboratory and office facilities. The majority of the new
treatment components will be located at the southern end of the site, with many of the
existing facilities abandoned in place. The permitted flow through the new WWTF is
reduced to an aver

===PLANNED CHANGES===

