[Page 57]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is a secondary treatment plant located at 399 Chandler Place, in the City
of San Bernardino. The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and ir)dustrial wastes
generated within the Cities of San Bernardino, Highland and Lorna Linda, Patton State
Hospital, unincorporated areas of San Bernardino County, and within the service area
of East Valley Water District. The Facility services a population of about 286,300.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility.
1
The Facility has a design capacity of 33 mgd for secondary treatment and
disinfection. The general treatment processes consists of screening and grit removal,
followed by primary clarification, biological oxidation with nitrification and
denitrification, secondary clarification, and chlorination. Attachment C provides a flow
schematic of the different treatment trains at the Facility.
Normally, effluent from the Facility is directed to the Colton/San Bernardino Regional
Tertiary Treatment and Water Reclamation Agency's Rapid Infiltration and Extraction
Facility for further treatment and disposal. Intermittently, the secondary treated and
disinfected wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Reach 5 of the Santa
Ana River at the confluence with East Twin Creek. These discharges occur only when
there is sufficient flow in the River to provide 20:1 or more dilution. East Twin Creek
and the Santa Ana River are waters of the United States. During dry years, discharges
may occur only two to three times per year. However, during wetter periods, several
days of discharge may occur in a single month; for example, 102 million gallons of
treated wastewater was discharged over a 17-day period in April 2011.
Sludge generated at this facility is anaerobically digested and dewatered using belt
presses and centrifuge. The dewatered sludge is hauled away by a contractor.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Facility is located in the northern half of Section 22, T1S, R4W, SBB&M. The
Discharger discharges secondary treated and disinfected wastewater under conditions
of 20:1 or more dilution into Reach 5 of the Santa Ana River at the confluence with
East Twin Creek via Discharge Point 001, located at latitude 34° 04' 14" Nand
longitude 117° 17' 13" W.
The Facility is divided into two areas with respect to stormwater collection and
discharge. One area has a collection box where a pump has been installed to pump
accumulated runoff to the treatment plant headworks. Occasionally, during torrential
rainstorms, the collection box may become inundated faster than the pumps can
transfer water to the headworks. In such cases, storm water will be discharged from
storm water outfall S-002. The other area discharges into a storm drain (S-001) that
leads into the City's storm drainage system and eventually into the Santa Ana River.
Estimated annualized average based on dry weather conditions.
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 58]
City of San Bernardino Municipal Water Department
Water Reclamation Facility

===PLANNED CHANGES===

