[Page 7]
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system is composed of flow equalization tanks, an aeration basin, three
digesters, a sludge dewatering unit, a secondary clarifier, a chlorine contact basin, a
600,000-gallon storage pond, SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) and
controls system. A summary of the treatment system is included in Table 2 below. A
facility site map, a process flow diagram, and a figure depicting disposal and use areas
are shown in Attachment 2, and are also described in detail in the Title 22 Engineering
Report. Use area operations and requirements are included in Section 6 of the Title 22
Engineering Report.
Table 2. Activated Sludge Treatment, Disposal, and Capacity
Peak dry weather daily influent design flow evaluated in
2025 Engineering Report: 35,000 gallons per day (gpd)
Design Flows
Original (prior to 1983) treatment design influent average
flow: 80,000 gpd
The headworks consists of a single static bar screen
Headworks/Preliminary
designed to screen solids. Water can then be pumped into
Treatment
one of two-5,000 gallon equalization tanks.
Primary treatment is an activated sludge system, which is
a package type treatment system. The treatment process
is classified as extended aeration.
Secondary treatment consists of a clarifier. The clarifier is
Treatment equipped with three coned tank sections. Each coned
section is equipped with two airlift pumps – one airlift pump
is for return sludge and the other removes scum from the
surface. The clarified secondary effluent then flows over a
weir from each zone to the disinfection process.
The disinfection system is a chlorine contact basin which
includes sodium hypochlorite storage and chemical feed
Disinfection system. Operations maintain a minimum total chlorine
residual of 5 milligrams per liter (mg/L) with a normal
operational goal between 7 to 12 mg/L.
The treated effluent is conveyed into a 4-acre-foot unlined
Effluent Storage Pond
effluent storage pond. The majority of the water is recycled
and Disposal
to an ajacent horse pasture area via spray irrigation.
Biosolids/Sludge The solids handling system is composed of three 5,000
Production and gallon aerobic digester tanks and a Draimad sludge
Handling bagging system.
2
[Page 8]
Indian Springs NOA, Attachment 1 December 9, 2025
This wastewater system produces disinfected secondary-
Non-Potable, Title 22 23 recycled water. Recycled water is pumped from the
Recycled Water pond and then sprayed to irrigate the approximately 12-
acre horse pasture.
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
California American Water must operate the facility in accordance with the General
Permit and this notice of applicability.5 Wastewater is treated at the Facility with an
activated sludge treatment system. California American Water must operate the system
to comply with the effluent limits below.
3.1. Effluent Limits
California American Water must comply with the site-specific limits listed in Table 3
and recycled water producer requirements in Table 5.
Table 3. Wastewater Limits for Activated Sludge
Point of
Constituent Unit Limitation (timeframe)
Compliance1
35,000 (maximum monthly
Influent
Flow gpd average) 3
(IS-1)
80,000 (maximum daily flow)
Effluent after
Total Suspended 30 (maximum monthly average)
mg/L2 chlorine contact
Solids (TSS) 45 (maximum 7-day average)
basin (ES-1)
Five-Day
Effluent after
Biochemical 30 (maximum monthly average)
mg/L chlorine contact
Oxygen Demand 45 (maximum 7-day average)
basin (ES-1)
(BOD )
5
% Influent (IS-1)
Total Nitrogen Influent compared to
50% Removal
(as N)4 versus Effluent Storage
Effluent Pond (ES-2)
Effluent after
6.5 (minimum daily)
pH5 pH units chlorine contact
8.3 (maximum daily)
basin (ES-1)
Effluent after
Settleable 0.3 (maximum daily)
mL/L chlorine contact
Solids6 0.1 (maximum quarterly average)
basin (ES-1)
1 Refer to monitoring and reporting program for sampling locations.
5 General Permit section B.1.b. states that treatment and disposal of wastewater must demonstrate best
practicable treatment or control for wastewater, which shall be demonstrated by compliance with the
General Permit, effluent limits in the General Permit, and compliance with

===PLANNED CHANGES===

