[Page 85]
1. The Camarillo WRP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather design
capacity of 7.25 mgd. Untreated wastewater is collected from the City of Camarillo and
an unincorporated section of Ventura County. Influent undergoes preliminary treatment
through aerated grit removal and mechanical bar screening. Wastewater is then split into
two streams, distributing one third of the flow to Plant 1 and two thirds of the flow to Plant
3. The wastewater undergoes primary clarification, nitrification and denitrification for
biological nitrogen removal (BNR), secondary clarification, flow equalization, filtration,
disinfection using sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 46,500 people. The wastewater is a
mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to
title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403 under the City of
Camarillo’s Pretreatment Program, which was submitted to the Regional Water Board for
approval on July 9, 1982. The City of Camarillo’s pretreatment program currently
consists of four permitted nondomestic dischargers. All four are classified as significant
industrial users (SIUs) pursuant to 40 CFR 403.3(v) and as categorical industrial users
(CIUs). One CIU is an electrical and electronic components/semiconductor facility
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 5/8/2014, Amendment: 07/09/2015) F-5
[Page 86]
CAMARILLO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2014-0062-A01
CAMARILLO WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053597
subject to 40 CFR Part 469 Subpart A; one CIU is a metal finisher subject to 40 CFR 433;
and the remaining two CIUs are metal molding and casting/aluminum casting facilities
subject to 40 CFR Part 464, subpart A. Camarillo SD also has a fats, oils, and grease
(FOG) program that was initiated in February 2008, under which food establishments are
inspected every year. Camarillo WRP does not accept hauled waste.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment:
Grit removal and screening: Grit is a wide assortment of inorganic solids such as
pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments. Grit is removed by aeration.
Larger solids are mechanically removed by using bar screens. This material is collected
and disposed of at a landfill.
Primary clarification: In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out and returned to the
anaerobic digesters for additional treatment. Primary-treated wastewater is sent to the
BNR basins.
Secondary Clarification: Wastewater that has received primary clarification enters the
activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen removal using the Modified Ludzak-Ettinger
(MLE) process. Wastewater that has undergone the nitrification/denitrification process is
sent to the flow equalization basins. Secondary treated wastewater is sent to an
equalization basin and is either stored for future treatment, or is sent to the filters.
Equalization Basins: Equalization basins allow for adjustments of flow to the filters
throughout the day and during storm events. They help the system run closer to a steady
state condition.
Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended or
colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through AquaDisk tertiary cloth
filters. In the case of Camarillo WRP, nylon needle felt is the filtration media. Filters
remove the solids that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby
improving the disinfection efficiency and reliability. The maximum loading rate for these
filters in 6 gallons per minute per square foot. Filter backwash water is returned to the
headworks for treatment.
Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the chlorine contact
chamber. The disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent to destroy bacteria,
pathogens, and viruses, and to minimize algal growth.
Dechlorination: Prior to discharge to Conejo Creek, sodium bisulfite is added to the
treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a landfill.
Sludge from secondary clarifiers is pumped either to the MLE process (return activated
sludge), or to the aerobic digester for further treatment. Sludge from the drying beds is
hauled away to an off-site composting facility.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Under normal conditions, treated wastewater is discharged by gravity flow from Discharge
Point 001A to Conejo Creek, a water of the United States, and tributary to Calleguas Creek
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 5/8/2014, Amendment: 07/09/2015) F-6
[Page 87]
CAMARILLO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2014-0062-A01
CAMARILLO WATER RECLAMATION PLA

===PLANNED CHANGES===

