[Page 77]
2. Wastewater Treatment
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry-weather flow (ADWF) of 3.01 million
gallons per day (mgd) and a peak wet-weather flow (PWWF) of 7.0 mgd of advanced
treated wastewater (AWT). The Facility produces disinfected secondary effluent for
discharge to the three percolation ponds and disinfected, dechlorinated AWT effluent
for direct discharge to the Russian River. Between 2006 and 2009, the Permittee
completed a Facility upgrade project that increased the ADWF capacity from 2.8 to
3.01 mgd. The upgraded wastewater treatment train consists of a new influent
pumping station, bar screen facility and grit removal, conversion of the former
secondary clarifiers to primary clarifiers, new trickling filter pumping station,
modifications to the trickling filter distribution arms, conversion of the former primary
clarifiers to solids contact tanks, new secondary clarifiers, modifications to the chlorine
contactor pipe, disinfection system, AWT pump pad, AWT chlorine contact system,
wash water recovery ponds, new dissolved air flotation thickeners, and conversion of
the floating covers on the anaerobic digesters to fixed covers. The treatment system
consists of primary sedimentation, trickling filters, secondary sedimentation,
coagulation, filtration, chlorination, dechlorination, and biosolids digestion and
dewatering. Solids handling facilities consist of anaerobic digesters and a belt press
for dewatering. All treated wastewater is chlorinated prior to disposal. Contact time to
ensure adequate chlorination of secondary effluent occurs in a 600-foot long 8-foot
diameter underground pipeline. The AWT chlorination facility consists of two concrete-
lined aboveground baffled basins. The Facility has the ability to dechlorinate
disinfected effluent prior to discharging to the Russian River.
3. Biosolids
Biosolids generated during the treatment process are reduced, treated, and
removed. Biosolids are thickened in the dissolved air flotation (DAF) units and sent
to the anaerobic digesters for stabilization. The stabilized solids are removed and
dewatered using a belt-press prior to being sent to an authorized landfill. All
biosolids meet EPA Class B standards.
Prior to installation of the belt press for sludge dewatering, sludge ponds were used
at the Facility for sludge storage. Biosolids that remain in the sludge ponds are
being removed during the summer months and spread in the old sludge drying bed.
After drying, the biosolids are disposed of in an authorized landfill. This will continue
until the sludge ponds are empty. Presently, the City has no plans to renovate the
ponds.
Attachment F –Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 78]
ORDER NO. R1-2012-0068
CITY OF UKIAH
NPDES NO. CA0022888
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The treatment and disposal facilities and part of the collection system are located in
the Upper Russian River Hydrologic Basin (Ukiah Hydrologic Subarea) in portions of
section 33, T15N, R12W, MDB&M.
2. The Facility is located adjacent to the Russian River and has three percolation
ponds with a combined storage capacity of 115 million gallons. The City discharges
disinfected secondary wastewater to the percolation ponds year-round. Percolation
pond 1 is 14.7 acres and has a design percolation rate of 50,000 gpd per acre.
Percolation pond 2 is 14.7 acres and has a design percolation rate of 80,000 gpd per
acre. Percolation pond 3 is 12.4 acres and has a design percolation rate of 175,000
gpd per acre. These ponds are maintained to maximize percolation by alternately
ripping the bottom of one pond each summer to increase the ponds’ permeability.
The ponds’ bottoms slope toward the river.
3. The Facility also has an outfall pipe, designated as Discharge Point 001, which is
used to discharge disinfected, dechlorinated AWT effluent directly to the Russian
River, waters of the United States, during the wet-weather season (October 1
through May 14). The Permittee preferentially discharges disinfected secondary
effluent to its percolation ponds and utilizes its AWT facilities and outfall as needed
to balance flows.
4. In 2010 and 2011, wet winters followed by late rains into May and June, caused the
percolation ponds to fill to capacity and the Permittee was unable to completely
empty any of the ponds through percolation or direct river discharge in the
subsequent discharge season. The Permittee’s water balance is dependent on
having sufficient percolation pond capacity available at the beginning of each rainy
season. In addition, the Permittee is limited to discharging up to one-percent of the
River flow, and the Permittee has stated that Russian River flows have decreased
over the years, perhaps due to lower water releases from Lake Mendocino. The
Permittee has evaluated this situation and identified two methods of improving its
water balance. First,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

