[Page 54]
C. Existing Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The existing Facility is designed to provide secondary treatment and disinfection for an
average dry weather flow of up to 0.1 mgd. Daily flows in the wet weather months can
average more than 0.3 mgd. The existing Facility consists of a headworks with influent
flow meter and grease trap, three facultative treatment ponds, and chlorination facilities
utilizing gaseous chlorine. The existing Facility also includes two effluent storage ponds
and one emergency storage pond for a total storage volume of 5.1 million gallons, and
28.5 acres of pasture on land owned by the Discharger that is irrigated with disinfected
secondary effluent. The existing Facility is inadequately designed to meet the goal of
storing treated effluent during the winter months and reclaiming disinfected, secondary
effluent during dry months. For many years, the effluent has not consistently me

[Page 54]
C. Existing Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The existing Facility is designed to provide secondary treatment and disinfection for an
average dry weather flow of up to 0.1 mgd. Daily flows in the wet weather months can
average more than 0.3 mgd. The existing Facility consists of a headworks with influent
flow meter and grease trap, three facultative treatment ponds, and chlorination facilities
utilizing gaseous chlorine. The existing Facility also includes two effluent storage ponds
and one emergency storage pond for a total storage volume of 5.1 million gallons, and
28.5 acres of pasture on land owned by the Discharger that is irrigated with disinfected
secondary effluent. The existing Facility is inadequately designed to meet the goal of
storing treated effluent during the winter months and reclaiming disinfected, secondary
effluent during dry months. For many years, the effluent has not consistently met water
quality standards and requirements in Order No. 85-162. In addition, storage volume is
insufficient to handle winter season wastewater flows, rainfall, and infiltration and inflow
(I&I) and the Discharger has discharged disinfected, secondary treated effluent to land
adjacent to Stemple Creek to prevent overtopping of its storage ponds. These violations
resulted in Cease and Desist Order No. 98-33 being adopted by the Regional Water
Board on March 26, 1998.
The wastewater collection system consists of approximately 30,000 linear feet of
various pipe materials, including polyvinyl chloride, high density polyethylene (HDPE),
cast iron, ductile iron, and vitrified clay that range in size from 4 to10 inches in
diameter. The majority of all sanitary sewer flow is conveyed by gravity to the Facility.
The Discharger is enrolled under State Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ,
Statewide General Waste

[Page 55]
WDID No. 1B72033OSON
irrigated with recycled water. The Discharger plans to construct wastewater treatment
and storage facilities to handle the increased population of 2,200 (phase 2), although
some facilities, such as aeration basins needed for phase 2 may be constructed, but
no aeration equipment would be installed until needed. The reclamation system will
be constructed to handle recycled water flows that result from the phase 1 population
increase and will be expanded when the population increases above the phase 1
population of 1,700.
The new Facility includes a new headworks including flow monitoring and automated
screening and grit removal; a flow equalization basin; secondary treatment facilities
consisting of an activated sludge system with biological nutrient removal (BNR); and
chlorine disinfection facilities utilizing sodium hypochlorite. The activated sludge units
consist of primary and secondary aeration basins, settling compartments and aerobic
digestion compartments. BNR will be accomplished using sequenced aeration in a
series of aeration tank compartments. The secondary treatment facility will be divided
into two trains to provide flexibility of loading efficiency and redundancy for
maintenance. The new secondary treatment process units are designed to treat an
average dry weather flow of 0.197 mgd and a sustained flow of 625 gallons per minute
(0.9 mgd) for a duration of a month. The influent pumps will be set at 0.9 mgd to
ensure that the peak treatment capacity is never exceeded and excess influent flows
will be directed to the flow equalization basin which will allow the facility to handle a
peak wet weather flow of 3.036 mgd. This is the flow that is identified as the peak wet
weather flow in Table 3 and Discharge Prohibition III.J of the Order.
The new Facility also includes sludge handling and storage facilities that will consist of
a belt filter press housed in an enclosed building and 6 bays of redundant dewatering
facilities and storage. All of the storage bays will be constructed with concrete floors.
Two of the storage bays will be outfitted with synthetic filter media to act as sludge
drying beds for redundancy in operations. All bays slope toward a trench drain that
will route flows back to the headworks for treatment. The Discharger plans to land
apply treated, dewatered sludge on-site and plans to enroll under the statewide
biosolids general permit and will develop a sludge management plan consistent with
that permit.
The new Facility will also include expanded storage ponds with a capacity of 70 million
gallons and disposal of disinfected secondary treated effluent on 84 acres of
agricultural spray fields owned by the Discharger and used by a local rancher to grow
grass crop to be harvested and used as feed for dairy cows. Initially, the Discharger
plans to develop 73 acres of agricultural spray field. An additional 11 acres of
agricultural spray field will be added

===PLANNED CHANGES===

