[Page 25]
2. All spills, unauthorized discharges, and sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs)
less than 1,000 gallons that do not reach a drainage channel or a surface
water:
a. As soon as possible, but not later than twenty-four (24) hours after
becoming aware of the discharge, the Discharger shall notify the
Regional Water Board and provide the applicable information in
requirement 1.a of this section.
b. In the cover letter of the SMR, the Discharger shall include a written
description of the spill event.
Attachment D – Fact Sheet C-9
[Page 26]
The City of Blue Lake WWTF
Order No. R1-2012-0050
WDID No. 1B811290HUM
D
ATTACHMENT D – FACT SHEET
I. FACILITY INFORMATION
A. Background.
The City of Blue Lake (hereinafter Discharger) is currently discharging pursuant to
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 94-28. The Discharger submitted a Report
of Waste Discharge (ROWD), on September 29, 2009, and applied for renewal of
waste discharge requirements to discharge up to 0.18 mgd of treated wastewater from
the City of Blue Lake Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF) (hereinafter Facility) to
land owned by the Discharger.
B. General Facility Information
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
facility that provides sewerage service to the City, the Blue Lake Industrial Park, the
Blue Lake Rancheria Tribe casino and hotel, Blue Lake Power, and a few residents
located outside city limits. The wastewater system has 660 connections, of which 23
are industrial connections. Four of these industrial connections - the Mad River
Brewery, the Blue Lake Rancheria, Calgon Carbon Corporation and Blue Lake Power
- are considered significant users.
C. Existing Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The Discharger owns and operates a waste water system comprised of a collection
system, treatment facility, and subsurface disposal. The treatment facility consists of
four oxidation ponds, chlorine disinfection, a rock filter and three percolation ponds for
effluent disposal.
The wastewater system serves the City, the Blue Lake Industrial Park, the Blue Lake
Rancheria Tribe casino and hotel, Blue Lake Power and a few residents located
outside City limits. The wastewater system has 660 connections, of which 23 are
industrial connections. Four of these industrial connections, the Mad River Brewery,
the Blue Lake Rancheria, Calgon Carbon Corporation and Blue Lake Power are
considered significant users.
The collection system consists of a conventional gravity collection system with two lift
stations, which pump wastewater to a headworks facility. At the headworks,
wastewater is processed through the comminuter, and an inclined screening unit that
grinds, washes, dewaters, and removes inert solids.
Wastewater is then pumped to a 7.5 acre four cell pond system for secondary
treatment. The treatment ponds are designated Pond Nos. 1 through 4. Pond No. 1
is 2.7 acres and has an estimated 1-acre portion that is 11 feet deep. This pond
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-1
[Page 27]
The City of Blue Lake WWTF
Order No. R1-2012-0050
WDID No. 1B811290HUM
contains three surface aerators. Pond Nos. 2 - 4 are stabilization ponds that vary
from 5 to 6 feet deep and provide treatment including sedimentation, solids
stabilization, and storage.
Treated effluent discharged from Pond No. 4 is disinfected with chlorine prior to
passing through the rock filter or discharging into the percolation ponds. The chlorine
contact chamber is a 400 foot long, 18-inch diameter pipe, that at full flow has an
average contact time of 30 minutes and at peak day flow has a contact time of 5
minutes. The rock filter consists of 2.5 feet of pea gravel and was designed to treat
0.15 MGD of treated effluent. The filter is utilized during the summer months to
remove algae.
Effluent from the treatment facility is discharged to three rapid infiltration basins. The
three basins are designated Percolation Pond Nos. 1 through 3, located near the bank
of the Mad River. Pond Nos. 1 and 3 have floor areas of approximately 1 acre. Pond
No. 2 has a floor area of approximately 0.5 acres. Only one basin is used at a time.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the WWTF. Attachment B provides
a flow schematic of the WWTF.
II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code). This Order als

===PLANNED CHANGES===

