[Page 68]
II. FACdIiLsIcThYar DgeE. S TChReI PapTpIOlicNa t ion was deemed complete on February 7, 2012.
The City owns the wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilities that serve
approximately 16,800 people in the City of Arcata and the unincorporated community of
Glendale. The WWTF is located at 600 South G Street in Arcata, Humboldt County,
California. The City of Arcata WWTF in its varying forms has been discharging to Humboldt
1
BAa. yB saincckeg arboouuntd 1 949.
Adopted on May 16, 1974, Resolution No. 74-43, known as the Bays and Estuaries Policy,
prohibits the discharge of municipal wastewater and industrial process water to
enclosed bays and estuaries “unless the discharge enhances the quality of the receiving
2
water above that which would occur in the absence of the discharge.” The Bays and
Estuaries Policy enhancement criteria is defined as, "…(1) Full uninterrupted protection
of all beneficial uses which could be made of the receiving water body in the absence of
all point source discharge(s) along with (2) a demonstration by the applicant that the
1
City of Arcata, Pilot Study, draft Environmental Impact Report, July, 1979.
2
State Water Resources Control Board, Water Quality Control Policy For The Enclosed Bays and Estuaries of
California, May 1974
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 69]
City of Arcata Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2012-0031
NPDES Permit No. CA0022713
discharge, through the creation of new beneficial uses or fuller realization, enhances
water quality for those beneficial uses which could be made of the receiving water in the
3
absence of all point source discharges..."
In the fall of 1974, the City of Arcata first began to pursue an exemption from the Bays
and Estuaries Policy, and in the spring of 1977, the City brought forward a project
4
consisting of a marsh treatment process with a discharge to Humboldt Bay.
In 1979, after holding a fact-finding hearing, State Water Board issued Order 79-20,
interpreting the provision of the Bays and Estuaries Policy that provided for an
exemption from the discharge of municipal wastewater into an enclosed bay, such as
Humboldt Bay. In that decision, the State Board concluded that there was a reasonable
probability that the discharge of secondary, disinfected and dechlorinated effluent into
Humboldt Bay, together with a treatment process which either created new beneficial
uses or resulted in a fuller realization of existing beneficial uses, such as the marsh
treatment process proposed by Arcata, could enhance the receiving water quality. The
State Board further concluded that enhancement required: (1) full secondary treatment,
with disinfection and dechlorination, of sewage discharges; (2) compliance with any
additional NPDES permit requirements issued by the Regional Board to protect
beneficial uses; and (3) the fuller realization of existing beneficial uses or the creation of
5
new beneficial uses either by or in conjunction with a wastewater treatment project. A
pilot project funded by the State Water Resources Control Board in 1981 was designed
and implemented by the City to demonstrate the effectiveness of wetland treatment in
meeting water quality treatment standards. The final report from this pilot was
67
accepted by the Regional Board .
In 1983, the Regional Water Board adopted Resolution No. 83-9, granting the City of
Arcata a waiver, as defined in Chapter I, Paragraph A of the Bays and Estuaries Policy,
permitting continued [Humboldt] Bay discharge. Resolution No. 83-9 found that the
marsh disposal alternative meets the definition of enhancement set forth in State Board
3
State Water Resources Control Board, Bill Dendy Memorandum to Regional Water Board Executive Officer David
Joseph, October 21, 1974
4
City of Arcata, draft Wastewater Treatment, Water Reclamation, and Ocean Ranching, April 18, 1977
5
State Board Order No. 79-20, May 17, 1979
6
Gearheart, R.A.,B. Finney, S. Wilbur, J. Williams, D. Hill, and S. Sundberg, City of Arcata Marsh Pilot Project,
Effluent Quality Results System Design Management, Project No: C-06-2270, State of California Water Resources
Control Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
7
Gearheart, R.A., S. Wilbur, H. Holbrook, and M. Ives, City of Arcata Marsh Pilot Project, Wetland Bacteria
Speciation and Harvesting Effect on Water Quality, Project No: 3-154-500-0, State of California Water Resources
Control Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 70]
City of Arcata Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2012-0031
NPDES Permit No. CA0022713
Order No. 79-20 because the waste would achieve secondary treatment standards,
create no adverse impacts to present beneficial uses and the discharge would create new
8
beneficial uses and wildlife habitat.
As constructed, the AMWS consists of three freshwater wetlands: Allen, Gearheart, and
Hauser Marshes. These created marshes receive equivalent to secondary treated
wastewater, provide enhanced treatment for discharges to Humboldt Bay, and create
new beneficial uses, which would not exist in the absence of the discharge. The AMWS
marshes (wetlands) provide enhanced water quality treatment while hosting a variety of
cold water aquatic organisms and vegetation creating an extraordinary habitat for
shorebirds, waterfowl, raptors and migratory birds. As a result, the AMWS is an integral
part of the WWTF and a valued part of the Arcata community providing numerous non-
B. cDoenstcarcitp rteiocrne aotfi oWna asntedw edautecra taionnda Bl oiopspoolritdusn Titrieesa.t ment or Controls
1. Existing Treatment Configuration.
Primary wastewater treatment is accomplished
with mechanical bar screens, a grit removal chamber, and two primary clarifiers.
Primary solids are sent to two anaerobic digesters, sludge drying beds, and a sludge
composting operation. Influent flows above 5.0 mgd are diverted around primary
treatment directly to the oxidation ponds.
Secondary treatment is accomplished using two oxidation ponds 22.4 and 17.3 acres in
size respectively. A third oxidation pond (3.6 acres) has recently been converted into
two treatment marshes to complement the existing four 2-acre treatment marshes,
totaling six treatment marshes. Detention time in the WWTF, prior to enhanced
treatment in the AMWS, is approximately 39 days during average dry weather design
flow periods. Currently, effluent is disinfected with chlorine and dechlorinated with
sulfur dioxide prior to discharge. Under the existing WWTF configuration, treated
effluent from the WWTF is continuously commingled with effluent from the AMWS,
disinfected and split, flowing by gravity either to Humboldt Bay or again through the
AMWS. The result is disinfected secondary effluent, but not all effluent receives the
benefit of enhanced treatment through the AMWS before discharge to Humboldt Bay
and some effluent may actually be chlorinated multiple times increasing the
2. Uopppgorratduendit yT troe afotmrme ndits Cinofnecfitgiounr abtyiporno.ducts above water quality objectives.
Under the upgraded WWTF configuration,
waste will continue to enter the system through the headworks receiving primary and
8
Regional Water Board, Resolution 83-9, July 28, 1983
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 71]
City of Arcata Wastewater Treatment Facility
Order No. R1-2012-0031
NPDES Permit No. CA0022713
biosolids treatment comprised of mechanical bar screens, grit removal, two clarifiers,
two anaerobic digesters, drying beds, and composting. Initial biological treatment also
still be accomplished in the two oxidation ponds and 6 treatment marshes (4 treatment
marshes are currently online; marshes 5 and 6 were constructed in 2011 and will be
fully operational in 2013). The oxidation pond effluent flows to the six treatment
marshes, which operate in parallel.
Equivalent to secondary treated effluent will discharge at Outfall No. 002 to the
AMWS for enhanced water quality treatment consistent with Resolution Nos. 79-20
and 83-9. Water flows through Allen, Gearheart and Hauser marshes in succession.
At the design average dry weather flow, detention time in the AMWS will be
approximately 60 days and results in full standard secondary treated effluent. The
Permittee plans to construct a new ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system at the end of
Hauser marsh. Key components of enhanced treatment provided by the AMWS are
settling and clarification. Placement of the new UV disinfection system after AMWS
treatment is fundamental to the efficiency and dependability of the new system,
because UV disinfection relies upon transmission of the ultraviolet light throughout
the water column. Although not contemplated at the time of adoption, the Regional
Water Board finds the application of UV disinfection consistent with Resolution Nos.
79-20 and 83-9. Final engineering designs for the City's proposed UV disinfection
system will be forwarded to the Regional Water Board upon completion. Within the
effective period of this Order, treated effluent will be discharged immediately after
UV disinfection through Outfall No. 003 into Humboldt Bay via the brackish marsh,
which was constructed in 2008. Final designs for an attenuated/diffused discharge
will also be completed and submitted to the Regional Water Board prior to flow
being diverted to Outfall No. 003.
The upgraded WWTF configuration will result in overall improvements to effluent
quality discharged to Humboldt Bay because effluent will no longer be commingled;
therefore all effluent of at least up to 5.9 MGD will receive enhanced treatment
through the AMWS. In addition, chlorination will no longer be the primary form of
disinfection so formation of disinfection byproducts will be greatly diminished.
Treated effluent from Outfall No. 003 will enter Humboldt Bay in a diffuse manor due
to the tidal mixing within the brackish marsh and subsequent flow though tidal
marshes. The overall end result of the upgraded WWTF will be higher quality water
C. Discehnaterrgien gP Hoiunmtsb aonlddt BRaeyc.e iving Waters
In conformance with State Board Order No. 79-20, and Regional Water Board, Resolution
83-9, the facility discharges to Humboldt Bay, a water of the United States, in conjunction
with enhanced treatment and the creation of beneficial uses associated with the AMWS,
a fresh water marsh system. Humboldt B

===PLANNED CHANGES===

