[Page 94]
1. Collection System
The collection system was constructed in 1976 and consists of approximately 6.5
miles of 6, 8, and 12 inch asbestos cement pipelines and two lift stations. Lift station
1 is sized for 850,000 gallons per day and serves the majority of the system’s flows.
Lift station 2 conveys flows from two residences to the gravity collection system.
2. Existing Wastewater Treatment Facility
Current treatment operations at the Facility include the headworks (solids removal and
flow meter), two aerated ponds, a settling pond, a chlorine disinfection basin, and two
effluent storage ponds. The existing treatment facility has design treatment capacities
of 0.14 mgd (average dry-weather flow) and 0.85 mgd (maximum daily wet-weather
flow). Wastewater flows by gravity through all three treatment ponds.
The headworks was constructed in 1976 and was designed and built with a grit
chamber, a solids comminutor and a flow measurement flow. The grit chamber
requires manual removal of solids. The comminutor has since been removed, and
therefore larger solids are removed manually. Solids are drained into a 5 gallon bucket
and deposited in a trash container.
The aerated ponds provide primary and secondary treatment of wastewater. The
ponds, which are clay lined with concrete banks, work in series or in parallel, and
provide a capacity of 1.25 million gallons each. The ponds are typically operated in
series. Each pond is mixed and aerated by two 10 horsepower surface splasher type
aerators.
The settling pond is clay lined and provides flow equalization and storage, and settling
of suspended solids. The settling pond has two outlet structures. A surface floater
provides effluent transfer and a fixed gravity overflow directs effluent to a transfer wet
well. Effluent from the settling pond can be redirected back to headworks, during
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 95]
ORDER NO. R1-2011-0016
Graton Community Services District Wastewater Treatment Plant
NPDES NO. CA0023639
colder weather months, and the aerators in the aeration ponds may be idled to provide
complete nitrification. Algal blooms in the settling pond contribute suspended solids
and BOD ; however, the use of Aqua Marine Shadow, a nontoxic proprietary food
5
grade colorant (dye), has eliminated seasonal algal blooms and resultant TSS. Flow
from the settling pond is pumped through the Control Building where it is chlorinated
and flows to the storage ponds through the 10,800 gallon chlorine contact chamber.
Dechlorination occurs passively in the storage ponds by oxidation.
3. Planned Wastewater Treatment Facility Upgrades
The Discharger is planning to upgrade the Facility to treat to California Code of
Regulations title 22, disinfected tertiary standards. The previous permit required the
upgrades to be completed by October 6, 2007, to comply with the Basin Plan
requirement that municipal waste discharges to the Russian River and its tributaries be
of advanced treated wastewater. The Discharger did not complete the capital
improvements by this date, due to budget constraints.
The Discharger has completed construction of a flood wall project, which includes a
concrete flood wall, earthen flood berm and a storm water detention system, to protect
the Facility from winter flood events.
A Cease and Desist Order (CDO, Regional Water Board Order No. R1-2008-0109)
was adopted by the Regional Water Board on December 11, 2008, and includes a time
schedule for compliance with the Basin Plan Advanced Treatment Requirements. The
CDO requires advanced wastewater treatment no later than October 6, 2012. A
modified CDO is proposed for adoption concurrently with this Order to extend the
compliance date for completion of the Discharger’s tertiary upgrade project by 20
months.
The planned tertiary upgrade project has been designed to treat up to an average daily
flow of 0.397 mgd and peak daily flow of 0.58 mgd in order to handle anticipated wet-
weather flows. The permitted wet-weather Facility flow of 0.85 mgd has been retained
from Order No. R1-2004-0038 to recognize that the treatment process relies on
equalization in the treatment ponds to achieve a peak design flow of 0.85 mgd. The
Discharger plans to replace the existing headworks equipment with automated
headworks equipment, install a suspended air flotation (SAF) cell for solids removal, a
Fuzzy Filter compressible media deep bed filtration system for tertiary filtration, and
replace chlorine disinfection with a cogeneration/pasteurization disinfection system.
The Discharger also plans to improve its recycled water delivery system with a new
pump station and to implement biosolids composting. California Department of Health
Services has approved both the Fuzzy Filter and the cogeneration/pasteurization
processes as technologies that meet California Water Recycling Criteria for tertiary
disinfected wastewater.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 96]
ORDER NO. R1-2011-0016
Graton Community Services District Wastewater Treatment Plant
NPDES NO. CA0023639
The Discharger intends for the cogeneration system to provide the primary power
source for operation of the entire plant in lieu of purchased PG&E power. PG&E will be
a backup source, and excess power will be sold to PG&E. Exhaust from the turbine(s)
will be used to heat the tertiary filtered effluent to 180°F for 10 seconds in accordance
with CDPH criteria for Title 22 tertiary disinfection. Additional energy will be captured
following pasteurization to heat the buildings in lieu of propane or electric heaters.
GCSD is currently proceeding with system specifications and engineering drawings
and investigating the feasibility and efficacy of utilizing additional waste heat to
enhance the biosolids composting process.
State Revolving funds and Proposition 50 funds from the North Coast Integrated
Regional Water Management Plan will partially fund construction of the SAF and fuzzy
filter processes. According to the Discharger, additional funds are needed to complete
ancillary components for the SAF and fuzzy filter, including chemical, electrical, and
utility storage buildings that are essential for protecting temperature-sensitive polymer,
motor controls and instrumentation; electrical controls; solids dewatering components;
pasteurization-cogeneration equipment; a records storage and control room; utility tie-
ins; and post construction site work.
4. Biosolids Management
Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in the aeration and
settling ponds, where they undergo anaerobic digestion and compaction. Over time,
the volume of settled solids increases, reducing the retention time of flow through the
pond. Sludge that collects in the aeration and settling ponds is periodically removed,
and was removed most recently in 2007.
The Discharger plans to construct a biosolids composting facility as part of its upgrade
project. Biosolids composting will be accomplished in engineered containers designed
specifically for composting. The manufacturers of these containers have indicated that
these systems will produce either Class A or Class B biosolids. The Discharger plans
to utilize Class A biosolids in its plant nursery operation, which primarily grows
redwood trees. The Discharger is currently designing the composting system,
including the integration of waste heat from the cogeneration process, if warranted.
The biosolids operation will be permitted separately from this Order.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The treatment, reclamation, and disposal facilities as well as the collection system
are located in the Atascadero/Green Valley Creek drainage area in the South ½ of
Section 17, T17N, R9W, MDB&M. A map of the area is shown in Attachment B to
this Order.
Attachme

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The ROWD identified plans to upgrade the facility to tertiary treatment, update the
disinfection system from chlorination to pasteurization, and to implement biosolids
composting, all of which are described in sections II.A.2.6 and II.A.2.7 of the Fact Sheet.
This Order includes interim effluent limitations for BOD and TSS pending completion of
5
the Discharger’s tertiary upgrade project. The compliance schedule for completion of the
upgrade project is contained in Cease and Desist Order No. R1-2012-0016.
The Discharger also plans to implement measures to reduce ammoni