[Page 26]
2. All spills, unauthorized discharges, and SSOs less than 1,000 gallons that do not
reach a drainage channel or a surface water:
a. As soon as possible, but not later than twenty-four (24) hours after
becoming aware of the discharge, the Discharger shall notify the Regional
Water Board and provide the applicable information in requirement 1.a of this
section.
b. In the cover letter of the SMR, the Discharger shall include a written
description of the spill event.
Attachment C – Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) C-10
[Page 27]
Lake Shastina Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1-2012-0029
WDID No. 1A790100SIS
D.
D.
ATTACHMENT D – FACT SHEET
I. FACILITY INFORMATION
A. Background
Recent upgrades to the WWTF were completed in 2011 to regain disposal
capacity that had been lost through sludge accumulation in the ponds. The
upgrades include the addition of a new percolation and evaporation pond (Pond
No. 4), which is lined with a 60-millimeter thick High Density Polyethylene
(HDPE) liner, the construction of an unlined primary pond (Pond No. 5), which
is not a permitted discharge location under this permit, and the addition of
electrical supply to the ponds to power the APEX evaporator and any future
electricity needs. Wastewater treatment is achieved through settling, aerobic
and anaerobic bacterial actions, and other biogeochemical processes. The
WWTF is designed to treat and dispose of an AADF up to 0.132 mgd.
The wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilities consist of a
combined gravity and low pressure sewer that connects to grinder pumps in the
headworks lift station whereupon it is pumped through an inline flow meter to
the solids containment structure. The wastewater then overflows successively
via weirs to Pond Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4. Pond Nos. 1, 2, and 3 were originally
designed with approximate depths of eight feet, but in November 2007, the
berms and weirs were rehabilitated and built-up to allow for approximate pond
depths of nine feet, although portions of each pond are shallower due to sludge
buildup. Sludge deposition in Pond Nos. 1, 2, and 3 that occurred prior to
construction of the solids containment structure and carryover from the solids
containment structure have caused the accumulation of up to three feet of
sludge in Pond No. 1, up to fourteen inches of sludge in Pond No. 2, and up to
six inches of sludge in Pond No. 3. Pond No. 4 is designed for a maximum
water depth of six feet.
The four ponds have approximately 17.3 million gallons (53.1 acre-feet) of
storage and the design estimates that the addition of Pond No. 4 will provide
enough capacity to evaporate 0.170 mgd and percolate approximately 0.0125
mgd of wastewater. Therefore, the design estimates that the four ponds will
have enough disposal capacity to accommodate flows up to 0.1825 mgd.
Nonetheless, this permit does not authorize discharge in excess of the
previously permitted rate of 0.132 mgd because the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) document for the development of the new ponds included
this flow limitation. Any future increases in flow above the permitted rate of
0.132 mgd will require a subsequent CEQA analysis to analyze potential
environmental impacts of increased flows.
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-1
[Page 28]
Lake Shastina Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1-2012-0029
WDID No. 1A790100SIS
Currently, there are three groundwater monitoring wells on site. Th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

