[Page 84]
1. Collection System
Portions of the Discharger’s collection system, which were constructed in the early
1950’s, consist of 3.3 miles of vitrified clay and asbestos-cement collection system
pipelines to the Facility. In 1976 and 1977, 5,026 feet of sewer mains were sliplined
with polyethylene liner to improve the system integrity. Wastewater flows by gravity
from the Forestville service area to the Facility.
Mirabel Heights is served by a gravity flow collection system, which feeds into a
force main connected to the Facility. The gravity portion of the collection system
consists of 2.7 miles of plastic sewer pipe and the force main consists of 1.5 miles of
ductile iron pipe. Two lift stations carry wastewater from the Mirabel Heights gravity
flow collection system to the Facility.
2. Wastewater Treatment
The Facility was upgraded and expanded just prior to adoption of Order No.
R1-2004-0027 to provide advanced wastewater treatment4 employing microfiltration
technology to bring the Facility into compliance with the Basin Plan and to maintain
compliance with the CDPH water recycling requirements contained in Chapter 3,
Division 4, Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, sections 60301 through
60355. Advanced wastewater treatment allows the Discharger to pursue increased
reclamation opportunities, including landscape irrigation of local schools and parks in
addition to local vineyards and farmlands.
The current treatment system consists of a headworks, an aeration pond, a settling
pond, microfiltration, chlorine disinfection, and dechlorination. The Facility is
designed to provide tertiary treatment for up to an average daily dry weather flow of
0.130 mgd, a peak weekly wet weather flow of 0.58 mgd and a peak daily wet-
weather flow of 0.78 .
The headworks includes a rotary hydroscreen system, a screenings washer, and a
metering flume. Influent flows from a 12-inch pipeline to the rotary hydroscreen
system. After solids removal, influent flows through a 3-inch Parshall flume for flow
measurement. The cleaned and dewatered solids are disposed of at a landfill.
4 The terms “advanced treated effluent” and “disinfected tertiary effluent” are used interchangeably in this
permit. Both terms refer to the advanced wastewater treatment process described in section II.A.2 of this
Fact Sheet. The term “advanced wastewater treatment” is used in the Water Quality Control Plan for the
North Coast Region (Basin Plan). The term “disinfected tertiary effluent” is used in the Department of Public
Health’s (DPH) Recycled Water Criteria contained in Chapter 3, Division 4, Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations, sections 60301 through 60355 (hereinafter Title 22).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 85]
ORDER NO. R1-2012-0012
Forestville Water District
NPDES NO. CA0023043
Wastewater from the headworks flows by gravity to the east end of the aeration
pond (also known as the South Pond). The pond has a volumetric capacity of 2.93
million gallons and is divided into three baffled cells to reduce short-circuiting. The
first cell has two 7.5-horsepower aerators, the second cell has one 5-horsepower
aerator, and the third cell has one 3-horsepower aerator. Based on the average dry
weather treatment capacity, the theoretical detention time in the pond is 24.8 days.
Wastewater flows from cell to cell and exits from the westernmost cell into the
settling pond.
The settling pond (also known as the North Pond) receives aerated wastewater by
gravity into the south side, opposite the settling pond outlet. Flow of wastewater
through the settling pond allows microorganisms to settle out prior to being pumped
to the microfiltration system. The settling pond has a total volume of 0.75 million
gallons.
Effluent from the settling pond is pumped by three 5-horsepower prefilter pumps to
the filtration system. To maintain cleanliness in the filters, the secondary effluent is
pre-chlorinated using sodium hypochlorite prior to filtration. Tertiary treatment is
achieved in the microfiltration system. The microfiltration system consists of two
treatment trains each with a holding tank, strainer, and three banks of 12 microza
microfiltration modules (water flows from the outside-in). The microfiltration building
has been designed to accommodate a third treatment train if necessary. The
microfiltration system is operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s operations
manual and CDPH requirements. Where the manufacturer’s recommendations are
less stringent than CDPH requirements, CDPH requirements take precedence.
From the microfiltration system, filtered wastewater flows to the chlorine contact tank
by gravity through an 8-inch pipeline. Gaseous chlorine is injected into the 8-inch
influent line prior to entering the chlorine contact tank using two chlorinators each.
Two cylinders are kept on-line at all times. Automatic switchover is available
between the systems. Chlorinated effluent then flows into one of two baffled
concrete chambers. A chlorine contact tank tracer study conducted in August 2005
demonstrated that the contact time is 105 minutes at the peak weekly treatment
plant design flow of 0.58 mgd, and that a final chlorine residual of 4.3 mg/L is
needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L at peak weekly design flow. The
study also demonstrated that when the filter flow exceeds 0.58 mgd, up to the peak
wet weather daily design flow of 0.78 mgd, a final chlorine residual of 5.3 mg/L is
needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L. After flowing through the
chlorine contact tank, before discharge to surface water, the chlorinated effluent is
dechlorinated using sulfur dioxide. During the irrigation season, plant effluent is
lightly dechlorinated.
In 2010 the Discharger reconfigured the chlorination system to improve chlorination
efficiency and compliance with BOD effluent limitations. Prior to the reconfiguration,
the chlorination system utilized tertiary recycled water from the effluent storage pond
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 86]
ORDER NO. R1-2012-0012
Forestville Water District
NPDES NO. CA0023043
as solution water to carry chlorine to the point of disinfection upstream of the
chlorine contact tanks. The Discharger reconfigured the piping and installed a small
pump to use effluent directly from the chlorine contact tank as the solution water.
This modification is expected to reduce chlorine usage and improve compliance with
coliform effluent limitations because recycled water stored in the effluent storage
pond accumulates organic matter (algae, bird feces) that can have a higher chlorine
and oxygen demand.
3. Effluent Storage
After treatment, the advanced treated effluent is discharged to an on-site effluent
storage pond prior to discharge to the land disposal system or the surface water
discharge system. The maximum capacity of the existing on-site storage pond is 3.2
million gallons. Additional on-site storage capacity may also be available within the
treatment ponds during low flow periods. The storage ponds allow the amount of
discharge to be controlled to protect beneficial uses of the receiving water and
provide a source of recycled water during the discharge prohibition period.
4. Recycled Water
During the dry weather season (May 15 to September 30), and other periods as
allowed under this Order, disinfected tertiary effluent from effluent storage is
reclaimed for irrigation. The existing irrigat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The ROWD identified plans to modify the chlorine contact chamber feed water source.
The chlorine contact chamber project was completed in 2010, prior to completion of this
Order and is described in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet. No other planned changes
have been identified at this time.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section. This section provides supplemental information,