[Page 87]
The current Facility provides advanced wastewater treatment (AWT) and has design
capacities of 2.25 MGD as an average dry weather flow (ADWF), 3.75 MGD as a peak
monthly wet weather flow, and 7.2 MGD as a peak weekly wet weather flow. The
wastewater treatment facilities include biological secondary treatment utilizing
extended air activated sludge aeration basins and secondary clarifiers; advanced
wastewater treatment that includes chemical addition facilities, flocculation tanks, AWT
clarifiers, and sand filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; and storage prior to
reclamation, discharge to the Geysers recharge pipeline, and/or discharge to Mark West
Creek. A portion of the treated and UV disinfected effluent is chlorinated and
transferred to Windsor High School for toilet flushing and landscape irrigation.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 88]
ORDER NO. R1-2013-0042
Town of Windsor
NPDES NO. CA0023345
3. Effluent Storage
Advanced treated, UV disinfected effluent is discharged to effluent storage ponds prior
to distribution to the water reclamation system or to Mark West Creek. The Permittee
owns and operates six tertiary effluent storage ponds that provide 143.8 million gallons
of storage capacity and two additional ponds that provide an added 20.2 million gallons
of high flow storage volume when influent flows exceed the treatment capacity of the
treatment plant. This combined storage volume of 164 million gallon is designed to
handle an ADWF of up to 1.9 MGD.
During the term of this permit, the Permittee plans to implement a Joint Use Program
with the Airport-Larkfield-Wikiup Sanitation Zone (ALWSZ) Wastewater T

[Page 89]
5. Sthlue dGgeey saenrds RBeiochsoarligdes P Hipaenlidnlein isg also located at the treatment plant.
Sludge is generated at the Facility in the AWT process. The Permittee’s sludge facilities
include two sludge ponds, an auxiliary sludge pond, and a sludge decant tank. The two
sludge ponds provide 11.9 million gallons of sludge stabilization and storage capacity.
A third pond, that currently provides 6.4 million gallons of effluent storage, will be
converted to a sludge stabilization pond in the future. Within the ponds, sludge
concentrates to a higher solids content and volatile suspended solids are degraded.
Surface aerators are used for odor control. The sludge decant tank provides temporary
holding and equalization capacity during sludge processing. Sludge can be pumped
from outlets in the floor of the tank to dewatering units or to trucks. The tank is
equipped with a floating decanter for removing supernatant that may accumulate on
the surface. Sludge is typically pumped out of these ponds on an annual basis and
hauled by an outside contractor to a site for beneficial land application of biosolids. The
land application site is outside of this Regional Water Board’s jurisdiction. The outside
contractor manages the biosolids land application permit requirements in Regions 2
and 5 on behalf of the Permittee.
Solids and screenings from the headworks are currently disposed of at a municipal solid
B. Discwhaasrteg ela Pnodifniltl.s and Receiving Waters
The Facility and receiving water discharge points are located in the Russian River
Hydrologic Unit – Middle Russian River Hydrologic Area – Mark West Hydrologic Subarea
(114.23).
Advanced tr°eated effluent that is no°t reclaimed to the recycled water system is discharged
from the effluent storage pond system to lower Mark West Creek (Discharge Serial No. 002,
Latitude 38 29’ 39”, Longitude 122 51’ 05”) during the allowed discharge period from
October 1 to May 14. Lower Mark West Creek is part of the greater Laguna de Santa Rosa
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 90]
ORDER NO. R1-2013-0042
Town of Windsor
NPDES NO. CA0023345
2
watershed and is tributary to the Russian River. The rate of discha

===PLANNED CHANGES===

