[Page 90]
2. Wcoamsmteuwnaittieers Ttor tehaet mSuebnrte gional System.
The Subregional System currently has design treatment capacities of 21.3 MGD
(average daily dry weather flow), 64 MGD (peak weekly wet weather flow), and 47.3
MGD (peak monthly wet weather flow). The current treatment system consists of grit
removal in aerated grit chambers, sludge and scum removal in primary sedimentation
tanks, biological secondary treatment (activated sludge) with alum coagulation,
flocculation, and clarification followed by tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light
disinfection that meet title 22 guidelines or as otherwise specified in this Order.
During the discharge season (October 1 – May 14), wastewater is permitted to be
discharged from Discharge Points 006A, 006B, 012A(1), 012A(2), 012B, and 015 to
the Laguna de Santa Rosa, an unnamed ditch tributary to the Laguna de Santa Rosa,
and Santa Rosa Creek, waters of the United States and tributary to the Russian River
within the Russian River Hydrologic Unit (114.00). The Subregional System has a
distribution trunk line which allows effluent to either be directly discharged, mixed
with Delta Pond storage water, or stored in the Delta Pond. Discharge Point 012A
from the previous Order has been subdivided to Discharge Points 012A(1) and
012A(2) to account for this change. Source water for Discharge Point 012A(1) comes
directly from Discharge Point 015 while the source water for Discharge Point 012A(2)
is Delta Pond storage water. Therefore, wastewater characteristics for Discharge
Points 012A(1) and 012A(2) will differ and have resulted in separate analysis with
respect to determining reasonable potential as described in this Fact Sheet. A
multiport diffuser was installed at Discharge Point 012B during the term of the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 91]
ORDER NO. R1-2013-0001
City of Santa Rosa
WDID No. 1B83099OSON
NPDES No. CA0022764
Discharge Management Plan
previous permit. The diffuser extends 37 feet from the 48 inch outfall in Santa Rosa
Creek. The Permittee’s states that discharges will
preferentially occur at Discharge Point 012B to avoid discharges to the Laguna de
3. SEaffnltuae Rnot sSat.o rage
Advanced treated effluent is discharged to an effluent storage pond system prior to
discharge to the water reclamation system or the surface water discharge system.
The pond system consists of Brown Pond; Meadow Lane Ponds A, B, C, and D; and
Delta Pond, all of which are owned, operated, and maintained by the Permittee. The
combined maximum capacity of the existing storage ponds is 1,650 million gallons.
The storage ponds allow the Permittee to control the timing, location, and volume of
discharge to protect beneficial uses of the receiving water and provide a source of
4. rReeccyyccleledd w Wataetre dru ring the discharge prohibition period.
During the discharge prohibition season from May 15 through September 30,
advanced treated wastewater is reclaimed. The Permittee distributes a portion of
advanced treated wa

[Page 92]
5. Sludge and Biosolids Handling
treated at the Subregional System’s Laguna Treatment Plant.
Sludge generated during the treatment process is thickened, anaerobically digested,
dewatered using belt filters and polymer addition, and beneficially used as soil
B. Discahmaerngdem Peonint (tbs iaonsodl iRdes)c.e i ving Waters
1.
The Subregional System’s Laguna Treatment Plant is located at the NE ¼ of Section
2. 17, T6N, R8W, MDB&M. A map of the area is shown in Attachment B to this Order.
The Permittee discharges advanced treated wastewater to an on-site effluent storage
pond system, prior to discharge to the reclamation system or to surface water. The
description of the ponds and the surface water discharges is provided below.
Meadow Lane Pond D. The discharge at Discharge Point 006A is located at the
southeast corner of Pond D and is through a pipe into a square concrete flume that
empties directly into the ordinary high water mark of the Laguna de Santa Rosa. The
upstream receiving water monitoring location is located in the Laguna de Santa Rosa,
50-100 feet upstream of Discharge Point 006A.
Meadow Lane Pond D. The discharge at Discharge Point 006B is through a 36-inch
pipe located at the northwest corner of the D-Pond. Treated effluent is discharged
from the storage pond into a rip-rap and concrete lined trapezoidal flume/ditch that
empties into the ordinary high water mark of the Laguna de Santa Rosa. Upstream
conditions are currently measured in the Laguna de Santa Rosa, at Monitoring
Location RSW-006BU-L, which is located approximately 1,500 feet upstream of the
discharge location, and in Colgan Creek upstream of the confluence with the Laguna
de Santa Rosa at Monitoring Location RSW-006BU-C.
Delta Pond. Discharge Point 012A(1) is wastewater that is discharged directly to
Santa Rosa Creek via the distribution trunk line.
Delta Pond. Discharge Point 012A(2) is a discharge from the blending valve on the
24-inch pipeline located mid-way along the north side of Delta Pond to the ordinary
high water mark of Santa Rosa Creek. The blending valves were constructed along
with the Delta pond in 1983. During this time period, the West College wastewater
treatment plant was operational during wet weather events. The effluent from the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 93]
ORDER NO. R1-2013-0001
City of Santa Rosa
WDID No. 1B83099OSON
NPDES No. CA0022764
West College plant was of lower quality than that of the Laguna Treatment Plant and
plans were to blend the lower quality West College effluent with either stored water
in the Delta pond or treated wastewater pumped directly from the Laguna plant. The
West College plant has not been utilized since the 1988 upgrades to the Laguna
Treatment Plant. During the past 25 years the 12A discharge has only been used as an
alternate Delta pond discharge point and the last time it was used was over 10 years
ago. It is currently possible to pump water directly from the Laguna Treatment Plant
(LTP) plant to Discharge Point 12A(1), blend water from LTP with Delta Pond water
to discharge (Discharge Point 12A(2), or discharge solely Delta Pond water from
Discharge Point 12A(2).
Delta Pond. Discharge at Discharge Point 012B is via a 48-inch discharge pipe fitted
with a 37 foot, multiport diffuser directly to the confluence of the Laguna de Santa
Rosa and Santa Rosa Creek. Upstream receiving water is monitored at two locations,
each approximately 75 feet upstream of the effluent discharge point. Discharge from
Delta Pond will preferentially occur via Discharge Point 012B.
Laguna Treatment Plant. Discharge from Discharge Point 015 is a discharge pipe that
discharges directly into a square concrete flume that drains to a constructed
trapezoidal ditch that conveys treated wastewater flow from the WWTF or to the
Meadow Lane Pond where it is either reclaimed or transferred to the Delta Pond.
Flow in the ditch is transported approximately 130 feet where it discharges into the
Laguna de Santa Rosa. The upstream receiving water monitoring location is located in
the Laguna de Santa Rosa approximately 100 feet upstream of Llano Bridge Road.
Discharge Points 003 and 014 were authorized by the previous permit, but are not
retained in this Order, because the Subregional System no longer use

===PLANNED CHANGES===

