[Page 65]
1. Collection System
The Permittee’s waste water collection system was constructed in 1947 and now
consists of two pump stations and 4.5 miles of mainly 8-inch and some 6-inch vitrified
clay gravity sewer pipes at an average of 6 feet below grade. Most manholes are brick
with grout lining. In 2002, the Permittee inspected approximately 2,000 feet of the
2. cWoallsetcetiwona tseyrs tTerme awtmithe nTtV equipment.
The Facility is designed to provide secondary treatment for up to an average daily dry
weather flow of 0.16 mgd. The current treatment system consists of a 10-inch
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 66]
ORDER NO. R1-2013-0029
City of Tulelake
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS
NPDES NO. CA0023272
grinder-type comminutor in the headworks wet well with a bypass bar screen
followed by two aerated waste water stabilization ponds. Pond No. 2 is divided
equally into two reactor cells with a redwood plank baffle. The two ponds have a
design average depth of 10-feet and a capacity of 4.08 million gallons. According to
the design flows of 0.16 mgd, the total detention time in the ponds is 25.5 days. The
oxidized wastewater then flows through two parallel sand filters and subsequently
through a chlorine contact chamber prior to sulfur dioxide dechlorination and
discharge to the TID drain No. 44-B-1 at Discharge Point 001.
The comminutor was refurbished in 2006, although the blades need replacement
again and the electronic control system is not functional and limited to on/off
operation. The aerated stabilization ponds have not been dredged since the Facility
was constructed resulting in increased oxygen demand and nutrient supply within the
stabilization ponds, which inhibits effective waste water nitrification. The sand filters
have been only partially functional and intermittently used since the early 1980’s.
Faciliy operators assert that the filters are clogged with solids carryover from the
stabilization ponds and are in need of overhaul. Facility inspections have revealed
that some aerators need maintenance, the effluent flow meter needs calibration and
the automated chlorination and dechlorination system is nonoperational. Leakage
has been observed by Facility operators from the east side of Pond No. 2 when the
water depth exceeds approximately 11.5 feet. The stabilization ponds were originally
designed with a matrix of airlines and diffusers, which was replaced by a mat aerator
system that was again replaced by the current network of static tube diffusers. The
number of installed diffusers is not known, but the Permittee’s Wastewater Facilities
Plan (2008) indicates that “over the years the operational number has been
decreasing such that currently there are eight working in Reactor No. 1 and three
3. eEaffclhu einn Rt eSatoctroargse N o. 2 and 3.”
Equivalent-to-secondary treated effluent is discharged directly to TID Drain No. 44-B-
4. 1B iaots Doilsidchsa rge Point 001 with no effluent storage capability.
Biosolids generated during the treatment process settle out in the stabilization ponds
and need to be removed, dewatered and disposed of regularly. The ponds have not
B. Discbheeanrg der ePdoginedts o arn sdam Rpelceedi vsiinncge W thaet eFrasc ility was constructed.
1.
The Facility’s Treatment Plant is located at the NE ¼ of Section 2, T47N, R4E, MDB&M.
A map of the area is shown in Attachment B to this Order.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 67]
ORDER NO. R1-2013-0029
City of Tulelake
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS
NPDES NO2.. C A0023272
The Permittee discharges equivalent-to-secondary treated wastewater directly from
the end of the chlorine contact chamber to TIDDrain No. 44-B-1 at Discharge Point
001. The upstream receiving water monitoring location RSW-001U is located in TID
C. SumDmraainry N oof. E44x-isBt-i1n agp Rperqouxiimreamteelyn t1s0 a0n fede St eulpf-sMtroenamito orfi nthge R Feapciolirtty (. SMR) Data
1.
Surface water discharges from the Facility during the permit term of Order No. R1-
2004-0075 occurred solely from Discharge Po

[Page 69]
3. Compliapnecrec Penrot jreecmt oval of BOD and TSS, pH, and chlorine residual.
Since the Permittee is classified as a small disadvantaged community, it is eligible to
implement compliance projects to offset assessed penalties in accordance with the
State Water Resources Control Board Enforcement Policy. As part of the facilities
planning process required by the CDO described in section II.D.2, above, two possible
capital improvement projects (CIPs) were identified by the Permittee, including a
wetland-type land disposal system and a spray irrigation reclamation system. The
Permittee identified in its Facilities Plan that the wetland-type land disposal system
was the preferred alternative; however, the Permittee is still developing an
antidegradation analysis that may alter the preferred alternative. Nonetheless, the
ACL Order described in section II.D.2, above, conditionally offset $488,000 if the
Permittee meets the task schedule requirements contained in the ACL Order and if the
Executive Officer determines that the Permittee has completed the compliance project
4. sPaltainsfnaecdto Crihlya.n ges
The Permittee has plans to rehabilitate and upgrade the existing Facility by July, 2015.
Rehabilitation efforts will include collection system improvements, replacing the
headworks, installing and calibrating a new effluent flow meter, dredging the aeration
basins, fixing any nonfunctional aerators, and fixing the automated disinfection
system. Facility upgrades will include enhanced treatment units and the creation of a
land disposal system at a new location south of the Facility. The details of these
facility upgrades are yet to be determined, pending completion of the antidegradation
analysis. The Permittee has a $3,794,350 conditional grant funding agreement with
the State Revolving Fund for planning, design and construction

===PLANNED CHANGES===

