[Page 47]
II. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
A. Facility Description
The Orange County Water District (hereinafter Discharger, or OCWD) owns and
operates the Groundwater Replenishment System (GWRS). The GWRS is a joint
project by OCWD and Orange County Sanitation District (OCSD). The GWRS is a
water supply project that supplements existing water supplies by providing a new,
reliable, high-quality source of water to recharge the Orange County Groundwater Basin
and protect the Basin from further degradation due to seawater intrusion. In addition,
OCSD relies upon the GWRS to provide peak wet weather flow relief for OCSD’s ocean
outfall. The GWR System is located in central Orange County and extends from
Fountain Valley and Huntington Beach near the coast to Santa Ana, Orange, and
Anaheim, generally near the Santa Ana River. The GWRS consists of three major
components, the Advanced Water Purification Facility (hereinafter AWPF or Facility),
the Talbert Gap Seawater Intrusion Barrier (Talbert Barrier), and the
Kraemer/Miller/Miraloma Spreading Basins.
Secondary treated effluent that previously was discharged to the ocean is now diverted
from OCSD Plant No. 1 to the AWPF, where it is advanced treated to meet the
California Code of Regulations Title 22 requirements for groundwater recharge during
normal operating conditions and/or discharged to the Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River
under emergency conditions. As discussed above, the GWR System consists of three
major components. However, the focus of this Order is on the AWPF’s discharges to
the Santa Ana River. The use of the recycled water for the seawater intrusion barrier
and for recharge at the spreading basins is regulated under a separate Order issued by
the Regional Water Board.
The AWPF is located at 18700 Ward Street, Fountain Valley in Orange County. It
includes treatment processes and pumping stations. The AWPF treatment design
capacity is currently 70 million gallons per day (mgd) for highly treated recycled water
production. The production of highly treated recycled water started in January 2008.
The Facility is undergoing expansion for a treatment design capacity of 100 mgd by
early 2015.
The advanced treatment processes are as follows:
a. Fine Screening: Secondary treated wastewater from OCSD’s Reclamation Plant
No. 1 is strained, or passed through rotating band fine-mesh screens, and
chlorinated (as needed) prior to microfiltration. Screenings are dewatered and
returned to OCSD for disposal.
b. Microfiltration: Screened secondary effluent flows via gravity to 26 in-basin
microfiltration (MF) cells containing submerged racks of hollow fiber membranes
with a maximum pore size of 0.2 micron. Sodium hypochlorite is added as-
needed to the MF feed to form a low level (3-5 mg/L) of chloramine to
reduce/prevent fouling of the MF membranes. Currently, the nominal rated
filtrate production capacity of the MF system is 86 mgd, with peak capacity at 100
[Page 48]
Orange County Water District Order No. R8-2014-0069
Groundwater Replenishment System-Advanced Water Purification Facility NPDES No. CA8000408
Attachment F – Fact Sheet Page F-5
mgd. The nominal capacity will be increased to 118 mgd and the peak capacity
will be increased to 157 mgd in early 2015. The waste backwash is returned to
OCSD for treatment.
.
c. Reverse Osmosis. The RO process will be bypassed when AWPF effluent is
discharged to the Santa Ana River.
d. Advanced Oxidation/UV Disinfection: The advanced oxidation/disinfection
process (AOP) consists of two steps: hydrogen peroxide addition and ultraviolet
(UV) light treatment. UV irradiation is used for disinfection and reduction of light-
sensitive contaminants. Hydrogen peroxide exposed to UV irradiation produces
hydroxyl radicals that result in advanced oxidation to destroy UV-resistant
contaminants. For direct discharge to the SAR, only UV treatment will be used.
The nominal reliable capacity of the UV system is 100 mgd.
e. Decarbonation and Lime Stabilization Process: This treatment process will be
bypassed when AWPF effluent is discharged to the Santa Ana River.
f. Dechlorination and pH adjustment: After UV disinfection and prior to discharge
to the Santa Ana River, the effluent stream may still contain some chloramines.
Sodium bisulfate will be added for dechlorination, if needed.
Up to approximately 33 mgd of waste backwash, brine and start-up discharges are
returned to Orange County Sanitation District’s Plant No. 1. Waste backwash, brine
and start-up discharges will not be discharged to the Santa Ana River, even under
emergency conditions or during discharge system testing periods.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C provides a treatment flow schematic for this Facility.
B. Wastewater Description
This Order regulates discharges from the AWPF into Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River
under emergency conditions to provide flow relief when peak wastewater flows at
OCSD approach the capacity of the ocean outfall and, thereby, threaten the integrity of
the outfall and the wastewater treatment facilities, or when the OCSD ocean outfall is
being repaired.
High wastewater flows approaching the maximum capacity of the OCSD outfall may
occur, typically caused by peak wet weather storm events. It is anticipated that storm
events creating peak wastewater flows may occur infrequently and may last
approximately 12 hours each, and may occur about once every three years, based on
flow projections for the year 2020. However, no such events have occurred during the
past six years. During such events, the Santa Ana River will likely convey storm water
to the ocean and provide dilution of the AWPF discharge. The amount of flow in the
river is likely to be highly variable depending on the location, duration and intensity of
the storm and the performance of upstream flood control facilities.
[Page 49]
Orange County Water District Order No. R8-2014-0069
Groundwater Replenishment System-Advanced Water Purification Facility NPDES No. CA8000408
Attachment F – Fact Sheet Page F-6
Under emergency conditions, including peak wastewater flow events at OCSD that
approach the maximum capacity of OCSD’s ocean outfall, secondary treated
wastewater flows from OCSD’s Fountain Valley Reclamation Plant No. 1 will be
diverted to the AWPF for further treatment and discharge to Reach 1 of the Santa Ana
River. During these peak wastewater flow conditions, the AWPF will provide up to 100
mgd of flow relief for OCSD. The AWPF will treat secondary effluent flows of up to 133
mgd from Plant No. 1 using microfiltration (MF) and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection
(bypassing reverse osmosis (RO)), followed by post-treatment chemical addition as
needed for pH adjustment. The microfiltered, disinfected tertiary effluent will be
dechlorinated (as needed) prior to being discharged to Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River
via a separate pipeline that will terminate at the Santa Ana River channel at Garfield
Avenue in Fountain Valley (DP 001). Reach 1 of the Santa Ana River is tributary to the
Pacific Ocean (about 4 miles from discharge point). Both the Santa Ana River and the
Pacific Ocean are waters of the United States.
Since the AWPF bega

===PLANNED CHANGES===

