[Page 140]
Burbank WRP are regulated under R4-2010-0058 (NPDES No. CA0055531).
The Hyperion Treatment Plant has provided full secondary treatment since
December 1998. Preliminary and primary wastewater treatments consist of
screening, grit removal, and primary sedimentation with coagulation and flocculation.
In secondary treatment, the primary effluent is biologically treated in a high purity
oxygen activated sludge process comprised of a cryogenic oxygen plant, nine
secondary reactor modules and 36 secondary clarifiers. Each secondary reactor
module is designed to handle 50 MGD of flow which results in a total treatment
capacity of 450 MGD producing secondary effluent. After clarification, undisinfected
secondary effluent is discharged into Santa Monica Bay through a five mile
submerged outfall pipe. Discharge up to 325 MGD flows by gravity to the outfall, or
is pumped at the Effluent Pumping Plant when flows exceed 325 MGD.
Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment processes include grit, primary
screenings, primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge,
digested sludge screenings and digester cleaning solids. The fine solids (grit,
primary screenings, digested sludge screenings, digester cleaning solids) that
consist of primarily inorganic materials are hauled away to landfills. The remaining
solid fractions (primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge)
are anaerobically digested onsite. The digested solids are screened and dewatered
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
(May 20, 2010; Revised: October 12, 2010 & November 4, 2010)
[Page 141]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER NO. R4-2010-0200
HYPERION TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
using centrifuges. Since January 1, 2003, the Hyperion Treatment Plant has
implemented full thermophilic digestion to generate Class A “EQ” biosolids. The
biosolids (treated sewage sludge) are beneficially reused offsite for land application
and composting projects. The digester gas is cleaned and a major part of the gas is
currently exported to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power’s
Scattergood Steam Generating Plant, located immediately adjacent to the Hyperion
Treatment Plant. The exported digester gas is used as fuel in the generation of
electricity. In return, the generating plant provides steam for digester heating for the
Hyperion Treatment Plant. During interruptions in the export of steam from the
Scattergood Steam Generation Plant, digester gas can be used as fuel for in-plant
boilers that provide steam to heat the anaerobic digesters. Any remaining non-
exported digester gas may be flared, if necessary, and is regulated under a flare
operation permit from the South Coast Air Quality Management District (AQMD).
The Hyperion Treatment Plant has an industrial wastewater Pretreatment Program
which is approved by USEPA and the Regional Water Board. The City continues to
implement the Pretreatment Program throughout the Hyperion Treatment Plant’s
service area. However,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

