[Page 6]
Fact Sheet
the Burbank WRP can be diverted/bypassed to the Hyperion Treatment Plant during periods
of emergency. Discharges from the Burbank WRP are regulated under Order No. 98-052
(NPDES CA0055531).
The Hyperion Treatment Plant has provided full secondary treatment since December 1998.
Preliminary and primary wastewater treatments consist of screening, grit removal, and
primary sedimentation with coagulation and flocculation. In secondary treatment, the
primary effluent is biologically treated in a high purity oxygen activated sludge process
comprised of a cryogenic oxygen plant, 9 secondary reactor modules and 36 secondary
clarifiers. Each secondary reactor module is designed to handle 50 mgd of flow which
results in a total treatment capacity of 450 mgd of primary effluent. After clarification,
undisinfected secondary effluent is discharged into Santa Monica Bay through a five mile
submerged outfall pipe (see below for description). Discharge up to 325 mgd flows by
gravity to the outfall, or is pumped at the Effluent Pumping Plant when flows exceed 325
mgd.
Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment processes include grit, primary
screenings, primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge, digested
sludge screenings and digester cleaning solids. The fine solids (grit, primary screenings,
digested sludge screenings, digester cleaning solids) that consist of primarily inorganic
materials are hauled away to landfills. The remaining solid fractions (primary sludge and
skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge) are anaerobically digested onsite. The
digested solids are screened and dewatered using centrifuges. Starting on January 1, 2003,
the Hyperion Treatment Plant implemented full thermophilic digestion to generate Class A
“EQ” biosolids. The biosolids (treated sewage sludge) are beneficially reused offsite for land
application and composting projects. The digester gas is cleaned and a major part of the
gas is currently exported to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power’s Scattergood
Steam Generating Plant, located immediately adjacent to the Hyperion Treatment Plant. The
exported digester gas is used as fuel in the generation of electricity. In return, the generating
plant provides steam for digester heating for the Hyperion Treatment Plant. During
interruptions in the export of steam from the DWP Scattergood Steam Generation Plant,
digester gas can be used as fuel for in-plant boilers that provide steam to heat the anaerobic
digesters. Any remaining non-exported digester gas may be flared, if necessary, and is
regulated under a flare operation permit from the South Coast Air Quality Management
District (AQMD).
The Hyperion Treatment Plant has developed an industrial wastewater Pretreatment
Program which was approved by USEPA and the Regional Board. The City continues to
implement the Pretreatment Program throughout the Hyperion Treatment Plant's service
area. How

===PLANNED CHANGES===

