[Page 122]
HYPERION TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
The Hyperion Treatment Plant has provided full secondary treatment since December 1998.
A process flow diagram of the Hyperion Treatment Plant treatment process is depicted in
Attachment C1.
1. Wastewater Processing – consists of preliminary, advanced primary, and secondary
treatment.
a. Preliminary Treatment – The headworks removes coarse solids (bar screens) and,
sand and silt (grit removal) from wastewater. The headworks consists of eight bar
screens (with provisions for two additional bar screens) with ¾-inch openings with a
total capacity of over 1000 MGD, a grit capture classifier and pumping equipment,
and screen storage hoppers. The Permittee plans to replace the current ¾-inch
screens with smaller 3/8-inch screens during this permit cycle.
b. Advanced Primary Treatment – Includes primary sedimentation with coagulation
and flocculation using ferric chloride, and surface skimming. The heavier solids
settle and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin. The lighter solids
float to the top and are skimmed off. The primary treatment process consists of four
primary batteries consisting of a total of 26 primary sedimentation tanks, skimming
system, raw sludge collection mechanism, and pumping apparatus.
c. Secondary Treatment – Includes activated sludge biological treatment using high
purity oxygen and secondary clarification. Activated sludge consists of
microorganisms that consume non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants
which form a settleable floc. Secondary clarification removes the biological floc from
the wastewater and the biological floc becomes part of the sludge. The secondary
process is comprised of nine reactor modules each with a design capacity of 50
MGD, a cryogenic facility to produce high purity oxygen, 36 circular clarifiers each
with a design capacity of about 30 MGD, and a Return Activated Sludge (RAS)
pumping system.
d. Service Water facility - The Hyperion Treatment Plant also contains a Service Water
Facility that accepts approximately 11 MGD of secondary-treated effluent to
produce service water for internal plant use. Approximately 5 MGD of the secondary
effluent is directed through a filtration process and then used to provide cooling
water at the on-site cryogenic facility. The spent cooling water from the cryogenic
facility is combined with the final effluent before entering the Effluent Pumping Plant
for discharge (See attachment C1). The spent cooling water is not expected to
negatively impact effluent quality due to the low flow rate compared to total flow and
the process is only expected to alter the temperature of the cooling water (no
chemical addition). The Permittee is also required to monitor the temperature of the
final effluent and this Order/Permit includes a final effluent limitation for temperature
of 100°F. The remaining service water is disinfected and used as high pressure
effluent for a variety of uses within the Facility such as line flushing, equipment seal
water, sluice water at the headworks, chemical dilution, facility wash-down, and
clarifier scum break-down. The Service Water Facility provides a lower cost
alternative while also reducing the Permittee’s reliance on imported potable water.
e. Solids Processing - Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment processes
include grit, primary screenings, primary sludge and skimming, thickened waste
activated sludge, digested sludge screenings and digester cleaning solids. The fine
solids (grit, primary screenings, digested sludge screenings, digester cleaning
solids) that consist of primarily inorganic materials are hauled away to landfills. The
remaining solid fractions (primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 02/02/17) F-8
[Page 123]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2017-0045
HYPERION TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
sludge) are anaerobically digested onsite. The digested solids are screened and
dewatered using centrifuges. Since January 1, 2003, the Hyperion Treatment Plant
has implemented full thermophilic digestion to generate Class A “EQ” biosolids
using 18 anaerobic digesters. The biosolids (treated sewage sludge) are
beneficially reused offsite at the Green Acre Farm in Kern County for land
application and composting projects. The digester gas is cleaned and a major part
of the gas is currently exported to the Los Angeles Department of Water and
Power’s Scattergood Steam Generating Plant, located immediately adjacent to the
Hyperion Treatment Plant. The exported digester gas is used as fuel in the
generation of electricity. In return, the generating plant provides steam for digester
heating for the Hyperion Treatment Plant. During interruptions in the export of
steam from the Scattergood Steam Generation Plant, digester gas can be used as
fuel for in-plant boilers that provide steam to heat the anaerobic digesters. Any
remaining non-exported digester gas may be flared, if necessary, and is regulated
under a flare operation permit from the South Coast Air Quality Management District
(AQMD). Attachment B provides a map of the area around the facility.
The Hyperion Treatment Plant has an industrial wastewater Pretreatment Program
which is approved by USEPA and the Regional Water Board. The City continues to
implement the Pretreatment Program thr

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Digestor Gas Utilization Project (DGUP) is currently under construction and is scheduled
for start-up by January 2017. The DGUP will fully utilize digester gas to generate ample
electricity to serve the current needs of HTP (approximately 20 MW), while concurrently
producing steam for use in the biosolids digestion process. The Service Water Facility will
provide approximately 25 MGD of cooling water for the DGUP and the spent cooling water will
be combined with the final effluent before entering the Effluent Pumping Plant for discharge
(See Attachment C1). The spent cooling water is not expected to negatively impact effluent
quality due to the low flow rate compared to total flow and the process is only expected to alter
the temperature of the cooling water (no chemical addition). In addition, the Permittee is
required to monitor the temperature of the final effluent and this Order/Permit contains a final
effluent limitation for temperature of 100ºF.
The Permittee is also expanding its recycled water system and plans on submitting a Notice of
Intent to receive coverage under the State Water Resources Control Board’s General Water
Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Wat