[Page 62]
2. Wastewater Treatment
comparison of average summer and winter flows.
The Facilityhas design treatment capacities of 0.71 million gallons per day (mgd) (average dry
weather flow) and 3.5 mgd (maximum sustained wet-weather peak flow). Wastewater
treatment is accomplished by coarse screening and aerated grit removal, three extended
aeration activated sludge basins, three secondary clarifiers, and two tertiary filters, followed by
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection. The third aeration basin is currently for additional storage
and basic secondary treatment during high influent flows. The Facility is being upgraded to
include biological nutrient removal of nitrogen and phosphorus. The details of this upgrade are
described in section II.E of this Fact Sheet.
During periods of high influent flow, flow that exceeds the Facility wet weather treatment
capacity is diverted to a one (1) million gallon Emergency Holding Pond, then retreated through
the treatment plant as capacity allows. The Emergency Holding Pond stores primary effluent
sent there from the headworks or from Aeration Basin No. 3. Tertiary effluent not meeting
permit limits for turbidity, dechlorination, or contact time values is automatically diverted to
the Emergency Holding Pond. The bottom of the Emergency Holding Pond is at 39.0 feet
elevation, while 0 feet of freeboard is at 50.0 feet elevation. To protect the pond from failure, an
emergency overflow is at 47.25 feet elevation. The Emergency Holding Pond overflow pipe
connects with the Russian River Outfall line after the control valve, but prior to the Russian
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 63]
River Outfall meter. According to the Storage Curve, the Emergency Holding Pond has 0.8 MG of
storage at the emergency overflow of 47.25 feet elevation (2.75 feet freeboard). A barrier has
been inserted in the emergency overflow structure so that the Emergency Holding Pond does
not spill into the overflow pipeline until the pond level is at 1.0 MG of storage at 49.0 feet (1 foot
freeboard). As influent flow subsides, raw wastewater from the Emergency Holding Pond is
3. Effluent Storage
directed back to the headworks for treatment.
Tertiary treated, disinfected wastewater is held in a 3.5 million gallon Effluent Storage Pond
(also known as the “Holding Pond” by operations staff) prior to discharge to the Russian River
(October 1 – May 14) or the recycled water/land disposal system. The Effluent Storage Pond
also fills the redwood tank at the top of the hill that supplies recycled water for various uses
including irrigation of the Northwood Golf Course and the upper and lower Burch properties,
as well as utility water for plant processes and fire hydrants around the plant. During river
discharge, a control valve is used to adjust the flow from the effluent storage pond through the
Russian River Outfall line. The bottom of the effluent storage pond is at 39.0 feet elevation,
while 0 feet of freeboard is at 57.0 feet elevation. To protect the pond from failure, an
emergency overflow is at 56.0 ft elevation. The effluent storage pond overflow pipe connects
with the Russian River Outfall line after the control valve but prior to the Russian River Outfall
4. Recycled Water and Land Disposal
meter.
From May 15 through September 30, when discharges to the Russian River are prohibited, the
treated wastewater is used for irrigation of the Northwood Golf Course. The Northwood Golf
Course is located south of the treatment Facility an

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
ACLO No. R1-2011-0009.
The Report of Waste Discharge identified plans to upgrade the Facility to include biological
nutrient removal (BNR) for more effective nitrification and denitrification to occur in order to
ensure compliance with ammonia and nitrate effluent limitations. The project involves
construction of a Modified Ludzak Ettinger process for BNR using active and still basins. In
addition, the upgrade will include phosphorus removal functionality in anticipation of future
regulation of phosphorus. The construction will encompass a micro diffuser aeration system to
be installed in the existing aeration basins, along with a concrete service walkway-bearing wall
and fiberglass reinforced baffle walls to create the desirable habitats for optimized biological
activity. Within these portioned habitats, mixers and a recirculation pump system will be
installed as well as sensors for control of the system. The aeration system will be fed with high
efficiency blowers that will be able to modulate their outputs based on feedback from the
sensors. A control panel to control all these mechanical inputs will be installed as part of the
upgrade project. Section VI.C.7 of this Order includes a compliance schedule that requires startup
of the BNR treatment process by October 1, 2014 and compliance with final effluent limitations
and discharge specifications for ammonia and nitrate by December 1, 2014. Aspects of the
upgrade project that are not critical to operation and startup will be completed by January 2015.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 67]
The Permittee is also planning to construct a 3.5 million gallon equalization basin. The final EIR
certification and project approval occurred in 2009. The Permittee does not currently have
funding for this project.
The Permittee also certified an EIR for an irrigation expansion project in 2009. The Permittee
does not currently have funding for this project. In addition, more planning efforts would be
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
required to identify a