[Page 14]
2. Effluent Filter Monitoring (Monitoring Location INT-001B)
monthly self-monitoring report.
a. Monitoring.
The turbidity of the filter effluent shall be continuously measured and
recorded at Monitoring Location INT-001B. Should the turbidity meter and recorder fail,
grab sampling at a minimum frequency of 1.2 hours may be substituted for a period of
up to 24 hours. The recorded data shall be maintained by the Permittee for at least 3
years. The daily maximum and 95th percentile turbidity results shall be reported on the
b. Compliance.
monthly monitoring reports.
Compliance with the effluent turbidity limitation specified in section
IV.D.1.b. (Filtration Process Requirements) of this Order shall be determined using the
levels of recorded turbidity taken at intervals of no more than 1.2 hours over a 24-hour
c. Reporting.
period.
If the filter effluent turbidity exceeds an average of 2 NTU during a 24-hour
period, 5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time during a 24-hour period, or 10 NTU at
any time, the incident shall be reported in the monthly self-monitoring report and the
incident shall be reported to the Regional Water Board and CDPH by telephone within
24 hours in accordance with Provision VI.A.2.b of the Order only if the effluent was sent
to the recycled water distribution system or discharged to the Russian River. A written
report describing the incident and the actions undertaken in response shall be included
in the monthly self-monitoring report. Mitigation of the event shall consist of diverting
the non-compliant effluent, land application at Discharge Point 003, or automatically
activated chemical addition to comply with title 22 requirements (sections 60304 and
B. Disinfection Process Monitoring for UV Disinfection System (Monitoring Location INT-002)
60307).
1. Monitoring.
The UV transmittance of the effluent from the UV disinfection system shall be
monitored continuously and recorded at Monitoring Location INT-002. The operational UV
2. Compliance.
dose shall be calculated from UV transmittance and flow.
The UV transmittance shall not fall below 55 percent of maximum at any time,
unless otherwise approved by CDPH. The operational UV dose shall not fall below 100
2
millijoules per square centimeter (mJ/cm ) at any time, unless otherwise approved by CDPH.
Flow through the UV disinfection system shall not exceed 3.7 mgd, unless otherwise
3. Reporting.
approved by CDPH.
The Permittee shall report daily average and lowest daily transmittance and
operational UV dose on its monthly monitoring reports. The Permittee shall report daily
average and minimum flow through the UV disinfection system. If the UV transmittance falls
2,
below 55 percent or UV dose falls below 100 mJ/cm the event shall be reported to the
Regional Water Board and the CDPH by telephone with 24 hours. Any inadequately treated
and disinfected wastewater shall be diverted to a storage basin or an upstream process for
C. Visual Monitoring at Monitoring Locations LND-001 and REC-001
adequate treatment.
Visual

===PLANNED CHANGES===

