[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
complete on February 2, 2015.
The Permittee owns and operates the Facility, a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility
that serves a population of approximately 4,000, including 1,000 full-time residents and many visitors
and tourists to Mendocino City, Russian Gulch State Park, and Headlands State Park. The Facility is
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
located on 10500 Kelly Street in Mendocino, Mendocino County, California.
The Facility treats domestic and commercial wastewater and has an average dry weather design
treatment capacity of 0.3 mgd and a peak daily wet weather treatment capacity of 1.0 mgd. The
Facility consists of comminution, extended aeration activated sludge, secondary clarification, and
tertiary filtration. Effluent is chlorinated, dechlorinated, and flows by gravity to a flow
equalization pond. Influent flows in excess of the design flow can be routed to a 300,000 gallon
overflow pond for storage until flows diminish, when the excess flow is routed back to the
headworks for treatment. Effluent from the equalization pond is controlled at flow control
structure A by sliding stop gates, from which flow continues to flow to control structure B, which
has two pressure control valves to prevent backflow conditions in the outfall. From flow control
structure B, effluent is discharged through a diffuser at Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean.
The outfall structure is an 8-inch diameter pipe, 996 feet in length, which provides a minimum
initial dilution of 100:1. Onsite storm water runoff is diverted to the plant headworks for
treatment.
Solids are aerobically digested and dewatered to approximately 12 percent solids by a belt filter
press, then dehydrated to approximately 90 percent solids using a sludge dryer. Condensate from
the dryer is returned to the headworks for treatment. Biosolids are transported to a landfill for
final disposal.
During the dry weather season (generally May through October) and other periods, as needed,
tertiary treated effluent is distributed to a water recycling system at Discharge Point 002, which
consists of a 55,000 gallon storage tank, accompanying appurtenances, and a pop-up sprinkler
system located on the Mendocino High School athletic fields. Disinfected tertiary recycled water
is pumped to the high school storage tank in a “batch” fashion, and each tank of recycled water
transferred to the storage tank must be used for field irrigation before the tank is refilled from
Attachment F – Fact Sheet

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
appropriately, thereby preventing discharges to surface waters.
The Permittee has notified the Regional Water Board of plans to rebuild the sludge drying beds,
and to install a new blower for the activated sludge basins and an emergency generator. The
Permittee may expand the recycled water system to include other irrigation uses and possible
toilet flushing at Headlands State Park. No other modifications or operational changes that will
cause a material change in the volume or quality of discharges from the Facility have been
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
identified for the term of thi