[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
reissuance of its WDRs and NPDES permit on March 2, 2015.
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF or Facility) and
associated wastewater collection, reclamation, and disposal facilities that serve a population of 9,000
residential and commercial users. The Facility receives septage from local area haulers. Septage is
handled directly through the solids handling portion of the WWTF, with separated liquids then
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
diverted to the headworks.
The Facility is located northeast of Willits, California adjacent to Broaddus Creek and Baechtel
Creek and serves the City of Willits, the Brooktrails Community Services District and the
Meadowbrook Manor Sanitation District. From October 1 through May 14, treated wastewater is
discharged from Discharge Point 003 to Outlet Creek, downstream of the confluence of Broaddus
Creek and Baechtel Creek. From May 15 through September 30 and all other times seasonally
appropriate, treated wastewater is recycled via irrigation on adjacent pasture lands. Outlet Creek
is tributary to the Eel River within the Outlet Creek Hydrologic Subarea of the Upper Main Eel
River Hydrologic Area.
Order No. R1-2010-0017 included effluent limitations and monitoring requirements for
discharges from the former WWTF at Discharge Point 001 (Monitoring Location EFF-001) and
the upgraded WWTF at Discharge Points 002, 003, and 004 (Monitoring Locations EFF-002, EFF-
003, and EFF-004, respectively). The Permittee completed upgrades to the Facility and began
discharging from the new WWTF in February 2013. As part of that upgrade, Discharge Point 001
was eliminated. Therefore, the effluent limitations for Discharge Point 001 and associated
monitoring requirements at Monitoring Location EFF-001 have not been retained in this Order.
The Facility includes primary treatment at the headworks building, an enhanced extended
aeration activated sludge treatment process with nutrient removal, ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection, followed by enhanced effluent treatment and storage within the enhancement
wetlands. The Facility is sized and constructed to provide the current required treatment
capacity and accommodate anticipated growth through 2025. Although treatment components of
the Facility have been designed to accommodate higher flows, the Permittee has only requested a
permitted discharge of an average monthly flow up to 4.0 mgd.
Primary treatment is provided in a two-story headworks building and influent pump station.
Influent to the Facility is directed to the influent pump station wet well chamber below the first
level of the headworks building. Influent from the wet well chamber is measured by magnetic
meters at INF-001. The wet well chamber has four pumps and removes floatables with a pre-
rotation process. The two larger pumps (38.9 horsepower (HP) each) can pump up to 2,430
gallons per minute (gpm). The two smaller pumps (25.4 HP each) can pump up to 1,215 gpm.
Wastewater in the wet well is pumped through two screw conveyed inclined screens to the
second-story. Solids removed by the inclined screens are conveyed by chutes and bagged for
disposal by Solids Waste Services. Wastewater from the inclined screens is directed to a grit
removal and classification chamber. The grit classifier is supplied by two alternating 15 HP
pumps rated at 300 gpm. Solids from the grit removal process are collected in a bin on the first
level. The headworks treatment processes are sized to handle a future peak influent flow capacity
of 10 mgd.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 71]
Primary treated wastewater exceeding the secondary treatment capacity is diverted by a
secondary influent splitter box to the first of five storm equalization ponds located on the south
end of the Facility property. Flow entering the equalization basins is measured at INF-002. The
equalization ponds have a combined total capacity of approximately 16 million gallons. Pond No.
1 is lined with concrete, while the remaining ponds are lined with impermeable clay liners.
During periods of wet weather, influent flows that exceed the capacity of the Facility are directed
into Pond No. 1. When Pond No. 1 has reached capacity, excess wastewater flows over a weir into
Pond No. 2, leaving behind any settleable solids as it skims the wastewater off the top. When
Pond No. 2 reaches capacity, wastewater flows into Pond No. 3 via a pipe set at the bottom of the
pond, which removes floatables as they remain at the top. Wastewater is piped from Pond No. 3
to Pond Nos. 4 and 5 as required by wet weather flows. Flow between each of the ponds is
controlled by gravity. When influent flows to the Facility drop below the treatment capacity,
wastewater from Pond No. 1 can be directed back to the headworks through a pipe in the
northeast corner of the pond. Flows re-entering the headworks are measured at INF-003. A one-
way flow restrictor between Pond Nos. 1 and 2 opens as the flow reverses and allows water from
the ponds to be redirected from the ponds to the headworks.
Septage is received at the Facility from septage haulers who discharge into a solids separator and
diverted directly into the solids handing portion of the WWTF. Liquids separated from the
processing of solids are held in the aerobic digester then return for treatment to the headworks.
The extended aeration system provides efficient biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and nutrient
removal. A long solids retention time in the extended aeration system provides process stability
and, due to the large quantity of biological solids present, wide swings in organic and hydraulic
loads can be handled without adjustments to the process or equipment. The extended aeration
system produces well digested and stabilized biomass. The extended aeration system is designed
for a peak hydraulic capacity of 7.0 mgd.
Each of the two aeration basins contains eight diffuser chains. The air to each diffuser chain is
individually controlled by a motorized valve which operates on a timed cycle during
denitrification mode. When diffuser chains are turned off, anoxic zones are created to promote
denitrification. Of the eight diffuser chains in each basin, six operate as part of the timed cycle
with three chains on and three off.
The two basins are 134 feet wide at grade and 150 feet in length, measured at the top of the
berm, providing a combined volume of 2.437 million gallons. The basins are lined with a
polypropylene reinforced geomembrane with a minimum thickness of 60 millimeters (mm).
The two circular clarifiers are 70 feet diameter by 14 feet deep tanks constructed of concrete. The
combined capacity of the two clarifiers is 7.0 mgd. At a peak flow of 7.0 mgd, the overflow rate of
the clarifiers is 1,099 gpd/SF. The three screw centrifugal return activated sludge (RAS) pumps
have a capacity of 1,250 gpm each, with a maximum return rate of 3.6 mgd. Two pumps are
operated at all times while one is reserved for backup. The RAS pumps are located adjacent to the
clarifiers. A 4” pump conveys waste activated sludge (WAS) to the aerobic digester.
The UV disinfection system is designed to achieve a median total coliform organism
concentration of less than 23 most probable number per 100 milliliters (MPN/100 mL) and a
daily maximum concentration of 230 MPN/100 mL. The delivered dose is a function of the clarity
of the water or the UV transmissivity (UVT). The design of the system conservatively assumes
transmissivity of 55 percent. The UV disinfection system is sized to handle capacities as low as
0.35 mgd and as great as 7.0 mgd.
Following disinfection, effluent is discharged into an enhancement wetland for further treatment.
The enhancement wetland is located on a 40-acre parcel owned by the Permittee located
immediately east of the Facility on the east side of Outlet Creek. The enhancement wetland
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 72]
consists of approximately 30 acres of free water surface, with the remaining acreage set aside for
potential wetland and floodplain mitigation and an Outlet Creek setback zone. The wetland
consists of three cells; each planted with a variety of wetland species and operated at a normal
operating depth of one to two feet. The wetland is lined with clay soils. The exterior berms
surrounding the cells are approximately eight to 10 feet tall and the interior berms are 6 feet tall.
The Permittee provides for approximately three feet of active storage above the normal
operating depth providing approximately 90 acre-feet (ac-ft) of active storage and buffering prior
to discharge to Outlet Creek. An additional 90 ac-ft of storage (three-foot depth) above the active
storage volume is available for use during critical discharge periods to help reduce potential
discharge violations, provide capacity for future growth, and provide another layer of
redundancy and reliability. Each cell in the enhancement wetland is stepped down approximately
two feet from south to north. Flow between the cells is controlled by a series of weir structures.
From October 1 through May 14 each year, treated wastewater from the enhancement wetland
may be discharged to Outlet Creek at Discharge Point 003, which is located at the north end of the
wetland. The discharge from the wetland passes through a slide gate with a motor actuated
operator to a 30-inch outfall pipe. The outfall pipe incorporates flow metering to provide control
of the outfall discharge proportional to the measured flow in Outlet Creek. The outfall pipe
consists of approximately 600 feet of 30-inch pipe, a metering vault, and a concrete outfall
structure located at the creek. Utilizing the full capacity of the enhancement wetland, the Facility
is able to maintain the 10 percent discharge rate 99.5 percent of the time at an average monthly
design capacity of 10.0 mgd.
From May 15 through September 30 and any other time seasonally appropriate, treated
wastewater is recycled for spray irrigation of near-by and adjacent pastureland at Discharge
Point 004. The irrigation pump station includes vertical turbine pumps located in a rectangular
reinforced concrete wet well. The wet well is connected to the last cell of the enhancement
wetland though a weir designed to maintain a minimum depth of 1.5 feet in the wetland to
ensure optimum aquatic plant survival conditions. The pumps can be operated manually and
automatically.
A 36-inch rotary fan press is used for the dewatering and drying process and mechanically
separates liquids and solids, producing dewatered biosolids at 15 to 18 percent. The rotary fan
press is capable of dewatering at a maximum rate of 40 gpm. The effluent from the rotary fan
press is pumped into a 30 cubic yard dump box. Solids from the dump box dump into a
containment area and are then transferred to the composting area. Supernate from the dump box
is piped to the headworks.
Composting is achieved through a three-step process including mixing, composting and curing,
and storage. Dewatered biosolids are mixed with wood chips or sawdust at a 1:1 ratio by a front-
end loader on a paved area east of and adjacent to the northernmost equalization basin. After
approximately one month of residence time, the mixture is moved to a compost pile where it
continues to dry and composting begins. The compost pile is turned each month and is allowed to
compost for six to 12 months. The compost mixture is then moved to a storage pile and allowed
to cure for at least a year. The finished compost is then land applied on an 18-acre agricultural
parcel owned by the Permittee and located immediately west of the Facility. Compost is applied
to approximately one-third of the parcel (six acres) each year. The section receiving compost is
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
fenced to prohibit access by grazing livestock during the early portion of the growing season.
During the discharge season (October 1 through May 14), wastewater may be discharged to
Outlet Creek at Discharge Point 003 (39° 25’ 38” N latitude and 123° 20’ 37” W longitude),
downstream of the confluence of Baechtel Creek and Broaddus Creek, within the Out

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
2010-0017.
The Permittee plans to install a more formal septic hauling station to alleviate processing
demands on the treatment process. The septage station would include an alternate headworks
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
[Page 75]
which would be accessed by haulers through a card key system. The septage would filter through
the screening and grit removal process and go to a batch tank where random or targeted samples
could be taken. The septage would then be treated in a polymer injection station, dewatered, and
incorporated with other biosolids into the general composting area. Water extracted from the
septage would be directed into the headworks for treatment. The Permittee is also assessing the
feasibility of producing Class A biosolids.
In addition, the Permittee is considering plans to replace the Langemann Gate at EFF-003 with a
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
v-notch weir to enhance flow monitoring performance.
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described in
A. Leg