[Page 58]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
complete on November 6, 2014.
The Permittee owns and operates the Facility, a domestic wastewater and reclamation facility that
serves a population of approximately 1,500 within the Humboldt County Resort Improvement District
No. 1. The Facility is located on Lower Pacific Drive at Wave Drive in Shelter Cove, Humboldt County,
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
California.
The treatment facility has an average dry weather design treatment capacity of 0.17 mgd, an
average wet weather treatment capacity of 0.27 mgd, and a peak daily wet weather treatment
capacity of 0.77 mgd. The wastewater treatment plant is an extended aeration, activated sludge
system comprised of two oxidation ditches, two clarifiers, chlorine contact chamber and sulfur
dioxide dechlorination. The Facility also includes an advanced treatment filtration system for
effluent reused for irrigation of the Shelter Cove Golf Course.
During the winter period, all of the secondary treated effluent is discharged through Discharge
Point 001 into the surf zone of the Pacific Ocean within the King Range National Conservation
Area. During the spring, summer, and fall, some or all of the treated effluent is discharged
through Discharge Point 002 to a storage pond that supplies a spray irrigation system on the
Shelter Cove Golf Course, a nine-hole golf course.
Sludge solids are dewatered using a proprietary filter bag system. Sludge from the clarifiers is
placed in filter bags that allow the liquid to escape while retaining the solids. After a period of
drying, the bags containing dried sludge are taken to the Humboldt County solid waste transfer
station for landfill disposal.
Seasonal population trends and large amounts of infiltration and inflow (I/I) to the collection
system influence wastewater flows to the Facility. During the wet season (October – May), I/I
accounts for the majority of the flow to the Facility, while the dry season flows correspond to an
iInncflrueeanste F ilno wva &ca Ttiroena trmeseindte Cnatsp aancidty l oAwnaelry Is/isI. The Permitt

===PLANNED CHANGES===

