[Page 65]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
application was deemed complete on January 8, 2014.
The Permittee owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility that serves
a population of approximately 44,000 from the City of Eureka and unincorporated areas within the
Humboldt Community Services District. The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial
wastewater as well as treated groundwater from remediation projects and septage from local area
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
haulers. The Facility is located at 4301 Hilfiker Lane in Eureka, Humboldt County, California.
The Facility reports an average dry weather treatment capacity of 5.24 mgd, a peak dry weather
treatment capacity of 8.6 mgd, and a peak wet weather secondary treatment capacity of 12 mgd.
Wastewater is conveyed to the Facility through an extensive sanitary sewer system consisting of
125 miles of sewer mains, 9,500 service laterals, 17 lift stations, 3 pump stations, interceptor
lines, collection lines, and manholes. The system collects and conveys over 1.5 billion gallons of
wastewater per year, including infiltration and inflow (I/I). Once at the Facility, wastewater
undergoes primary treatment with mechanical bar screens, grit removal, and primary
clarification. Biological secondary treatment is accomplished using two trickling filters, followed
by secondary clarification, and chlorine disinfection. The chlorinated effluent is stored in a
holding pond then dechlorinated and discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Humboldt Bay in
conjunction with ebb tide cycles.
During periods of high flows, excess treated wastewater from the effluent holding pond can be
directed to the 13F-aincarel Efrnevsihrownamteern htaoll dIminpga mcta Rrespho (rOt v–e Wrflaoswte wMaatresrh M) aannda gpeummepnetd P blaanc kfo tro t thhee
eGfrfeluaetenrt Estuorreakgae A proenad once flows subside. The Overflow Marsh is a component of the Facility, as
described in the “
” (July 10, 1980), and as established in Waste Discharge Requirements Order
No. 81-1 adopted for the Facility by the Regional Water Board on January 22, 1981.
Solids are treated by anaerobic digestion and may be processed on site using a centrifuge or
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
stored in one of two facultative sludge lagoons.
Effluent is discharged at Discharge Point 001 via an outfall structure consisting of a 48-inch
dia°meter pipe, 4,100 feet in len°gth, and equipped with a multiple discharge port diffuser. Effluent
is discharged in conjunction with ebb tides at Discharge Point 001 into Humboldt Bay at
40 46’ 24” N latitude and 124 12’ 45” W longitude. Humboldt Bay, an enclosed bay, is a water of
Attachment F – F

[Page 67]
2. Feasviobliulimtye Aonf eaflfylusiesn fto tro Tbree caatrirniged P oeuatk i nWtoe tt hWe eoactehaenr. Discharges
. Federal regulations at
40 C.F.R section 122.41(m) define bypass as an “intentional diversion of waste streams from
any portion of a treatment facility.” These regulations further state that bypasses are
prohibited unless: (1) they are unavoidable to prevent severe property damage or personal
injury; (2) there are no feasible alternatives to bypass; and (3) the NPDES authority was
notified. The Regional Water Board may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the Regional Water Board determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed above. U.S. EPA strongly discourages reliance on peak wet weather flow
diversions around secondary treatment units as a long-term wet weather management
1
approach . As contemplated by U.S. EPA’s 2005 proposed policy, a utility analysis must
demonstrate that there are no feasible alternatives to bypass, which includes multiple
approaches to resolve the bypass condition and an evaluation of a Permittee’s ability to
finance associated costs.
Order No. R1-2009-0033 required the Permittee to complete a comprehensive analysis to
determine Fwehaestibhielirt yit Aisn afelyassiisb floer t oT reelaimtiinnga Ptee aakn tWiceipt aWteeda twheetr wDiesacthhaerrg besy passes of its
secondary treatment units. In response to this requirement, on January 8, 2014, the City
submitted (Utility Analysis).
The Utility Analysis provided an overview of existing hydraulic conditions at the Facility.
Review of the Utility Analysis indicates that upgrades are necessary to better measure flows,
improve secondary treatment capacity, manage or otherwise provide temporary storage for
influent flows, and reduce infiltration and inflow (I/I) into the collection system to minimize
or prevent bypass of secondary treatment during routine wet weather flow conditions. The
Permittee has indicated that they are conducting I/I reduction work on the collection
system. However the work done to date has not eliminated bypass occurrences. Further, the
Permittee has not documented that alternatives to bypass, such as the use of auxiliary
treatment facilities or retention of untreated wastes are infeasible.
Although the Regio

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Payment Amount of $9,000 for these violations.
Due to land application permitting issues, processing from the facultative sludge lagoons has not
effectively maintained pace with solids production. Solids have accumulated and the lagoons are
currently exceeding design capacity for solids storage. To address this issue, the Permittee has
recently obtained coverage under the State Water Resources Control Board Water Quality Order
No. 2004-0012–DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to
Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land
Reclamation Activities to