[Page 16]
II. MONITORING LOCATIONS
The Discharger shall establish the following monitoring locations to demonstrate compliance
with the discharge prohibitions, discharge specifications, and other requirements in this
Order:
Table B‐1 Monitoring Station Locations
Discharge Monitoring
Monitoring Location Description
Point Name Location Name
Effluent monitoring location following septic tank
‐‐ EFF‐001
treatment prior to discharge to groundwater.
‐‐ MW‐XX1 Monitoring wells located at leachfield areas.
1 Monitoring well locations to be determined as per General Provisions VII. Q.
III. EFFLUENT MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
A. Monitoring Location EFF‐001
1. When discharging at Discharge Point 001, the Discharger shall monitor treated
effluent at Monitoring Location EFF‐001 as follows:
Attachment B – Monitoring and Reporting Program B‐1
[Page 17]
The Tennant Community Services District WWTF
Orde

[Page 16]
1. When discharging at Discharge Point 001, the Discharger shall monitor treated
effluent at Monitoring Location EFF‐001 as follows:
Attachment B – Monitoring and Reporting Program B‐1
[Page 17]
The Tennant Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1‐2016‐0019
WDID No. 1A88031RSIS
Table B‐2. Effluent Monitoring – Monitoring Location EFF‐001
Minimum
Parameter Units Sample Type Sampling
Frequency
Flow (Mean Monthly) mgd Meter Daily
IV. SEPTIC TANK MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
A. Visual Inspections
1. Visual inspections of exterior plumbing, filters and leachfields shall take place at a
minimum once a month. Results of the inspections including the presence of odors,
evidence of surfacing effluent, or other signs of malfunction or improper operation shall
be reported in the quarterly monitoring report.
2. Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exists or may
occur before the next inspection:
a. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one‐third of the tank depth of
the first compartment; or
b. The scum layer is within three inches of the outlet device; or
c. The sludge layer is within eight inches of the outlet device.
3. The Discharger shall record the date and waste hauler information whenever a septic
tank is pumped. Receipts from the appropriately licensed waste hauler shall be
submitted in conjunction with quarterly reports whenever a tank pumping occurs.
V. RECEIVING WATER MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
A. Groundwater Monitoring
1. The Discharger shall monitor groundwater in the groundwater monitoring wells as
follows:
Table B‐3. Groundwater Monitoring – Monitoring Wells
Sample Minimum Sampling
Pa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

