[Page 1]
Facility
The Cal Fire Parlin Fork Conservation Camp (Facility) is owned by Cal Fire (Discharger)
and is located adjacent to Parlin Creek in the Jackson Demonstration Forest east of Fort
Bragg. The Discharger operates the Facility wastewater treatment system. The California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation oversees the operation of the on-site inmate
conservation camp. Approximately 100 minimum custody inmates reside at the Facility
and approximately 20 staff members are employed there. The Facility is not located in an
area served by a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic wastewater is
collected and treated on-site. The site location is shown on Attachment A, which is
attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The Facility is located on two 640-acre parcels. The conservation camp buildings, grease
interceptor, septic tanks, and one lift station are located along the northern boundary of
parcel APN No. 021-030-10. The lower leachfield, former wastewater pond, and second lift
station are located in the southwest corner of parcel APN No. 021-030-04 and the upper
leachfield is located near the western boundary.
Wastewater originating from Facility restrooms, showers, kitchen, and laundry facilities is
treated and disposed of via the on-site domestic wastewater treatment system. The
current wastewater system was installed in 1998 as required by Cease and Desist Order
(CDO) No. 98-38 to correct violations of Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) Order No.
97-52. CDO No. 98-38 was issued on March 26, 1998, due to on-going instances of
surfacing effluent from the lower leachfield.
WDR Order No. 97-52 authorized the discharge of treated wastewater from the
percolation/evaporation pond and the lower leachfield that received pond overflow.
Following installation of the current wastewater system in 1998, the wastewater pond was
periodically used in emergency pump failure situations when wastewater was sent by
gravity to the pond rather than pumped uphill to the upper leachfield. In 2016, Cal Fire
removed the wastewater pond by draining the water to the lower leachfield and backfilling
the pond with soil. Removal of the pond caused the lower leachfield to disconnect from the
existing wastewater collection system. The lower leachfield remains in place and Cal Fire is
considering possible future use of it during emergency pump failure situations. On August
26, 2016, Regional Water Board staff directed Cal Fire to submit a report of waste
discharge for review prior to approval of this proposed emergency use.
The current wastewater system serving the Facility consists of a gravity collection system,
grease interceptor, bar screen, two 10,000-gallon septic tanks, two lift stations, a 1,000-
gallon septic tank, and a subsurface disposal field.
[Page 2]
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 3 - March 13, 2017
Discharge Description
The Facility wastewater treatment system is designed for an average daily flow of 14,200
gallons per day (gpd). As described in the ROWD, the projected untreated and treated
domestic wastewater quality from the Facility is consistent with the characterization of
wastewater in the General Order.
The overall plan layout of the wastewater collection system is included as attachments to a
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection letter dated April 16, 1998, and a Cal Fire email
dated January 10, 2016. The letter, email and attachments are part of this NOA by
rPerfiemraernyc eT.r eatment and Collection System
Primary waste treatment and collection will be provided using a kitchen grease
interceptor, septic tanks, gravity collection system and lift stations, as described below.
A 1,500-gallon grease interceptor serves the kitchen of the mess hall building. The
Discharger pumps the interceptor twice a year. Wastewater passing through the
interceptor is combined with other Facility wastewater and directed to a bar screen for
removal of large solids and debris. After passing through the bar screen the wastewater is
directed to one of two 10,000-gallon septic tanks for primary treatment. The Discharger
pumps solids from the two septic tanks annually.
Following primary treatment in the septic tanks wastewater enters into an adjacent lift
station (Lift Station 1). Wastewater is then pumped from Lift Station 1 across a bridge and
uphill to a second lift station (Lift Station 2). Lift Station 2 is located adjacent to the
footprint of the former wastewater pond. Wastewater is pumped from Lift Station 2 uphill
to a septic tank and the upper leachfield.
Both lift stations are equipped with duplex pumps and float switches that are controlled
and monitored by an adjacent pump control panel with visual and audible alarms. A flow
mWeatsetre wata Lteifrt DSitsacthioanrg 1e mSyesatseumr es the volume of wastewater sent to the upper leachfield.
Following primary treatment, wastewater will be disposed of at the upper leachfield,
located in the area of a former orchard. Wastewater pumped to the upper leachfield septic
tank by Lift Station 2 is directed via a distribution box to one of two branches of the upper
leachfield. The lineal length of the upper leachfield is approximately 5,300 feet. The
northern most branch consists of 2,600 feet of leach line and 200 feet of infiltrator
chambers. The southern branch consists of 2,300 feet of leach line and 200 feet of
infiltrator chambers. The leachfield is designed to dispose of 14,200 gpd of wastewater
with an application rate of 0.6 gallons/square foot/day. The Discharger identified a 100
percent reserve disposal field area in the same area, directly adjacent to the upper
leachfield. The disposal field, reserve area, and treatment system components meet the
setback requirements in the General Order.
[Page 3]
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 4 - March 13, 2017
General WDR Order Coverage
Commencing on the date of this NOA, waste discharges from the Facility’s domestic
wastewater treatment system are regulated under the General Order (Order WQ 2014-
021. 5C3a-DliWfoQrn).

[Page 3]
2. The above reports shall be acceptable to the Regional Water Board Executive
Officer.
[Page 4]
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 5 - March 13, 2017
C. Septic Tanks
The domestic wastewater system serving the Facility includes septic tanks that provide
primary treatment of the wastewater. Septic tanks require proper operation, maintenance,
and monitoring in order to provide adequate and reliable wastewater service. This
includes periodic inspection and removal, as needed, of accumulated solids. Requirements
for septic tanks are included in General Order section B.2, Septic Systems, and in the
enclosed MRP, at section titled “Septic Tank Monitoring and Maintenance.” Qualified
service providers shall conduct operational maintenance and monitoring work on the
septic systems with appropriate oversight by the Discharger. The Discharger is responsible
for ensuring proper operation, maintenance, and monitoring of all septic tanks.
D. Subsurface Disposal System Requirements
The wastewater system includes dispersal of treated effluent to subsurface soil via a 5,300
lineal foot leachfield disposal system. The Discharger is required to maintain the capacity
of the disposal system to handle 100 percent of the design wastewater flows and to
maintain a reserve disposal area with an additional 100-percent capacity. The reserve area
is for future use, in case the existing disposal system is found to be inadequate. The reserve
area is required to remain available until needed. The Discharger has designated a reserve
d4i. spMosoanli atorerain agd ajancden Rt etpo othrtei nexgi sPtrinogg ruapmpe r leachfield.
The Discharger shall comply with enclosed MRP R1-2017-0009, for the Parlin Fork
Conservation Camp Wastewater Treatment System, which is part of this NOA by reference.
The MRP includes requirements for the monitoring and maintenance of the septic tanks, lift
stations and leachfield.
The Discharger shall submit quarterly self-monitoring reports and an annual summary
report to the Regional Water Board in accordance with the Table 6 of the MRP. The
D5.i scEhnafrogrecre smhaelnl tc onsult the MRP for all specific requirements.
The Discharger shall manage and discharge the waste subject to the terms and conditions
of the General Order and this NOA and shall maintain exclusive co

===PLANNED CHANGES===

