[Page 127]
I)%.(
D. On June 8, 1994, a Consent Decree [No. 92 0061 RG was entered in federal coui-t records
between the Discharger and the USEPA Region 9 and the Regional Water Board. The Consent Decree
primarily requires the Discharger to construct additional secondary treatlnent Facilities and achieve
compliallce with f~ilsl econdary treatment at JWPCP by December 3 1, 2002. The Discharger achieved
full secondary treatment on November 8, 2002. On May 29, 2008 the Discharger submitted a
certification that all penalties, costs, and fees had been paid; all reineclial measures and supplemei~tal
projects required by the Decree had been completed; and colnplia~lcef or twelve consecutive months
with the secondary treatment requireinents of 40 CFR Section 133.102 was achieved as of November 8,
2003. On January 7, 2009 the Discharger filed a Notice of Ter~ninationo f Conse~D~te cree with the
court and 011 January 21, 2009, the court acknowledged that the Conse~lDt ecree was terminated.
I
I
TI. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
I
A. Description of Wastcwater and Biosolids Treatment Controls
01-
The Discharger owns and operates the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant, located at 24501 Soutl~
Figueroa Street in Carson, California. JWPCP has a monthly average daily dry weather design
treat~neiltc apacity of 400 millioll gallons per day (MGD) and a dry weather peak design capacity of
540 MGD of secondary treatment. The wet weather pealt hydraulic capacity is up to 675 MGD. For
the period from Septembe~2 009 to August 2010, secondary effluent discharge flow fsoin JWPCP has
averaged 280 MGD with a ~naxiinu~dnai ly flow of 428 MGD. .IWPCP receives discharges from inore
than 900significant industrial users.
JWPCP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the Joint Outfall System, which
i~icorporatesJ WPCP and six upstrea~nw ater reclamation plants - La Cafiada, Whittier Narrows, Sari
Jose Creek, Pomona, Los Coyotes and Long Beach. The six upstrea111 plants are co~l~lectetdo a
coinnlon sewer system, which al10,ws for the diversion of desired flows into or around each upstream
plant. The flow from the six upstream plants can be bypassed, to a limited extent, to JWPCP. The
sludge generated from the upstream plants are returned to the joint outfall trunk sewers and conveyed to
JWPCP for further treatment. The Joint Outfall Systeln serves an urba11 area of 654 square miles and
i~icludesa ll or part of 78 cities in addition to multiple communities and unincorporated areas. The Joint
Outfall System provides wastewater treatment services to IIIUC~I of Los Angeles Coimty. There are
approsi~natelyf ive nill lion people in the Joint Outfall System service area.
The treatment system at JWPCP consists of screening, grit removal, primary sedimei~tation,p ure
oxygen activated sludge reactors, secol~daryc larification, and chlorination. Effluent froin the prinlary
sedilnentation tanlts is biologically treated in pure oxygen activated sludge reactors. The secondary
treated effluent is then clarified, chlorinated and pumped into the outfall inanifold. The secondary
treated effluent froin JWPCP is routinely discharged through Discharge Points 001 and 002 to the
Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States, at White Point within the Palos Verdes Peninsula Sub-
Watershed that is part of the Santa Monica Bay Watershed.
~
Attachment F (Adopted Version: September 1, 201 1) F-4
[Page 128]
I
I
1
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER NO. R4-2011-0151
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
Solid fractions recovered froin wastewater treatnlent processes include grit, primary screenings,
prilnary sludge and sltimmings, tllicltened waste activated sludge, digested sludge screenings and
digester cleaning solids. The fine solids (grit, priinary screenings, digested sludge screenings, digester
cleaning solids) which are primarily inorganic inaterials are hauled away to a la~~dfilTl.h e relnaiiling
solid fsactions (primary sludge and sltiin~nings,t hicltened waste activated sludge) are anaerobically
digested on-site. The digested solids are screenecl, and dewatered ~isings croll ceiitrif~~gesJ.W PCP
generates approxiiiiately 118,000 dry metric tons of Class B biosolids per ycar. Tlie biosolids are
hauled off-site for use in cornposting and land application, co~nbilledw it11 inu~-ticipasl olid waste for co-
disposal, or processed into a renewable fuel for celnent Itilns.
Methane gas generated in the anaerobic digestion process is used to produce power and digester heating
steal11 in a total energy facility that utilizes gas turbines and waste-heat recovery steam generators. The
on-site generatioil of electricity permits the JWPCP to produce its own electricity.
Each treatment process is described in inore detail below.
Priinc~rva nd Secondary Treatment
Primary treat~nentb egins with two inlet worlts that receive flow from three influent sewers. Inlet
Worlts No. 1 receives approximately 70% of the total plant flow and Inlet Worlts No. 2 receives the
remaining 30%. Six bar screens for Inlet Worlts No. 1 and three bar screens for Inlet Works No. 2
relnove solids by capturing large debris through bars spaced approximately 1 inch apart. Captmed
debris is co~ltinuouslyre inoved fsom each bar screen, by five equally spaced raltes, and deposited into a
trough. The troug1-1 delivers the debris to one of two dewatering compactors. Water reinoved in the
colnpactors is returned to the treatment process upstseain of the bar screens while the dewatered debris
is disposed of in a landfill. Wastewater effluent fronl the bar screens is directed to one of six grit
chambers, which reiilove lieavy illorganic material. Grit slurry is pumped froin the chambers and
dcwatered with the use of cyclones and clarifiers. The water is returned to the inlet of the grit chambers
and tlie dewatered grit is disposed of in a landfill. Wastewater froin the grit chambers is then directed
to tlie sedimentation taiilts for settleable and floatable solids removal. The JWPCP has 52 prilnary
sedimentatio~ta~n lts arranged illto three sedimentation tanl< batteries. The wastewater enters each tank
tlirough three inlet gates with diffusers. Flow is reduced fi-orn roughly 3 feet per second to 3 feet per
minute to allow suspended solids to settle. Sludge is directed through draw off lines and pumped to raw
sludge transfer stations before transfer to anaerobic digesters. Floatable solids are pushed to the
effluent end of the tank where they are pulled up into a skimmings trough, tllen conveyed to one of four
sltimniings wet wells. Ultiillately the slti~nmingsa re directed to one of 24 circular ai~aerobicd igesters,
eacli with a voluine of approximately 500,000 cubic feet, for final processillg. Anaerobic digestion of
the sludge reduces tlle concentration of pathogens, offensive odors, and the overall ainount of solids to
be dewatered. It also produces methane as a by-product, which is used to power the JWPCP.
A secondary influent pumping station pumps prilnary eflluent to the secondary treat~nentf acilities.
Eight biological reactors, each with a design capacity of 50 MGD, convert finely divided and dissolved
organic matter that passes tlirough prilnary treatment into settleable solids than can be removed by final
clarification. Each reactor is subdivided into four stages, each stage with three aerators/mixers to
facilitate oxygen dissolution and mixing. The first stage of the reactors is operated as an anaerobic
selector, with limited exposure to oxygen to suppress the growth of cel-tain organisms in tlle activated
sludge. In the followillg three stages, the activated sludge consumes organic matter in the mixed liquor
and produces inore orgallisins. The foul-tli stage of soiile of the reactors also functions as a pH
acljustn~ents tage. The reactors are covered to setain the high purity oxygen gas introduced illto the
systeni and permit a high degree of oxygen utilization by tl~eac tivated sludge.
Attachment F (Adopted Versioi~:S eptenlber 1, 201 1)
[Page 129]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER NO. R4-2011-0151
JOINT WATER POLLUTlON CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO CA0053813
After passing through the biological reactors, wastewater flows into the final clarifiers to separate the
activated sludge solids fiom the biological reactor's mixed liquor. Each reactor has a bank of 26
I sedin~entationta nks where floatable material is slti~nnledo ff the top, collected, and directed to a sewer
line. Solids that settle to the bottom are scraped to two hoppers where the sludge is collected and drawn
off to return sludge pumping stations. There is one pumping station per reactor, each consisting of
tliree pumps, that pumps activated sludge to the inlet of the reactors to keep an effective concelltration
oE microorganisms in the reactors. However, a portion of the activated sludge is wasted fiom the
reactor/clarifier syste~nto lnaintain the desired populatioll of lnicroorganis~nsin the reactors.
A dissolved air flotation thickening system is used to concentrate the waste activated sludge produced
in secondary treatment. Solids on the surface of the flotation tank are collected using slti~nlnersa nd
then pumped to the anaerobic digestion system, located with the primary treatment facilities. The
clarified effluent is returned to the secondary influent force main. Secondary effluent is disinfected
using a bleacl~s olution to achieve a chlorine residual of approxilnately 1-2 1i1g/L and then is either
pumped or gravity fed, depending on tidal conditions, to the Pacific Ocean.
Discharge fro111 the 24 circular digesters is diverted into three p~11i1ps tation wet wells, one of which is
the central wet well for transfer of digested sludge to solids processing. The central wet well consists of
three individual structures, each with a capacity of 822,800 gallons and equipped with two gas blowers
that p~nnpd igester gas into the wet well to provide mixing. Sludge is pumped using three digested
sludge p~niptsl ~roughro tary screens and into centrif~~gfeee d pu~npings tation wet wells, housing a total
of five pumps. The pumps are used to deliver digested sludge to the centrifuges, which are used to
separate water fiom the suspended solids. There are currently 3 1 low-speed and 8 Iiigll-speed
centrif~~gesT.h e high-speecl centrif~~gaerse capable of increasing gravity up to a factor of 3,000, while
the low-speed centrifuges increase gravity by a factor of approximately 1,000. Diluted cationic
polynler is used in the process to enhance flocculation. The dewatered calte (biosolids) drops through a
hopper below each elevated centrifuge onto a conveyor belt, wl~ilet he waste centrate is collected
through a second hopper into a centrate drainage system. Eighteel1 storage silos, each of which can
hold up to 5 10 tons, store the biosolids prior to conveyance to truck loading stations. Centrate from the
centrif~~geiss collected and gravity flows to the Centrate Treat~nentS ystem Facility, where solids are
concentrated using dissolved air flotation. The clarified effluent from the Centrate Treatment Facility
discharges to a wet well, wliere it gravity flows to the influent of the JWPCP.
Power Generation
I
I The JWCP is self-reliant wit11 respect to power generation. All of the power and most of the heating
steam require~nelltsf or the plant are provided by three digester gas fired turbi~lesa nd one steam turbine.
I
1 : Utility power is available whenever the on-site power plant is out of service.
Digester gas must be dewatered and scrubbed of particulate matter prior to combustion. Digester gas is
.first scrubbed, using two Venturi scrubbers and non-potable water, and particulate matter is regularly
blown-down from the scrubber storage tanks. Two mist eliminators downstrea~no f the Venturi
scrubbers remove water droplets from the gas stream, and the digester gas is then f~~~ttrheeatre d using
two chillers that condense water vapor. Fro111 there, digester gas is directed to a surge tank prior to
compression. Natural gas is used to boost the heat input during periods of low digester gas production.
Three compressors are used to compress the digester gas, or a ruixt~~oref digester gas and natural gas,
from approximately 10 inches of water column to approxiinately 350 pounds per square inch (psig).
Prior to combustion in the gas turbine, the high-pressure digester gas is chilled to 40 degrees
Fahrenheit, using a refrigeration system, to remove any remaining water vapor. As mentioned above,
three gas-fired turbines, each equipped with a 9.9 MW electric generator, are the nornlal source of
Attachment F (Adopted Version: September 1,2011 ) F-6
[Page 130]
'i
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER NO. R4-2011-0151
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
power for the JWCP. Typically, only two gas turbines are in action while one acts as a standby.
During periods when the gas turbines are not operational, digester gas can be burned at two different
flare stations, with the South Flare Station consisting of five waste gas flares and the North Flare
Station consisting of seven waste gas flares. Waste heat from the gas turbine exhaust is used to produce
steam, through the use of heat recovery steam generators, and directed to a steam turbine for power
production and digester heating steam. At present, this steam generation systeln is out of service due to
replacement of the steam turbine, wl~ichis expected to be completed in the sulnlner of 201 1. Until that
time, the gas turbines are operated in simple cycle, meaning without waste heat recovery. Currently,
digester heating steal11 is provided by ~neallso f four digester gas-fired boilers, along with an additional
nat~~rgaals -fired boiler available for emergencies. These boilers both supplement and serve as a bacltup
to the waste heat steam generators.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
After cl~lorination,t he secondary treated effluent travels about 6 iniles through tunnels to the outfall
lnanifold and tllen is discl~argedt o the Pacific Ocean, at White

===PLANNED CHANGES===

