[Page 125]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County owns and operates the Joint Water Pollution
Control Plant, located at 24501 South Figueroa Street in Carson, California. This Order establishes
discharge prohibitions, limitations, and conditions to regulate the discharge from JWPCP to the Pacific
Ocean; the discharge was currently regulated by Order No. 97-090 (NPDES Permit No. CA0053813)
that expired on May 10, 2002 and administratively extended until the adoption of this Order.
On June 8, 1994, a Consent Decree [No. 92 0061 RG (JRx)] was entered in federal court records
between the Districts and the USEPA Region 9 and the Regional Water Board. The Consent Decree
primarily requires the Districts to construct additional secondary treatment facilities and achieve
compliance with full secondary treatment at JWPCP by December 31, 2002. The completion of full
secondary treatment facilities was achieved prior to the deadline of December 31, 2002. Since January of
2003 JWPCP has operated as a full secondary plant and has continuously maintained compliance with
secondary treatment requirements.
JWPCP is part of a Joint Outfall System with six upstream water reclamation plants - La Cañada, Whittier
Narrows, San Jose Creek, Pomona, Los Coyotes and Long Beach. It treats municipal and industrial
wastewater. The flow from the six upstream plants can be bypassed, to a limited extent, to JWPCP. The
sludge generated from the upstream plants are returned to the joint outfall trunk sewers and conveyed to
JWPCP for further treatment. There are approximately five million people in the Joint Outfall System
service area.
The treatment system at JWPCP consists of screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, pure
oxygen activated sludge reactors, secondary clarification, and chlorination. Effluent from the primary
sedimentation tanks is biologically treated in pure oxygen activated sludge reactors. The secondary
treated effluent is then clarified, chlorinated and pumped into the outfall manifold. JWPCP has a dry
weather average design treatment capacity of 400 million gallons per day (mgd) and a peak design
capacity of 540 mgd. For the period from January 2003 (JWPCP in full secondary treatment mode) to
August 2005, effluent discharge flow from JWPCP has averaged 322 mgd with a maximum daily flow
of 492 mgd on February 21, 2005.
Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment processes include grit, primary screenings, primary
sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge, digested sludge screenings and digester cleaning
solids. The fine solids (grit, primary screenings, digested sludge screenings, digester cleaning solids)
which are primarily inorganic materials are hauled away to a landfill. The remaining solid fractions
(primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge) are anaerobically digested onsite. The
digested solids are screened, and dewatered using scroll centrifuges. The dewatered cake contains
approximately 25% solids (Class B biosolids). JWPCP generates approximately 11,000 wet tons of Class
B biosolids per week. More than half of the biosolids are managed by composting operations in Riverside
and Kern County. One quarter of the biosolids are sent to southwestern Arizon for air drying and direct
land application. The remaining biosolids are lime stabilized for Class A land application in Kern County,
incinerated in a cement kiln in San Bernardino County, and co-disposed with municipal solid waste in Los
Angeles County.
Digester gas (containing approximately 65% methane), produced from anaerobic digestion of sludge, is
used onsite to fuel a combined cycle power plant (gas turbines followed by boilers and a steam turbine)
Attachment F – Fact Sheet February 2, 2006, Revised April 6, 2006 F-4
[Page 126]
COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICTS OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY ORDER NO. R4-2006-0042
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
which generates 22 MW of electricity for plant equipment and steam for digester heating. The power plant
allows JWPCP to be essentially self-sufficient with respect to its energy requirements and even produces
surplus electricity for export to Southern California Edison Co. sufficient to power approximately 1,500
homes.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
After chlorination, the secondary treated effluent travels about 6 miles through tunnels to the outfall
manifold and then is discharged to the Pacific Ocean, at Whites Point off the Palos Verdes Peninsula.
JWPCP has fifteen discharge points (Discharge Serial Nos. 001 through 015). Four outfalls (Discharge
Serial Nos. 001 through 004) are located at Whites Point, off the Palos Verdes Peninsula. Discharge
Serial Nos.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

