[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
March 28, 2016.
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) and associated
wastewater disposal facility that serve a population of approximately 17,620 within Crescent City and
the surrounding County Service Area (CSA). The CSA has two sub-areas: the Northwest area to the
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
north of the City and the Bertsch Ocean View area to the east of the City.
The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater and has an average dry
weather design treatment capacity of 1.86 mgd and a peak wet weather flow capacity of
6.12 mgd. The Permittee has one significant industrial user (Rumiano Cheese Company) that is
covered under a pretreatment permit to discharge to the Facility.
The Permittee and CSA each maintain a separate sanitary sewer collection system within the
service area. Flows generated within the CSA are collected and conveyed in the CSA’s satellite
collection system to the limits of the Permittee’s system. The Permittee’s system then conveys
combined City and County-generated flows to the Facility, which is owned and maintained by the
Permittee.
The headworks includes a mechanically cleaned screen, a flow-measuring Parshall flume, and a
wet well in which five pumps are available to lift the flow to the primary clarifiers. Primary
treatment consists of two grit removal tanks followed by two rectangular primary clarifiers.
Secondary treatment is provided by operating the rotating biological contactors (RBC) and
membrane bioreactor (MBR) in parallel. The RBC system consists of three trains of four-stage,
RBCs with a combined surface area of 1.2 million square feet. Flow from the RBCs reach three
rectangular secondary clarifiers. Flows from the clarifiers and any flow from the MBR unit that is
not used for recycled water use are commingled and disinfected using sodium hypochlorite and
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
Order No. R1-2017-0002
City of Crescent City
NPDES No. CA0022756
dechlorinated using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to the Pacific Ocean at Discharge
Point 001.
The Permittee has the capability of producing tertiary-2.2 recycled water utilizing flow from the
MBR and an ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection system that was installed in 2010. The Permittee
does not currently have any recycled water use sites, but may produce recycled water in the
future if recycled water use sites are identified. The capacity of the recycled water system is
1.2 mgd; however, the MBR can treat up to 1.6 mgd.
Solids handling consists of gravity thickening primary sludge, rotary drum thickening of
secondary sludge, and anaerobic digestion of thickened solids. Both digesters are heated and
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
mixed. Digested solids are dewatered using a belt filter press and hauled to a landfill.
°
°
Treated wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 at 41 44’ 38” N latitude and
124 12’ 10” W longitude to the Pacific Ocean. The outfall consists of a 24-inch ductile iron pipe
that has an effluent conveyance capacity of 11 mgd to 13 mgd, depending on tide conditions. The
outfall structure is sloped downward and discharges into a rocky slot in the surf zone adjacent to
Battery Point Lighthouse.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Treated wastewater may also be discharged to the recycled water system at Di

[Page 77]
2.
During the term of Order No. R1-2011-0019, the Permittee had 10 effluent limitation
violations; 4 total chlorine residual, 3 settleable solids, and 3 fecal coliform violations.
The chlorine residual violations all occurred in September 2015, and the Permittee reported
the cause of these violations as follows: “The Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) portion of the
effluent produces a fully nitrified effluent and the Rotating Biological Contactor’s (RBC’s)
effluent does not. The RBC effluent plays a critical role in our disinfection process as it
contains some ammonium, which is required for the production of chloramines during
disinfection. As a result of the recent drought, flows have been at historic lows to the plant
resulting in periods during the night that insufficient flow is produced from the RBC’s to
produce chloramines. This challenge has resulted in the need to make numerous chlorine
and bisulfite adjustments which has resulted in more equipment related issues, including
air-locked pumps. These issues are the key contributors in the recent high chlorine residual
events. We are evaluating long term solutions to address the disinfection challenge
associated with periods when ammonia is not present in our effluent and chloramines are
not being produced.”
The Permittee has further stated that MBR system is capable of removing all settleable
solids and that the settleable solids violations are likely due to poor sample collection
technique. The Permittee has stated that fecal coliform violations have been addressed
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
through improved operation of the chlorination system.
The Permittee may commence discharges of recycled water if any recycled water use sites are
identified during the term of this Order. The Permittee would be required to enroll under State
Water Resources Control Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW or submit an application for
modification of this NPDES permit to address the specific recycled water uses. In addition, the
Permittee would need to complete testing of its UV disinfection system to demonstrate that it
meets recycled water requirements in section 60301.230 of title 22 of the CCR.
The Permittee is contemplating whether to construct a septage receiving station at the Facility to
satisfy the need for local septage disposal. As described in discussions with Regional Water Board
staff, septage would be collected and monitored at a septage receiving facility and pumped to the
anaerobic digesters for co-treatment with the plant solids or added to the digested solids prior to
ultimate disposal at a permitted land disposal site. This Order allows the Permittee to accept
septage contingent upon submission and Executive Officer approval of a Septage Management
Plan.
No other modifications or operational changes that will cause a material change in the volume or
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLIC