[Page 61]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
complete on February 29, 2016.
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and associated
wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population of approximately 750 people. The
Facility was designed to serve 650 residential customers, and commercial and institutional users
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
equivalent to an additional 550 people.
The Facility is located approximately 35 miles northeast of Willits, California in northeastern
Mendocino County. The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.057 mgd,
average wet weather flow of 0.097 mgd, peak wet weather flow of 0.394 mgd, and average annual
flow of 0.077 mgd. The treatment system consists of a headworks, two oxidation ponds, a
treatment wetland, and ozone disinfection system.
Influent is received from the gravity flow collection system at the influent well and pumped to the
headworks, which includes a horizontal grit channel and a spiral trash screen. A septage
receiving station was installed as part of an upgrade project completed in 2011 that includes a
rock trap, grinder, and mixing tank. However, the septage receiving station is not used. The
Permittee currently accepts septage at an alternative septage receiving station that allows for
septage to be discharged to the grit channel.
The Facility’s two oxidation ponds are lined with high density polyethylene (HDPE) liner system.
The two oxidation ponds are operated in series and are used to reduce biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS).
The treatment wetland is lined with an HDPE liner system. The treatment wetland is divided into
two cells, which are planted with alternating submerged and emergent vegetation. The wetland
treatment cells are operated to further remove BOD and TSS, and provide for biological reduction
of nitrogen compounds. Effluent from the treatment wetland is screened prior to entering the
ozone treatment system.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 62]
Order No. R1-2017-0004
Covelo Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0023574
The ozone disinfection system consists of two ozone generators, an injection system, an ozone
destruction unit, and a multi-cell contact chamber. The Permittee has the ability to provide tablet
chlorination as a back-up disinfection system for surface water discharges. When chlorination is
necessary for surface water discharges at Discharge Point 001, calcium hypochlorite tablets will
be added at Wet Well No. 1 and sodium sulfite tablets will be added at Wet Well No. 2 for
dechlorination. When chlorination is necessary for land discharges at Discharge Point 002,
sodium hypochlorite tablets will be added in the discharge pipe.
During dry weather, the Permittee recirculates water through the treatment system to maintain
an adequate water level in the treatment wetland. During the wet weather months, the Permittee
discharges treated wastewater to a 5 million gallon percolation pond at Discharge Point 002. As
necessary, when influent flows exceed the treatment and storage capacity of the Facility, the
Discharger may discharge treated wastewater to Grist Creek below the confluence with Town
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Creek at Discharge Point 001.
1.
The Covelo Community Services District is located within the Round Valley Hydrologic
Subarea of Middle Fork Eel Ri

===PLANNED CHANGES===

