[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
application was deemed complete on September 27, 2016.
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and associated
wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population of 3,100 residential users in the
Community of Rio Dell. The Facility discharges waste from Discharge Point 001 to the Lower Eel River,
just downstream of Highway 101 Bridge. From May 15 through September 30, the Facility discharges
treated wastewater to an irrigation site located northwest of the City and west of the southbound
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Highway 101 Bridge, via Discharge Point 003. The use of the irrigation site commenced in 2014.
The Facility is located in the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel River Hydrologic
Area. The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.40 mgd, an average
monthly wet-weather flow of 1.25 mgd, and a peak wet weather flow of 2.51mgd.
The collection system includes two lift stations with dual pump systems and generators at each.
The lift stations convey the wastewater to the headworks building via a North and South
mainline. The raw sewage flows through a ¼-inch opening automatic bar screen and grit removal
system that discharges into the influent pump station wet well. A manual bar screen is also
available as a backup.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 67]
Order No. R1-2017-0007
City of Rio Dell
NPDES No. CA0022748
The treatment system consists of a headworks, Aero-Mod secondary treatment and solids
stabilization system, chlorine disinfection in two chlorine contact tanks, and dechlorination using
sodium bisulfite.
Solids removed from the wastewater are stored and thickened in two aerated digesters and
subsequently dewatered with a belt filter press. The dewatered biosolids process through an
indirect sludge dryer, which produces Class A biosolids that the Permittee gives away to
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
residents as a soil amendment.
1.
The Facility is located within the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel River
Hydrologic Area. The main tributaries of to the Lower Eel River are the Van Duzen River,
Yager Creek, Larabee Creek, Bull Creek, and Salmon Creek. The upper watershed is
m

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
being evaluated by Regional Water Board Enforcement staff.
The Permittee plans to modify the Aeromod system to improve the air delivery and monitoring
system to ensure that the aeration basins always have the optimal amount of oxygen for
biological treatment and nutrient removal.
The Permittee plans to increase the size of the collection system pipe in this problematic area of
the collection system and to conduct a sewer system evaluation survey to identify sources of
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
infiltration and inflow.
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described in
A. Legal Authorities
this sectio