[Page 63]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
complete on .
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and associated
wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population of 1,340 residential, commercial,
and institutional users in the Community of Redway. There are no industrial users within the service
area. The Facility accepts wastewater from two institutional users located outside of the service area:
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
the Eel River Conservation Camp and a YMCA Camp.
The Facility is located in the Benbow subarea of the South Fork Eel River Hydrologic Area. The
Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.186 mgd, and a peak wet weather
flow of 0.580 mgd.
All wastewater generated within the Permittee’s service area is conveyed to the Dogwood lift
station prior to conveyance to the Facility. Grit is periodically removed from the lift station wet
well. The Dogwood lift station pumps raw wastewater into an 8-inch pressure main down
Dogwood Lane, under the South Fork Eel River, and cross-country to the Facility, where it enters
the plant distribution box upstream of the oxidation ditch. Raw wastewater from the Eel River
Conservation Camp and the YMCA Camp enter the plant distribution box from separate pipelines.
The Facility has historically received septage at a septage receiving station located at the Facility;
however, the Permittee no longer accepts septage and does not anticipate accepting septage in
the future. Therefore, this Order does not authorize acceptance of septage at the Facility.
The treatment system consists of a 300,000-gallon oxidation ditch, secondary clarifier, chlorine
disinfection using calcium hypochlorite tablets, and dechlorination using sodium sulfite. The
Facility discharges treated wastewater to three percolation ponds at Discharge Point 002. The
percolation ponds are located in an upland area on property adjacent to the Facility across a deep
r avine. Treated wastewater is conveyed to the percolation ponds via a suspended transmission
line.
Solids removed from the secondary clarifier are dewatered in four sludge drying beds before
being hauled and disposed of in a wooded area owned by the Permittee north of the Facility.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 64]
Order No. R1-2017-0006
Redway Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0022781
Decant water from the sludge drying beds is returned to the inlet structure prior to the oxidation
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
ditch.
1.
The Facility is located within the Benbow Hydrologic Subarea of the South Fork Eel River
2.
Hydrologic Area within the Eel River Hydrologic Unit.
During October 1 through May 14, effluent may be discharged to the South Fork Eel River
at Discharge Point 001 at 40° 07’ 46” N latitude and 123° 49’ 17” W longitude. The South
3.
Fork Eel River is a water of the United States.
The Permittee discharges treated wastewater to the percolation ponds year-round at
Discharge Point 002 at 40° 07’ 46” N latitude and 123° 49’ 32” W longitude. The
percolation ponds are located in an upland area away from the river channel and
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
floodplain.
Effluent limitations contained in Order No. R1-2011-0046 for discharges from Discharge
Point 001 (Monitoring Location EFF-001) and representative monitoring data from the term of
TableO rFd-2er. HNios.t Ro1ri-c2 0E1ff1lu-0e0n4t6 L aimrei taast fioolnl

===PLANNED CHANGES===

