[Page 2]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter Regional
WA. atBear sBiso aarndd), Rfiantdiso:n ale for Requirements.
The Regional Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information provided by The Sea Ranch
Association, discharge monitoring data, and other available information.
B. ABtatcakchgrmoeunntsd Aa nadnd F Bac airliet yh eDreesbcyr iinpctoiornpo. rated into this Order.
The community of The Sea Ranch is a
3,853-acre development that consists primarily of second homes located along the
northern Sonoma County Coast. The total population of the development varies
from a low of approximately 1,318 full-time residents to a high of 4,403 seasonal
occupants. A maximum number of 2,929 lots are allowed for development as per the
Sea Ranch Precise Development Plan. Lots within the development are served by
either a publicly owned and operated wastewater treatment plant or an onsite
wastewater treatmen t system (OWTS). A total of 1,558 lots in the development
were designated as being approved for development with the use of an individual or
neighborhood OWTS.
On October 7, 1986, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors adopted Resolution
No. 86-2108 which describes its intent to establish an On-site Wastewater
Management Zone pursuant to Health and Safety Code Sections 6950, et seq. which
will be managed by the County of Sonoma, Service Area No.6, Sea Ranch, Zone 2.
This Order regulates discharges from the OWTS located within the boundaries of the
Zone (see Attachment A: Facility Map which depicts Zone boundaries). The types of
OWTS operating in the zone include conventional septic tank leachfield systems
[Page 3]
Sea Ranch Management Zone - 4 –
Order No. R1-2017-0014
W DID 1B89051RSON
serving individual lots and neighborhood systems serving multiple lots.
Neighborhood OWTS are made up of multiple septic tanks connected to a shared
leachfield located in a common area of the development. Sonoma
County Ordinance No. 3904, Regulating the Use of Wastewater Disposal Systems in The
OSena A Ruagnucsht W16a,s 1te9w88a,t ethr eD Sisopnoosaml aZ oCnoeu natnyd B Sooanrodm oaf CSouupnetryv iOsordrisn aadnocpe tNedo. 3905,
Establishing a Fee Schedule for On-Site Wastewater Management Services for The Sea
Ranch Wastewater Disposal Zone,
(hereinafte

[Page 4]
Agreement. There are currently 1,201 individual and neighborhood OWTS serving
the developed residential lots located within the boundaries of the Zone. Of this
number, about 80 percent or 943 are conventional OWTS that consist of a septic
tank followed by effluent dispersal to an individual or shared leachfield. The
remaining 20 percent or 258 are non-conventional OWTS such as shallow trench
pressure distributed systems, mound systems, at-grade systems, and aerobic
treatment and filter pretreatment units. The design of the non-conventional OWTS
was approved by Sonoma County under its Non-standard Sewage Disposal System
Policy. The Zone currently consists of 1,539 total possible OWTS, barring future lot
consolidations or lot splits. Undeveloped residential lots located within the Zone
will be served by OWTS that are currently under construction or are planned for
future construction. All OWTS serving residential lots located within the Zone,
including existing and proposed, are subject to the requirements in this Order.
There are currently 19 commerc

===PLANNED CHANGES===

