[Page 1]
Facility
The Caltrans Collier Rest Area (Facility) is owned and operated by Caltrans and is located
directly off Highway 199, northeast of Gasquet in Del Norte County. The Facility is not
located in an area served by a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic
wastewater is collected and treated on-site. The site location is shown on Attachment A,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The Facility serves as the only state-operated safety roadside rest area along Highway 199
between Crescent City California and Grants Pass Oregon. It consists of one comfort station
building which has 5 toilets, 2 urinals and 6 sinks. Drinking water for the Facility comes
from Johnny Walker Creek, Griffin Creek and one groundwater supply well. The Facility
was not previously regulated under permit by the Regional Water Board.
The Facility’s wastewater originating from the comfort station restroom will be treated and
disposed of via the wastewater treatment system. The wastewater system will consist of
collection system piping, grinder lift station, urine diversion tank, septic tank, upflow solids
contact tanks, anaerobic media tanks, equalization tank and a subsurface pressure dosed
drip disposal field.
Discharge Description
The domestic wastewater treatment system is designed for treatment of a mean daily flow
of 1,900 gallons per day (gpd). As described in the ROWD, the projected untreated and
treated domestic wastewater quality from the Facility is consistent with the
characterization of wastewater in the General Order.
The plan layout

[Page 1]
Primary domestic waste treatment and collection will be provided using a gravity
collection system, urine diversion tank and septic tank, as described below.
Wastewater from the comfort station flows to the lift station. The urinal wastewater drains
to urinal storage tank where it is stored before draining back to the treatment process. The
urine diversion tank will be connected to the solids process tank and pumped through the
treatment process when flows and environmental conditions are favorable for increased
nitrogen reduction. Grinder pumps in the lift station discharge the wastewater into a
[Page 2]
Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 3 - June 18, 2018
6,000-gallon septic tank with an effluent filter. The septic tank is designed to provide for
sSoecliodnsd raermy oWvaals tperwioart etor Terffelautemnte netn Steyrsitnegm t he secondary wastewater system.
A secondary wastewater treatment system will be installed to reduce the organic strength
and solids content of the domestic wastewater to levels that are protective of groundwater
quality prior to disposal to the subsurface pressure dosed disposal field. The treatment
system consists of upflow solids contact tanks, anaerobic media tanks, equalization tank,
and piping, pumps, and controls. The treatment system can be operated locally at the
facility as well as remotely using a cloud based Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system. In case of power failures, a stand-by generator will be installed to provide
eWleacsttreiwciatyte dru Driisncgh ealregcet rSiycsatle pmo wer outages.
Following secondary level treatment, effluent will b

===PLANNED CHANGES===

