[Page 1]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter
AR. egBiaosniasl aWnadt eRra Btiooanradl)e, ffionrd sR:e quirements.
The Regional Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Discharger’s previous application for permit renewal, monitoring data submitted
B. dBuarciknggr tohuen tedr amn odf F tahcei Dlitisyc Dhaersgcerri’ps tpiorenvious Order, and other available information.
. The Garberville Sanitary District
(hereinafter Discharger) is currently discharging pursuant to Waste Discharge
Requirements Order No. R1-2011-0096. The renewal of these waste discharge
requirements is for the discharge up to 0.162 mgd ADWF and 0.600 mgd PWWF of
treated wastewater from the Garberville Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF),
hereinafter Facility.
The Facility consists of three oxidation ponds, four constructed wetland treatment
cells, a sodium hypochlorite injection system, chlorine contact pipe lines, two
percolation ponds and an operation and maintenance building. Wastewater
treatment at the Facility is achieved through settling, absorption, aerobic and
anaerobic bacterial actions, disinfection and other biogeochemical processes.
Wastewater is pumped west from the collection system headworks station, across
the South Fork of the Eel River, via the Bear Canyon Road Bridge. Wastewater
enters the Facility at the north end of oxidation Pond 1. The three oxidation ponds
and four wetland treatment cells are operated in series with wastewater flowing by
gravity from Pond 1 through to Wetland Cell 4. Effluent from Wetland Cell 4 gravity
flows to a concrete vault for disinfection. As effluent passes through the vault it is
dosed with sodium hypochlorite. The dosed effluent passes through two 140-linear
foot 24-inch pipes, allowing additional contact time. The disinfected effluent is
discharged to the percolation ponds, at Discharge Point 001, year-round.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the WWTF. Attachment B provides
C. aL eflgoawl Ascuhtehmoraittiice osf. the WWTF.
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
D. B(Wasaitne rP Claond.e).
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are craf

===PLANNED CHANGES===

