[Page 79]
2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
from septage, chemical toilets, or other bulk waste sources.
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 3.01 mgd and a peak wet
weather flow of 24.5 mgd of secondary treated wastewater, as well as a peak wet weather
flow of 7.0 mgd of advanced treated wastewater. The Facility’s treatment train consists of an
influent wet well, bar screens, aerated grit removal, primary clarifiers, trickling filters,
aerated solids contact tank, secondary clarifiers, and a chlorine contactor pipe where
secondary disinfection is performed using sodium hypochlorite. This disinfected secondary
effluent is discharged to three percolation ponds year-round. During the period from
October 1 through May 14, treatment continues with the addition of a ferric chloride
polymer as the wastewater is sent to multi-media filters, a tertiary chlorine contact basin
where disinfection is performed using sodium hypochlorite, and a dechlorination facility
where dechlorination is performed using sodium bisulfite. The resulting disinfected,
3. Biosolids Management
dechlorinated advanced treated wastewater effluent is discharged to the Russian River.
Biosolids generated during the treatment process are reduced through thickening in
dissolved air flotation units followed by stabilization using anaerobic digesters
(mesothermic). Digested sludge is dewatered using a belt-filter press. If the press is out of
service, digested sludge is stored in a lagoon, then dredged to a solar drying bed in the dry
season. Dried solids are hauled to a landfill for disposal as alternative daily cover.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 80]
Order No. R1-2018-0035
City of Ukiah
NPDES No. CA0022888
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1.
The Facility is located within the Ukiah Hydrologic Subarea within the Upper Russian River
2.
Hydrologic Unit.
During the wet weather season (October 1 – May 14), effluent treated in accordance with
permit requirement

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
entire $33,000 penalty will be suspended.
The Permittee is constructing a recycled water system that will be completed during the term of
this Order to provide recycled water for landscape irrigation, agricultural irrigation, and frost
protection. The Permittee has received funding for the construction of Phases 1 through 3 of the
recycled water system that began in Spring 2018 and is expected to be completed by Spring
2019. The Phase 1 to 3 projects include construction of new tertiary chlorine contact basins to
increase the chlorination capacity; the installation of a recycled water fill station; the
construction of a recycled water storage pond, pump station and transmission system; and a
connection to 28 metered customers. The Permittee anticipates the implementation of Phases 1
through 3 of the recycled water system will reduce discharge to the Russian River by 60%. The
Permittee also plans to seek additional funding for Phase 4 of its recycled water system, which is
estimated to reduce discharge to the Russian River an additional 20%