[Page 72]
1. Collection System.
weekly wet weather flow of 0.576 mgd.
The Forestville collection system is comprised of two interconnected
areas: Forestville Central and Mirabel Heights. The Forestville Central porti on of the
collection system is entirely gravity flow and consists of 6.5 miles of 6- and 8-inch pipe that
was slip-lined with plastic lining between the late 1970’s and early 1980’s.
The Mirabel Heights portion consists of predominantly 6-inch PVC pipe with a small
percentage of 8” PVC pipe and is serviced by two lift stations. Terminal Lift Station is located
at the intersection of River and Mirabel Roads and has two submersible pumps, one 5
horsepower (HP) and one 10HP. The lift station pumps wastewater through a 4-inch force
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 73]
Order No. R1-2018-0002
Forestville Water District
NPDES No. CA0023043
main that extends 1533 feet to where it daylights at a manhole located on Trenton Road, then
flows by gravity to the second lift station known as Intermediate Lift Station. Terminal Lift
Station services most of Mirabel Heights’ gravity sewer collection system. In addition,
Steelhead Beach County Park maintains its own lift station that pumps wastewater to the
gravity portion of the River Road 8-inch gravity main. Intermediate Lift Station is located on
Trenton Road near the terminus of Covey Road and receives wastewater from Terminal Lift
Station and a small portion of the gravity sewer system. Intermediate Lift Station has two
23HP high speed/high head pumps and pumps wastewater th rough 6,099 feet of 6-inch DI
force main under Covey Road to the gravity sewer main at Van Keppel Road. Wastewater is
2. Wastewater Treatment.
pumped vertically approximately 220 feet at its highest point.
The treatment system consists of a headworks, an aeration pond
(also known as the South Pond), a settling pond (also known as the North Pond),
microfiltration, chlorine disinfection with sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination with
sodium bisulfite. Treated wastewater is discharged to an approximately 3.25 million gallon
effluent storage pond used for storage of advanced treated wastewater prior to discharge to
Jones Creek or the recycled water system.
The headworks includes a rotary hydroscreen system, a screenings washer, and a metering
flume. Influent flows from a 12-inch pipeline to the rotary hydroscreen system. After solids
removal, influent flows through a 3-inch Parshall flume for flow measurement. The cleaned
and dewatered solids are disposed of at a landfill.
Wastewater from the headworks flows by gravity to the east end of the aeration pond. The
pond has a volumetric capacity of 2.93 million gallons, and is divided into three baffled cells
to reduce short-circuiting. The first cell contains two 7.5-horsepower aerators that run
continuously, the second cell contains one 5-horsepower aerator that also runs continuously,
and the third cell contains a 3-horsepower aerator, set on a timer, to create aerobic and
anoxic conditions within the pond. Based on the average dry weather treatment capacity, the
theoretical detention time in the pond is 24.8 days. Wastewater flows from cell to cell and
exists from the westernmost cell into the settling pond.
The settling pond (also known as the North Pond) is used for storage during high flows and
for filter backwashes. The settling pond has a total volume of 0.75 million gallons.
Wastewater from the settling pond is recirculated to the aeration pond as necessary.
Wastewater from the aeration pond is pumped to the filtration system. To maintain
cleanliness in the filters, the secondary effluent is pre-chlorinated using sodium hypochlorite
prior to filtration. Tertiary treatment is achieved in the microfiltration system. The
microfiltration system consists of two treatment trains each with a holding tank, strainer, and
three banks of 12 microza microfiltration modules (water flows from the outside-in). The
microfiltration building has been designed to accommodate a third treatment train if
necessary. The microfiltration system is operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s
operations manual and State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of
Drinking Water (DDW) requirements. Where the manufacturer’s recommendations are less
stringent than DDW requirements, DDW requirements take precedence.
From the microfiltration system, filtered wastewater flows to the chlorine contact tank by
gravity through an 8-inch pipeline. A chlorine gas system was replaced with a sodium
hypochlorite system in May 2014. Sodium hypochlorite is injected into the 8-inch influent
line prior to entering the chlorine contact tank using an injection quill assembly. Sodium
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 74]
Order No. R1-2018-0002
Forestville Water District
NPDES No. CA0023043
hypochlorite is stored in a 540-gallon tank and is conveyed to the injection point through a 1-
inch line by a pair of peristaltic pumps. Two peristaltic pumps are utilized each with a rated
application rate of 100 gallons per day. The dosing of sodium hypochlorite is a set rate and is
not flow- or demand-paced. The chemical pump rate is manually adjusted based on the
chlorine residual or the filter process flow rate.
Chlorinated effluent then flows into one of two baffled concrete chambers. A chlorine contact
tank tracer study conducted in August 2005 demonstrated that the contact time is 105
minutes at the peak weekly treatment plant design flow of 0.576 mgd, and that a final
chlorine residual of 4.3 mg/L is needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L at peak
weekly design flow. The study also demonstrated that when the filter flow exceeds 0.576
mgd, up to the peak wet weather daily design flow of 0.780 mgd, a final chlorine residual of
5.3 mg/L is needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L. After flowing through the
chlorine contact tank, before discharge to the effluent storage pond, the chlorinated effluent
is dechlorinated using sodium bisulfite.
After treatment, the advanced treated effluent is discharged to an on-site effluent storage
pond prior to discharge to the land disposal system or the surface water discharge system.
The maximum capacity of the existing on-site storage pond is 3.25 million gallons. Additional
on-site storage capacity may also be available within the treatment ponds during low flow
periods. The storage ponds allow the amount of discharge to be controlled to protect
beneficial uses of the receiving water and provide a source of recycled water during the
3. Biosolids Management.
discharge prohibition period, as further described in section II.B, below.
Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in the
aeration and settling ponds, where they undergo anaerobic digestion and densification. Over
time, the volume of settled solids increases, reducing the retention time of flow through the
pond. Facility design recommendations are that the settling pond provide a minimum of 12
hours detention time at the peak week wet weather flow, at maximum allowable water depth.
Accordingly, 0.46 million gallons of settling pond capacity is available for solids accumulation.
This volume is equivalent to a depth of 6.5 feet. Solids were removed from both the North and
South ponds in 2012, for the first time since construction of the tertiary facilities in 2001.
During the 2012 biosolids removal event, approximately 99 dry tons of solids were removed
from the ponds and land-applied by Synagro Technologies, Inc. At present, samples show that
neither pond contains a substantial quantity of biosolids. The Permittee does not anticipate
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
needing to remove biosolids within the term of this permit.
1.
The Facility is located within the Guerneville Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Russian River
2.
Hydrologic Area, within the Russian River Hydrologic Unit.
Year-round, the Permittee discharges advanced treated wastewater, at Discharge Point 001,
to a 3.25 million gallon effluent storage pond prior to discharge to the recycled water
3.
system or the surface water discharge system.
During the wet weather season (October 1 through May 14), effluent treated in accordance
with permit requirements in section IV.A of the Order, may be discharged from the on-site
effluent storage pond via a one quarter mile outfall pipe to Jones Creek at Discharge Point
002. Jones Creek is a water of the United States and tributary to the Russian River via Green
Valley Creek at 38° 27’ 58” N latitude and 122° 53’ 18” W longitude.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 75]
Order No. R1-2018-0002
Forestville Water District
NPDES No. CA0023043
4.
During the dry weather season (May 15 through Septemb

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
upon completion of the collection system evaluation.
The Permittee is planning to optimize use of the high flow storage pond by instituting seasonal
changes in the flow regimes and use of aeration and settling functions. As funding becomes
available, the Permittee is planning to upgrade the supervisory control and data acquisition
(SCADA) system to allow for remote monitoring access and operation, and to institute flow
pacing for the chlorination and dechlorination system to address elevated sodium and total
dissolved solid (TDS) levels. The Permittee is also considering projects to reduce inflow and
infiltration and decrease the peaking factor, and to increase high flow storage (flow equalization)
capacity.
The Permittee may also consider developing a Joint Use Program with the Graton CSD. The goals
of such a program are to enable the Permittee and Graton CSD to transfer tertiary 2.2 effluent
between each wastewater treatment facility, in order to optimize use of both Facilities’ recycled
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
water storage and distribution systems and discharge