[Page 65]
Permittee herein.
The Permittee is authorized to discharge subject to waste discharge requirements (WDRs) in this
Order at the discharge locations described in Table 2 on the cover page of this Order. The Code of
Federal Regulations at 40 C.F.R. section 122.46 limits the duration of National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits to be effective for a fixed term not to exceed five
years. Accordingly, Table 3 of this Order limits the effective period for the discharge authorized
by this Order. Pursuant to California Code of Regulations (CCR), title 23, section 2235.4, the terms
and conditions of an expired permit are automatically continued pending issuance of a new
permit if all requirements of the federal NPDES regulations on continuation of expired permits
B.
are complied with.
The Facility discharges secondary treated wastewater to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United
States. The Permittee was previously regulated by Order No. R1-2015-0024 and NPDES Permit
No. CA0023078 adopted on June 18, 2015 with an expiration date of August 31, 2020. Order R1-
2015-0024 is being rescinded early with the adoption of this new Order. Attachment B provides a
map of the area around the Facility. Attachment C provides flow schematics of the old and
upgraded Facility in Figures C-1 and C-2 and a plan view of the upgraded Facility in Figure C-3. A
site visit was conducted on June 25, 2018 to observe operations and collect additional data to
C.
develop permit limitations and requirements for waste discharge.
The Permittee filed a report of waste discharge (ROWD) and submitted an application for
reissuance of its WDRs and NPDES permit on October 11, 2018. The ROWD was deemed
incomplete and additional information was requested on October 30, 2018. The PeJarnmuitatreye 28,
2re0s1u9bmitted its ROWD on December 12, 2018. Supplemental information was submitted by the
Permittee on January 16 and 28, 2019. The application was deemed complete on
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
.
The Permittee owns and operates the Facility, a municipal wastewater facility that serves a population
of approximately 7,273 within the City of Fort Bragg and surrounding unincorporated areas. The
Facility receives wastewater from Mackerricher State Park and leachate from the County of
Mendocino Caspar Landfill. The Facility is located on 281 Jere Melo Street in Fort Bragg, Mendocino
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
County, California.
1. Collection System
The collection system is made up of approximately 27 miles of clay and concrete main lines,
ranging in size from 6 inches to 30 inches in diameter. Most of the system is approximately
50 to 60 years old and is in need of rehabilitation. The Permittee’s Capital Improvement Plan
includes $120,000 for Cure-In-Place Pipe projects every other year to reduce inflow and
infiltration (I&I) and to conduct a closed-circuit television (CCTV) project. The collection
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 66]
Order No. R1-2019-0020
Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District No. 1
NPDES No. CA0023078
system includes six sewer lift stations. The Permittee has rehabilitated three of the lift
stations and plans to upgrade the other three lift stations in 2019. Collection system
rehabilitation and repair to date has resulted in a decrease in the number and magnitude of
sanitary sewer overflows. It is premature to determine if collection system work to date has
2. Current Wastewater Treatment Facility
resulted in decreased infiltration and inflow.
The current wastewater treatment Facility has an average dry weather design treatment
capacity of 1.0 mgd and an average monthly wet weather treatment capacity of 2.2 mgd. The
treatment system consists of a Parshall Flume for influent flow monitoring, rag screening,
grit removal, primary clarification, two-stage trickling filters, secondary clarification,
chlorination using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. Effluent
is discharged through a diffuser at Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean.
Sludge from the primary clarifier is pumped to a gravity thickener and then to two
anaerobic digesters. Skimmings from the primary clarifier are sent to an unlined grease
lagoon for drying and storage, and then are taken to a municipal solid waste landfill for final
disposal. Sludge from the secondary clarifier is pumped back to the primary clarifier and
then the commingled sludge is pumped to the sludge thickener before being conveyed to the
primary digester. The digested primary and secondary settled sludge is dewatered to a
minimum of 15 percent solids in a gravity belt press. Additional sludge drying takes place in
sludge drying beds prior to landfill disposal or land application. The sludge drying beds have
3. Upgraded Wastewater Treatment Facility
been demolished to make room for construction of the Aero-Mod facility.
The Permittee is currently constructing upgrades to the Facility. Construction of the upgrade
project is expected to be completed in September 2019 and the upgraded wastewater
treatment facility is expected to be operational by October 2019.
The upgraded treatment system has been designed with an average dry weather design
treatment capacity of 0.8 mgd and an average daily wet weather treatment capacity of 4.9
mgd. The upgraded treatment system consists of a Parshall flume for influent flow
monitoring prior to the headworks, headworks, grit removal, equalized influent flow
monitoring following the Influent Pump Station, Aero-Mod system, chlorine disinfection
using sodium hypochlorite, and sodium bisulfite dichlorination. The Aero-Mod system is an
extended aeration, activated sludge treatment system that includes a selector tank, two first-
stage aeration (nitrification) tanks, two second-stage aeration (denitrification) tanks, and
two clarification tanks. The existing clarifiers will be repurposed and used as flow
equalization basins during large storm events and to allow maintenance of the influent
pump station when needed.
Sludge generated from the Aero-Mod system will be treated in aerobic digestion tanks and
dewatered through a belt filter press. Dewatered sludge from the belt filter press will be
placed in the sludge drying beds prior to landfill disposal or land application. New sludge
drying beds will be constructed in the footprint of the old trickling filters.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 67]
Order No. R1-2019-0020
Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District No. 1
NPDES No. CA0023078
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated wastewater is discharged to the Pacific Ocean west of the Facility at Discharge Point 001
at 39° 26’ 25” N latitude and 123° 49’ 4” W longitude.
The outfall was constructed in 1977 and extends approximately 650 feet offshore to an average
ocean depth of 20 feet (mean sea level datum) with a diffuser system designed to produce a 50:1
dilution at peak flow conditions. The outfall consists of a 24-inch reinforced concrete pipe
anchored in a trench in bedrock by anchor bolts every 12 feet and encased within approximately
20 inches of concrete. Treated wastewater is discharged through a diffuser comprising 14 6-inch
aluminum bronze risers that project vertically every 8 feet near the end of the outfall. Each riser
terminates in a 3-inch diffuser port directed parallel to the seafloor. As built, each port was
covered with a natural rubber flapper. A 2012 dive inspection revealed that five of the fourteen
diffusers were plugged with sediment and only one flapper valve remained. The Permittee hired
divers in Novembe

===PLANNED CHANGES===

