[Page 75]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
complete on
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) and associated
collection system. The Facility serves the City of Arcata and the unincorporated community of
Glendale. The Facility serves a population of approximately 18,695, including 18,169 within the City of
A. Background
Arcata and 526 within the community of Glendale.
Adopted on Mauyn 1le6s,s 1 t9h7e4 d, iRscehsaorlugeti oennh Naon.c 7e4s -t4h3e ,q kunaoliwtyn o afs t hthee r eBcaeyisv ianngd w Eastteura arbieosv Pe othliacyt ,w hich
pwroouhldib oitcsc tuhre i nd itshceh aabrgseen ocfe m ofu tnhiec idpiaslc hwaarsgteewater and industrial process water to enclosed bays
and estuaries “ 1) Fu1ll uninterrupted protection of all beneficial uses which
could be made of the receiving water body in.” t hTeh aeb Esnenclcoes oefd a Blla pyosi annt dso Eusrtcuea driisecsh Paorlgiec(ys ) along with
e(2n)h aa ndceemmoennsttr cartiitoenr ibay i st hdee afipnpeldic aasn, t“ …th a(t the discharge, through the creation of new beneficial uses
or fuller realization, enhances water quality for those beneficial uses which could be made of the
receiving water in the absence of all point source discharges…
2
”
In the fall of 1974, the Permittee first began to pursue an exemption from the Enclosed Bays and
Estuaries Policy, and in the spring of 1977, the Permittee brought forward a project consisting of
3
a marsh treatment process with discharge to Humboldt Bay.
In 1979, after holding a fact-finding hearing, the State Water Resources Control Board (State
Water Board) issued Order No. 79-20, interpreting the provision of the Enclosed Bays and
Estuaries Policy that provided for an exemption from the discharge of municipal wastewater into
an enclosed bay, such as Humboldt Bay. In that decision, the State Water Board concluded that
there was a reasonable probability that the discharge of secondary, disinfected and dechlorinated
effluent into Humboldt Bay, together with a treatment process which either created new
beneficial uses or resulted in a fuller realization of existing beneficial uses, such as the marsh
treatment process proposed by the Permittee, could enhance the receiving water quality. The
State Water Board further concluded that enhancement required: (1) full secondary treatment,
1
State Water Resources Control Board, Water Quality Control Policy For The Enclosed Bays and Estuaries of
California, May 1974
2
State Water Resources Control Board, Bill Dendy Memorandum to Regional Water Board Executive Officer David
Joseph, October 21, 1974
3
City of Arcata, draft Wastewater Treatment, Water Reclamation, and Ocean Ranching, April 18, 1977
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 76]
with disinfection and dechlorination, of sewage discharges; (2) compliance with any additional
NPDES permit requirements issued by the Regional Water Board to protect beneficial uses; and
(3) the fuller realization of existing beneficial uses or the creation of new beneficial uses either by
1
or in conjunction with a wastewater treatment project. A pilot project funded by the State Water
Board in 1981 was designed and implemented by the Permittee to demonstrate the effectiveness
of wetland treatment in meeting water quality treatment standards. The final report from this
23
pilot was accepted by the Regional Water Board.
In 1983, the Regional Water Board adopted Resolution No. 83-9, granting the Permittee a waiver,
as defined in Chapter I, Paragraph A of the Enclosed Bays and Estuaries Policy, permitting
continued Humboldt Bay discharge. Resolution No. 83-9 found that the marsh disposal
alternative meets the definition of enhancement set forth in State Water Board Order No. 79-20
because the waste would achieve secondary treatment standards, create no adverse impacts to
4
present beneficial uses and the discharge would create new beneficial uses and wildlife habitat.
As constructed, the AMWS consists of three freshwater wetlands: Allen, Gearheart, and Hauser
Marshes. These marshes currently receive equivalent to secondary treated wastewater, provide
enhanced treatment for discharges to Humboldt Bay, and create new beneficial uses, which
would not exist in the absence of the discharge. The AMWS provides enhanced water quality
treatment, while hosting a variety of cold-water aquatic organisms and vegetation, creating an
extraordinary habitat for shorebirds, waterfowl, raptors, and migratory birds. As a result, the
AMWS is an integral part of the WWTF and a valued part of the Arcata community as it provides
B. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
numerous non-contact recreation and educational opportunities.
1. Existing Treatment Configuration.
Primary wastewater treatment consists of mechanical
bar screens, grit removal, and two primary clarifiers. Primary solids are sent to two
anaerobic digesters, sludge drying beds, and a sludge composting operation. Influent flows
above 5.0 mgd are diverted around primary treatment directly to the oxidation ponds.
Secondary treatment is accomplished using two oxidation ponds 22.4 acres and 17.3 acres
in size, respectively, and six treatment marshes. Detention time in the Facility, prior to
enhanced treatment in the AMWS, is approximately 39 days during average dry weather
design flow periods. Effluent is disinfected with chlorine and dechlorinated with sulfur
dioxide prior to discharged. Treated effluent is continuously commingled with effluent from
the AMWS, disinfected, and split, flowing by gravity either to Humboldt Bay or again
through the AMWS. The result is disinfected secondary effluent, but not all effluent receives
the benefit of enhanced treatment through the AMWS before discharge to Humboldt Bay
and some effluent may be chlorinated multiple times, increasing the opportunity to form
disinfection byproducts above water quality objectives. The average flow through the
AMWS during the previous permit (August 2012 through April 2019) was 1.14 mgd with a
2. Upgraded Treatment Configuration.
maximum flow of 2.3 mgd.
The Permittee is planning to upgrade the Facility in
two phases. Phase One of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Proposed Upgrade Project will consist of rehabilitation of the
headworks and primary clarifier, new aerators in oxidation pond one, addition of a baffle
1
State Water Board Order No. 79-20, May 17, 1979
2
Gearhart, R.A., B. Finney, S. Wilbur, J. Williams, D. Hill, and S. Sundberg, City of Arcata Marsh Pilot Project, Effluent
Quality Results System Design Management, Project No: C-06-2270, State of California Water Resources Control
Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
3
Gearhart, R.A., S. Wilbur, H. Holbrook, and M. Ives, City of Arcata Marsh and Pilot Project, Wetland Bacteria
Speciation and Harvesting Effect on Water Quality, Project No: 3-154-500-0, State of California Water Resources
Control Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
4
Regional Water Board, Resolution No. 83-9, July 28, 1983
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 77]
wall and aerators in oxidation pond two, improvements to multiple pump stations,
construction of the UV disinfection system and the construction of piping for Discharge
Point 003. Completion of this phase will allow for peak flows to be discharged to Discharge
Point 003.
Phase Two of the project will include construction of the oxidation ditch, secondary
clarifiers, return activated sludge pump station, an alkalinity feed station and rehabilitation
of the anaerobic digester. The rehabilitation of the anaerobic digester will include digester
cleaning, replacing digester covers, replacing the boiler/heat exchanger, replacing the
mixing and heating piping in the primary digester as needed, adding a sludge thickening
system and relocating composting facilities to a new area on site. Completion of this phase
will allow the Permittee to comply with final effluent limitations for ammonia at Discharge
Point 001 and Discharge Point 003 as well as more stringent BOD and TSS limitations at
Discharge Point 002. Time Schedule Order No. R1-2019-0011 includes task and compliance
dates for completion of Phase One and Phase Two of the Proposed Upgrade Project.
The wetland treatment system train and parallel oxidation ditch train will each treat a
portion of the influent flow at variable percentages. The wetland treatment system will treat
the majority of the influent flow up to 2.3 mgd. The parallel oxidation ditch treatment train
5
will provide BOD removal and year-round full nitrification treatment capacity to handle the
remainder of the hydraulic capacity needs up to 5.9 mgd.
The Permittee is planning to replace the chlorine disinfection system with an ultraviolet
light (UV) disinfection system, through which commingled effluent from the treatment
wetlands and parallel oxidation ditch will flow prior to discharge to the AMWS at Discharge
Point 002. The Permittee has evaluated the ability to disinfect all flow using UV and is
currently planning to disinfect flows up to 7.6 mgd through the Facility with UV. Wastewater
discharged at Discharge Point 002 will flow through the Allen, Gearheart, and Hauser
marshes in succession. The Permittee will manage flows through Allen, Gearhear