[Page 85]
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at SBWRP consist of influent
screening using mechanically cleaned bar screens, grit removal using aerated grit
chambers, primary sedimentation using rectangular primary clarifiers, primary effluent
flow equalization basin (1.5 million gallons), biological treatment with the air-activated
sludge process and an anoxic selector zone, secondary clarification using rectangular
secondary clarifiers, direct filtration using conventional deep bed mono-media
(anthracite) filters, and disinfection using ultraviolet light from high intensity, medium
pressure lamps.
All SBWRF flows undergo primary and secondary treatment. The quantity of flows
directed to SBWRP tertiary filtration facilities is dependent on anticipated reclaimed
water demands. During times of no reclaimed water demand, up to 15 million gallons
per day (MGD) of the secondary effluent may be directed to the Pacific Ocean via the
SBOO. During times of maximum reclaimed water demand, the entire flow may be
directed to tertiary treatment and subsequent beneficial reuse.
Solids removed through the screening and grit removal processes are hauled offsite
and disposed of in a landfill. Waste solids removed through the
sedimentation/clarification process are returned to the sewer for transport to Point
Loma, where they are again removed and directed to anaerobic digesters at the Point
Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant for stabilization. After digestion, the solids are
dewatered and thickened for reuse as a soil amendment or for disposal.
Secondary treatment design capacity at SBWRP is currently 18.0 MGD as a 30-day
average daily flow. In the Report of Waste Discharge the Discharger reported the
average daily flow as 4.24 MGD.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Discharger jointly owns and operates the SBOO with the Boundary and Water
Commission (IBWC) of the Federal Government. The SBOO was constructed for use
by the IBWC’s International Wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

