[Page 68]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Shasta Lake City and
serves a population of approximately 10,233. The Facility is designed to treat an average
dry weather flow of 1.3 mgd and a peak month wet weather flow of 5.2 mgd
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Influent wastewater is collected and pumped to the treatment facility and discharged into
the plant’s head works. At the headworks, the influent flow rate is measured by a Parshall
flume and debris are removed from the flow stream by a mechanically cleaned bar screen.
The screened wastewater flows from the headworks to the secondary treatment system.
The secondary treatment system removes most of the soluble organic and suspended
matter in the wastewater. The secondary treatment system uses the activated sludge
process and consists of an oxidation ditch with mechanical brush aerators, a mixed liquor
pump station, two secondary clarifiers, and a return activated sludge/waste activated
sludge (RAS / WAS) control structure. Secondary effluent flows from the secondary
clarifiers to the advanced secondary treatment system.
The advanced secondary treatment system further removes suspended solids from the
secondary effluent by filtration. The system consists of storage and feed facilities for alum
and polymer, an alum mixer, flocculation’s basin, and two automatic backwash filters.
Chlorine solution is added to the filter effluent and discharged to the chlorine contact basin
for disinfection. The chlorinated plant effluent flows through the chlorine contact basin
where the chlorine is contacted with the plant effluent for a minimum of two hours. At the
outlet of the contact basin, a flow distribution structure distributes plant effluent to the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 69]
CITY OF SHASTA LAKE ORDER NO. R5-2008-0037
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079511
reclaimed water reservoir, irrigation pump station, and Churn Creek outfall. Sulfur dioxide
solution is added to the plant effluent prior to discharge into Churn Creek to remove
residual chlorine.
During the recreation season, 15 April to 15 October, and during the remainder of the year
when in-stream dilution is less than 10:1 in Churn Creek, all effluent is disposed of as
reclaimed water on land by spray irrigation or discharged to the reclaimed water reservoir
for other reclamation uses. The reclaimed water reservoir can store up to 420 acre-feet of
reclaimed water.
Solids handling facilities at Shasta Lake WWTF include aerobic digester and sludge
storage basins. Wastes activated sludge and scum from the secondary clarifiers are
removed from the secondary treatment process and pumped to the aerobic digester. The
aerobic digester biologically reduces the amount of volatile matter in the WAS. After
digestion, the stabilized sludge flows to the sludge storage basins. The sludge storage
basins provide storage the stabilized solids during the wet weather periods and serve as
drying beds during the warm summer months. Once the sludge is dry, it is suitable for
disposal or reuse.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 1, T32N, R4W, MDB&M at Point Latitude 40º, 39’,
49” N and longitude 122º, 22’, 47” W, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point EFF-001 to Churn
Creek, a w

===PLANNED CHANGES===

