[Page 1]
5. Existing Treatment - The existing treatment facility is designed to treat 9.5 million gallons per
day (MGD), including up to 65,000 gallons per day of hauled septage. The wastewater
treatment processes include headworks, grit removal, primary clarifier, trickling filter,
intermediate clarifier, secondary trickling filters, secondary clarifiers, gravity sludge
thickeners, anaerobic diges~ers, and sludge drying beds.
6. Expanded Treatment - Construction of an expanded treatment facility is currently
underway. The expanded facility (anticipated to be completed by 2010) is designed to treat
13.5 MGD with wastewater treatment processes including headworks (comminutor and flow
meter), grit removal, primary clarifiers, trickling filters, intermediate clarifier, secondary
trickling filters, secondary clarifiers, gravity sludge thickeners, anaerobic digesters, and
sludge drying beds. The expanded treatment facilities, including current and future disposal
areas are depicted on Attachments Band C of this Order.
7. Disposal - The treated wastewater is disposed of to 17 percolation ponds covering
approximately 120 acres. The percolation ponds are operated in fill, dry, and rest cycles to
enhance nitrogen removal. Expansion of the disposal facilities will include an additional 150
acres of percolation ponds phased in over the next 15 to 20 years.
8. Solids· Handling - Solids removed during the treatment processes are anaerobically
digested, dried, and disposed of at a composting facility or used at the Santa Maria landfill
for soil amendment in the vegetative cover portion of the final cover system.
9. Geology and Soils - The vicinity of the discharge is characterized by a broad alluvial plain
near the ocean that tapers gradually inland. The alluvial plain is further defined by upland or
mesa areas, foothills and mountain complexes. The disposal ponds are located on level
ground underlain by loamy sands, silty sands and clay layers.
10. Surface Water - The Santa Maria River flows in a westerly direction approximately two
miles north of the treatment and disposal facility. There is no surface discharge from the
treatment facility to the Santa Maria River.
11. Groundwater - The Santa Maria groundwater basin lies in a coastal valley in western Sa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

