[Page 1]
Base and Meridian in Mariposa County.
The existing OWTS at the South Entrance Station consists of flush toilets at the “Ranger
office” and the “Historic Comfort Station”. The septic tanks at the existing areas will be
replaced and a new “Visitor Contact Center” will be constructed. The new septic tanks
at the Historic Comfort Center and the Ranger office will have capacities of 15,000
gallons and 2,000 gallons, respectively. The existing fixtures at the Historic Comfort
Station and the Ranger office will be replaced by low flow plumbing fixtures. The septic
tank for the new Visitor Contact Center will have a 55,000 gallon capacity. New 6-inch
PVC pipe will convey effluent from all three new septic tanks to a 20,000 gallon dosing
tank for flow equalization. The effluent will be discharged from the dosing tank into a
new 3-acre leachfield southwest of the South Entrance Station along an existing service
road that is to be improved to provide all year access. The new Visitor Contact Center
will be equipped with 17 low-flow toilets, three waterless urinals, and 10 low-flow sinks.
The proposed leachfield will cover about 3.0 acres and will consist of a pressure
distribution leach trench constructed in four cells. Each cell is equipped with its own
6-outlet automatic, SCADA monitored distributing valve, and each cell consists of six
zones typically with two 120-foot laterals. Each leachfield cell will have an inspection
port in each leachfield lateral for monitoring wastewater depth in the leach trenches.
Two groundwater monitoring wells will be installed at the base of the leachfield to
measure the depth to water below the leachfield area.
The anticipated average daily flow from the new Visitor Contact Center will be about
9,500 gallons per day (gpd) with peak flows of 15,830 gpd on holidays. The average
flow anticipated from the Historic Comfort Station will be about 2,300 gpd with a peak
flow of 3,890 gpd. The peak flow at the Ranger office will be 200 gpd.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusi

[Page 4]
South Entrance Station OWTS
by a California licensed General Engineering (A), Plumbing (C-36), or Sanitation System
(C-42) contractor. The Discharger shall maintain a record of all repair activities for a
minimum of five years. At a minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of repair,
service company name, and service company state contractor license number.
With regards General Order Section B.6.b., and as stated in the RWD, due to leachfield
siting limitations, there is no reserve area for leachfield replacement under this Order
WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5208. The Discharger understands that should a leachfield
failure occur at the South Entrance Station OWTS, the system will be shut down until an
approved resolution is implemented.
Failure to comply with the requirements in this NOA, General Order
2014-0153-DWQ-R5208, with all attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5208
could result in an enforcement action as authorized by provisions of the California Water
Code. Discharge of wastes other than those

===PLANNED CHANGES===

