[Page 1]
Central Valley Region (Central Valley Water Board) Executive Officer.
The existing WWTF is a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) that produces tertiary treated
effluent. The treatment system consists of a rotating brush screen to remove solids from
the influent, a grit chamber, an anoxic chamber, an aerobic chamber, and membrane
filtration chamber. Aluminum sulfate is injected into the anoxic chamber for coagulation
and caustic soda is injected into the aerobic zone for pH control. The effluent is
disinfected using ultra violet light. As wastewater leaves the disinfection system it is
continuously monitored for turbidity, pH, electrical conductivity (EC), and temperature.
Solids collected by the brush screen and grit chamber are placed into a dumpster and
disposed of offsite. A 52,000 gallon concrete overflow pond is adjacent to the WWTF in
case of a treatment system failure or during system maintenance.
The proposed leachfields will cover an area of 50,570 square feet (1.16 acres) and will
consist of a pressure distribution system constructed in six cells. The leachfields have a
design capacity of 55,000 gpd. The RWD indicates the WWTF will have average daily
flow of tertiary treated wastewater of 9,280 gallons per day (gpd) with an estimated daily·
maximum of 25,360. gpd during peak periods. The RWD indicates WWTF has a design
capacity of 60,000 gpd, but per the requirements of Section D of the General Order the
average flow from the WWTF cannot exceed an average of 20,000 gpd.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ-R5187, with all
attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5187.
In accordance with the requirements of the General Order, discharges without shallow
groundwater and flow rates that average less than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a
nitrogen effluent limitation.
The General Order states in Section 8.1.1 that the Discharger shall comply with the
setbacks as described in Table 3. This table summarizes different setback requirements
for wastewater system equipment, activities, land application areas, and storage and/or
[Page 2]
Mr. Hazem Gabr - 3 - 6 July 2015
Southern California Edison Company
Big Creek Powerhouse No.1
treatment ponds from sensitive receptors and property lines where applicable. The
Discharger shall comply with the applicable setback requirements, as summarized in the
following table:
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Flowing Ephemeral Stream Property Lake or
Stream Drainage Line Reservoir
Aerobic Treatment Unit,
200 ft.
Treatment System, 50 ft. 1 50 ft. 3 5 ft.
50 ft.
or Collection System 4'
200 ft.
Leach Field 5 100 ft. 2,3 50 ft. 3 5 ft.
100 ft.
LAA (disinfected
25 ft. 50 ft. 25 ft. 200 ft.
tertiary recycled water)
No spray irrigation of any recycled water, other than
Spray Irrigation
disinfected tertiary recycled water, shall take place within 100
(disinfected tertiary
feet of a residence or a place where public exposure could be
recycled water)
similar to that of a park, playground, or school yard.
1.
Setback established by Onslte Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.6.
2. California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site-specific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an increased setback ..
See discussion in Well Standards. .
3. Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K-1.
4. Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment located below ground or
that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
5. Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
The General Order states in Section D.1.a that the discharge shall not exceed the effluent
limitations as described in Table 4. This table summarizes effluent limitations for activated
sludge, membrane biological reactor (MPR), or similar treatment systems (not including
residential aerobic treatment systems) and treatment systems with flow rates in excess of
20,000 gpd. The Discharger shall comply with the applicable effluent limitations, as
summarized in the following table:
Effluent Limitations Based on Technology Performance
Activated Sludge, MBR 1, or similar (not including residential aerobic treatment units)
Constituent Units Limit
800 2 mg/L 3 30 (monthly average), 45 (7-day average)
TSS4 mg/L 30 (monthly average), 45 (7-day average)
"I. =
MBR membrane biological reactor
2. BOD = biochemical oxygen demand
3. =
mg/L milligrams per liter
4.
TSS = total suspended solids
[Page 3]
Mr. Hazem Gabr -4- 6 July 2015
Southern California Edison Company
Big Creek Powerhouse No.1
As mentioned above, SCE is in the process of preparing a Title 22 Technical Report to
address using the proposed spray fields as a disposal method. Until SeE has received
approval o

===PLANNED CHANGES===

