[Page 1]
FACILITY AND DESCRIPTION
Casa Del Rey HOA owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal Facility which
serves a planned development of approximately 56 condominium type units. The Facility is
located in central Butte County in Section 31, T22N, R4E, and Section 6, T21N, R4E, MDB&M
with surface water drainage to Dry Creek, an indirect tributary of the Sacramento River, as
shown on Attachment A. Casa Del Rey HOA has been established as the entity responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment and disposal system for the Facility.
The community system consists of septic tanks, both gravity, and pressurized collection lines,
pump stations, three effluent dosing tanks, and discharges about 4,500 gpd to a community
leachfield.
This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 14, section 15301 which applies to ongoing or existing projects.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the
terms a

[Page 6]
Potential Threats to Water Quality
The Casa Del Rey WWTF is located just west of the Pentz Road, on the west side of Lake
Oroville, Butte County. The closest distance from the leachfield to the nearest property line
is greater than 5 feet. The closest potable water well is greater than 150 feet. The closest
surface water is greater than 500 feet from leachfield. A monitoring well network was
installed at the site due to seasonally high groundwater and poor soil conditions. Completion
of the Nitrate Checklist in Attachment 1 of Order 2014-0153-DWQ indicates the following
flow and rationale:
A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow generally less than 4,500 gpd.
Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.
Monitoring Requirements
To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, quarterly groundwater monitoring of well MW-1 through MW-6 and
annual inspections of the septic tank. Quarterly monitoring will be reported by the first day of
the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. January-March report is due by May 1st).
Annual monitoring will be included with the fourth quarter monitoring.
[Page 7]
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014-0153-DWQ-R5234
FOR
CASA DEL REY HOME OWNERS ASSOCIATION
WAST

===PLANNED CHANGES===

