[Page 0]
2020. Based on the information provided, the discharge from your WWTF is eligible for
coverage under the General Order.
This letter serves a formal notice that the General Order is applicable to your system
and the wastewater discharge described below, you are hereby assigned enrollee
number 2014-0153-DWQ-R5349 upon rescission of Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) Order 96-215. After WDRs Order 96-215 has been rescinded, coverage under
General Order 2014-0153-DWQ will become effective.
You should familiarize yourself with the entire General Order and its attachments
enclosed with this letter, which describe mandatory discharge and monitoring
requirements. Sampling, monitoring, and reporting requirements applicable to your
treatment and disposal methods must be completed in accordance with the appropriate
treatment system sections of the General Order and the attached Monitoring and
Reporting Program (MRP) No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5349. This MRP was developed after
[Page 1]
Cicely Muldoon, Superintendent 2 6 November 2020
Yosemite National Park
Glacier Point WWTF
consideration of your waste characterization and site conditions described in the
attached memorandum.
DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTF is currently regulated by WDRs 96-215, which allows a daily maximum flow
of up to 7,500 gallons per day (gpd) to leach fields. The WWTF is located at
5205 Glacier Point Road in Yosemite National Park. A site map is included in
Attachment A, which is incorporated by reference and considered part of this Notice of
Applicability (NOA). The WWTF consists of two lift stations, two septic tanks (existing
15,000-gallon tank and a new 2,000-gallon septic tank), a concrete dosing tank, and
leach fields. The WWTF treats domestic wastewater generated from an existing visitor
comfort station (Area 1), existing day use concessions building (Area 2), and existing
seasonal National Park Service employee living quarters (Area 3) open from
approximately May through October.
A new leach field was installed in 2019 and is located south of the employee quarters
(Area 3) and consists of four zones (labeled Zone A through Zone D). Zones A through
C have 7 laterals, Zone D has 9 laterals. Seasonal high groundwater made it difficult to
use the former leach field system. Therefore, the Discharger decided to construct the
new leach field in a new location. There are twelve piezometers (PZ-20 through PZ-31)
within the new leach field. The piezometer site map and the WWTF flow schematic are
show on Attachment B and Attachment C, respectively, of the NOA.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all
attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5349.
In accordance with Section B.1 of the General Order, treated wastewater discharged
from the treatment system to either the ponds and/or disposal field shall not exceed a
monthly average daily discharge of 15,000 gallons per day (gpd) to the leach field.
The Facility is closed during the winter and, therefore, will not discharge to the leach
field during the winter months. Per the requirements of the General Order, discharges
with flow rates less than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a nitrogen effluent limit.
The General Order states in Section B.1. that the Discharger shall comply with the
setbacks described in Table 3 of the General Order. This table summarizes different
setback requirements for wastewater treatment system equipment, activities, land
application areas, and storage and/or treatment ponds from sensitive receptors and
property lines where applicable. The Discharger shall comply with the applicable
setback requirements, as summarized in the following table:
[Page 2]
Cicely Muldoon, Superintendent 3 6 November 2020
Yosemite National Park
Glacier Point WWTF
Table 1 - Site-Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Ephemeral
Domestic Flowing Stream
Equipment or Activity Well Stream Drainage
Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit,
150 ft 50 ft 50 ft
Treatment System, and Collection System
Leach Field 100 ft 100 ft 50 ft
The Discharger shall comply with all applicable sections of the General Order, including:
1. Septic Systems requirements specified in Section B.2 of the General Order;
2. Subsurface Disposal Systems requirements specified in Section B.6 of the
General Order;
3. Sludge/Solids/Biosolids Disposal Requirements specified in Section B.8 of the
General Order; and
4. Groundwater and Surface Water Limitations specified in Section C.1 of the
General Order
Provision E.1 of the General Order requires discharges enrolled under the General
Order to prepare and implement the following reports within 90 days of the issuance of
the NOA (4 February 2021):
• Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan (

===PLANNED CHANGES===

