[Page 1]
119o 43’ 41” W. The sewage treatment plant has been sited on a 3.3-acre parcel
adjacent to Cottonwood Creek along the west property line. Attachment A of this NOA
contains a Site Location Map.
The Facility will consist of a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system, manufactured by
Cloacina, and will meet the requirements of disinfected-tertiary recycled water
consistent with Title 22 Requirements for unrestricted irrigation. The wastewater
treatment system will include fine screening, equalization, activated sludge treatment
with an anoxic zone, ultrafiltration, ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection, post-UV chlorine
dosing, and sludge thickening and storage. Attachment B of this NOA contains a
Process Flow Diagram for the proposed Facility.
The wastewater reclamation distribution facilities will consist of a recycled water pump
station and a distribution pipeline to recycled water storage ponds and landscape
irrigation areas. Phase One of the system will include three reclaimed water ponds and
17.66 acres of common area landscaping for irrigation with reclaimed water. The reuse
system will be expanded to accommodate additional community landscape needs as
the development grows.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-D

[Page 4]
4. The turbidity of filtered wastewater, prior to disinfection, shall not exceed:
a. 0.2 NTU more than 5 percent of the time within a 24-hour period, and
b. 0.5 NTU at any time.
5. The pH of the treated effluent shall be maintained between 6.5 to 8.4 standard
pH units.
6. For the UV disinfection system, the following specifications shall be satisfied at
all times:
[Page 5]
Richard Loughead, Jr. 6 27 August 2019
North Millerton Mutual Water Company
a. Peak flow rate (over a 24-hour period) shall not exceed 69 gallons per
minute (gpm),
b. The minimum percent UV transmittance shall be 65%,
c. The minimum operational UV dose shall be 80 mJ/cm2,
d. The minimum lamp wattage shall be 800 watts, and
e. Sodium hypochlorite shall be dosed upstream of the recycled water pump
station.
7. In the case of a failure or inadequate treatment, the Facility must automatically
divert treated effluent flows to the emergency overflow pond and have automatic
alarms sent to operators in the following cases:
a. Power failure and automatic transfer switch or generator failure;
b. Recycled water pump failure (alarm if either pump fails, alarm and divert
flows if both pumps fail);
c. Aeration blower failure;
d. More than one membrane module/cartridge is offline;
e. High turbidity (greater than 0.5 NTU);
f. Low-low UV intensity, transmittance, or operational dose;
g. Two adjacent UV lamp failure;
h. Multiple UV lamp failure; and
i. Effluent pH outside 6.5 to 8.4.
A Construction Quality Assurance (CQA) Plan and an Operation, Maintenance, and
Monitoring Plan shall be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board prior to the
construction of the lined on-site emergency storage pond. The CQA Plan should identify
key personnel including the CQA officer, a professional engineer responsible for site
preparation, construction, and liner installation. At a minimum the CQA Plan needs to
include responsibilities, procedures, and testing requirements to ensure proper
construction of the pond and liner installation in accordance with the design
specifications (e.g., slope stability analysis, sieve analysis, compaction testing, anchor
trenches, seam testing, etc.). In addition, an electrical leak detection survey needs to be
conducted on the installed liner prior to discharge of any wastewater into the on-site
emergency storage pond.
[Page 6]
Richard Loughead, Jr. 7 27 August 2019
North Millerton Mutual Water Company
Provision E.1 of the General Order requires dischargers enrolled under the General
Order to prepare and implement the following reports within 90 days of the issuance of
the NOA: Since the Facility has yet to be constructed, the Discharger must prepare
these reports 90 days prior commencing operations at the Fac

===PLANNED CHANGES===

