[Page 1]
Tenaya Lodge
operates the associated Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF) that is regulated by
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order 99-086. Order 99-086 allowed a discharge
of up to 0.08 million gallons per day (mgd) of secondary disinfected domestic effluent to
two separate disposal areas. In the winter, effluent is discharged to three leachfields, with
a designed flow limit of 0.030 mgd or 30,000 gallons per day (gpd). The existing
leachfields contain 2,484 feet of disposal trench. In the summer, when snow is not on the
ground, in addition to the leachfields, a subsurface drip disposal system is available for
use that by design adds another 0.050 mgd of disposal capacity.
DNC replaced the former secondary treatment WWTF in January of 2016 with a new
tertiary WWTF. The new WWTF is in the northeast quarter of Section 26, Township
5 South, Range 19 East of the Fish Camp Quadrangle. DNC is proposing to add
54-prefabricated cabins, The Explorer Cabins, to the system. The new WWTF was
designed to treat an average annual daily flow rate of 0.085 mgd and a maximum flow of
0.120 mgd. The average discharge rate is an

[Page 1]
78,000 gpd estimated for July of each year.
The current WWTF provides tertiary treatment that combines an activated sludge process,
membranes to filter the wastewater, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Wastewater from the
Tenaya Lodge cottages and hotel is conveyed to a headworks by way of a gravity sewer
main. In the headworks, wastewater is filtered through dual bar screens with 3-millimeter
openings, before being transferred to the main treatment system. Filtered material
captured in the screens is disposed of at the Mariposa County Sanitary Landfill. Sludge
separated from the effluent in the treatment process is dewatered using a centrifuge. It is
estimates that once the Explorer Cabins come on line, the WWTF will produce about
120 pounds of sludge per day which will be placed in a roll off bin for subsequent disposal
at the Mariposa County Sanitary Landfill.
The filtered wastewater is collected in a 50,000 gallon underground fiberglass equalization
tank with aeration to provide mixing. From the equalization tank, the wastewater is then
pumped into the anoxic basin inside the treatment plant building. The anoxic basin is
sized for denitrification and has a mixer to maintain the solids in solution while not
providing any air to the waste. The flow is moved to the aerated membrane bioreactor
(MBR) via pumps. The MBR has a dissolved oxygen (DO) probe to monitor the DO in the
basin and adjust the level of the blowers. Within this system is the UV treatment process
which acts as a disinfectant and is the last treatment step prior to dispersal. Additionally,
an existing centrifuge is utilized, as well as an off-board waste activated sludge (WAS)
storage. The centrifuge acts as a de-watering process to separate suspended solids from
the treated water prior to membrane filtration and disinfection.
Central Valley Water Board staff and Mariposa County Health Department (Mariposa
County) staff have had concerns regarding the disposal capacity of the leachfields dating
back to the late 1990’s (daylighting effluent), particularly during November and December,
[Page 2]
Mr. Brian Fulce - 3 - 9 August 2017
Delaware North Companies, Inc.
Tenaya Lodge
when only the leachfields could be used for disposal. DNC had the Salem Engineering
Group (Salem) evaluate the capacity of the disposal systems. Salem excavated six test
pits and performed six percolation tests in the area of the leachfields in 2015. Salem
concluded that the actual capacity of the leachfields is 34,600 gpd and the capacity of the
subsurface drip disposal system is 64,250 gpd.
Using the information from the Salem Report and anticipated lodge occupancies, DNC
submitted a Revised RWD on 6 June 2016 in support of the Explorer Cabin project. The
Revised RWD included estimates of the volume of wastewater that would be generated at
the Tenaya Lodge on a monthly basis and were based on past

[Page 2]
Tenaya Lodge
when only the leachfields could be used for disposal. DNC had the Salem Engineering
Group (Salem) evaluate the capacity of the disposal systems. Salem excavated six test
pits and performed six percolation tests in the area of the leachfields in 2015. Salem
concluded that the actual capacity of the leachfields is 34,600 gpd and the capacity of the
subsurface drip disposal system is 64,250 gpd.
Using the information from the Salem Report and anticipated lodge occupancies, DNC
submitted a Revised RWD on 6 June 2016 in support of the Explorer Cabin project. The
Revised RWD included estimates of the volume of wastewater that would be generated at
the Tenaya Lodge on a monthly basis and were based on past occupancy and water
usage. Central Valley Water Board staff reviewed the data and compared it to real time
data collected from the newly upgraded WWTF and found that the Revised RWD greatly
underestimated the actual flows in the months of November through February of each
year.
Due to those concerns, DNC submitted Report of Waste Discharge – Amendment No. 2
on 6 February 2017 that proposes to add 908 linear feet of leachfield trench to the existing
central leachfield. The added trenches will result in the three leachfield areas having a
total of 3,392 feet of leachfield and will increase the disposal capacity to 45,835 gpd. Blair,
Church, and Flynn also submitted climatic data and requested that the subsurface drip
system be allowed for use in the first 15-days of November and the last 15-days of March
if snow is not on the ground. The dual usage of the subsurface drip system along with a
150,000 gallon storage tank and the expanded leachfield should provide sufficient disposal
capacity at the Tenaya Lodge.
The results for electrical conductivity (EC), total dissolved solids (TDS), biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), and nitrate as nitrogen from the new WWTF since February 2016
are presented in Table 1. The results are from 14 samples collected from February 2016
through March 2017. The numbers below the results in parentheses are the ran

[Page 3]
2017. DNC is in the process of obtaining approval of the Title 22 Report required for the
operation of the landscape irrigation system from the State Water Boards, Division of
Drinking Water. This General Order limits the discharge to the subsurface disposal
systems only at this time. The use of landscape irrigation for wastewater disposal shall
not occur until the Title 22 Report has been approved by the State Water Boards, Division
of Drinking Water, and by the Central Valley Water Board Executive Officer. Prohibition
A.10 of the General Order states that the use of recycled water in a manner different than
described in the DDW approved title 22 engineering report is prohibited.
The Recycled Water Policy requires permits for landscape irrigation with recycled water to
include priority pollutant monitoring at the recycled water production facility. Annual
monitoring is required for design production flows greater than one million gallons per day;
a five year monitoring frequency is required for flows less than one million gallons per day.
Priority pollutants are listed in Appendix A of 40 Code of Federal Regulations
(C.F.R.) Part 423.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ-R5233, with all
attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5233.
The maximum discharge from the WWTF to the leachfields is currently 34,600 gpd. Upon
the completion of the addition of the 908 linear feet of leachfield trench, and with approval
from the County of Mariposa Health Department staff and the Executive Officer, DNC may
increase the discharge to the leachfields to 45,835 gpd. During the summer months (mid-
March through mid-November of each year) the maximum discharge increases due to the
availability of the subsurface drip disposal system that provides another 64,250 gpd of
[Page 4]
Mr. Brian Fulce - 5 - 9 August 2017
Delaware North Companies, Inc.
Tenaya Lodge
disposal. Discharge to the subsurface drip disposal system cannot occur when there is
snow

===PLANNED CHANGES===

