[Page 1]
Duggans Road, Grass Valley in Nevada County, assessor’s parcel number 55-060-10
Section 8, Township 14N, Range 8E, MDM. The Discharger leases the school to other
educational entities but is fully responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
physical plant and the WWTF. The School location is shown on Attachment A, which is
attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. The School is located
approximately 4 miles from the nearest regional wastewater collection and treatment
system, therefore, wastewater is collected and treated on-site. Surrounding land uses
include rural residential parcels. The nearest natural surface water is Long Hollow,
approximately 5,000 feet to the south, which is tributary to Wolf Creek and the Bear
River. There is a reservoir and tank providing irrigation and fire protection water located
approximately 350 feet northeast of the main campus area.
The WWTF provides treatment and disposal of wastewater generated at the elementary
school. Wastewater is generated by students and staff, with markedly decreased flow
rates typical during school holidays and vacation periods. The system was originally
designed for a total population of approximately 600 students and staff. Currently, the
population is less than 200 students and staff. The school does serve food, however
there is no commercial food preparation.
A groundwater well serving domestic potable water to the school is located to the east
of the campus, upgradient approximately 400 feet from the septic tanks and 630 feet
from the ponds and leach field areas. The domestic wastewater flow volume is
determined using domestic water meter records. Since the water system is only used
for domestic purposes, it is reasonably assumed that most water used goes through to
the wastewater system.
The WWTF has a design capacity of 5,190 gallons per day (gpd) and consists of two
1,500-gallon septic tanks, an aerated oxidation pond, a settling pond, and a leach field
disposal system. All treatment operations, with the exception of a small emergency
leach field, are located on the school property as shown in the site plan on Attachment
B, which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. The small
emergency leach field area is located across Duggans Road, to the west and down-
gradient from the school.
Wastewater flows by gravity from the various school buildings to the septic tanks, which
are located side by side. Septic tank sludge depth is measured annually. Each tank is
pumped out as needed, generally every two or three years.
From the septic tanks, wastewater flows by gravity to an aerated oxidation pond and
then to a settling pond. A floating aerator operates on a timer to provide aeration in the
oxidation pond. From the oxidation pond wastewater flows to the settling pond. Pond
levels are controlled by manually operated telescoping valves. Both the aeration pond
and settling pond have base areas of approximately 63 feet (ft) by 24 ft, with 3:1 sloped
sides. Each pond has a capacity of approximately 152,000 gallons (approximately one
acre foot) while maintaining 2 ft of freeboard. Sludge removal from the ponds is very
infrequent.
[Page 2]
Pleasant Ridge Union School District -3 - 30 December 2021
Pleasant Ridge Elementary School WWTF
The primary leach field is approximately 20,000 square ft, and consists of five leach
lines of 300 ft each (1,500 ft total) with a distribution header. Leach lines are on a 10 ft
spacing and include a series of connecting lines to distribute the flow. There is a
standpipe at the end of each line for inspection. Leach line trenches are 2 ft wide with
1½-inch crushed rock set a minimum of 12 inches below the perforated leach line. The
primary leach field’s design capacity is 2,580 gpd. In addition to the main leach field,
there is an emergency leach field across Duggans Road (design capacity of 2,150 gpd),
and an older, typically unused, leach field above the main leach; both of which are
connected to the system and available as backup. There are also undeveloped areas
on the school property adjacent to the primary leach field which could be used as repair
area(s) if necessary.
Under current operating and drought conditions, with flow rates well below the design
capacity of the WWTF, the evaporation occurring in the two ponds is sufficient for
disposal of wastewater, and it has not been necessary to utilize the leach field system
for the past few years.
Drainage channels on site convey storm water to a county-maintained roadside ditch
along Duggans Road where it is conveyed off site. There is no groundwater monitoring
at this site because the depth to groundwater is estimated to be more than 140 feet
below ground surface (ft bgs) and the discharge does not pose a threat to groundwater.
The depth to groundwater is based on the facility’s existing domestic drinking water
well, shown on Attachment B, which was drilled to 200 ft bgs and is screened from 140
to 200 ft bgs.
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITS
Note that the General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all
wastewater treatment systems as well as those that only apply to specific treatment
and/or disposal systems. The specific requirements and effluent limits for your
treatment system are summarized below.
The wastewater treatment operator must be certified and familiar with the requirements
contained in the General Order, this NOA, and the MRP.
Requirements by Wastewater System Type, Section B of General Order
This section applies in its entirety to the Pleasant Ridge Elementary School WWTF
with the following site-specific requirements.
B.1 All Wastewater Systems
a. Influent flow limits (Section B.1.a of General Order):
Table 1. Influent flow limits
Treatment Unit Flow Limit as Monthly Average
Septic tank influent 5,100 gpd
[Page 3]
Pleasant Ridge Union School District -4 - 30 December 2021
Pleasant Ridge Elementary School WWTF
b. Wastewater system setbacks (Section B.1.l, Table 3 of General Order),
measured from the nearest high-water limit (bottom of freeboard) in the ponds
must be at least as described in Table 2, below.
Table 2. Wastewater system setback requirements
Ephemeral
Equipment or Domestic Flowing Property Lake or
Stream
Activity Well Stream Line Reservoir
Drainage
Septic Tank,
50 ft 50 ft 50 ft 5 ft 200 ft
Collection System
Treatment ponds
150 ft 150 ft 150 ft 50 ft 200 ft
(note 1)
Leach Field 100 ft 100 ft 50 ft 5 ft 100 ft
Table 2 note 1: Requirement for wastewater treatment and impoundment of
undisinfected secondary recycled water.
B.2 Septic Systems
The WWTF utilizes a septic tank; therefore Section B.2 of General Order applies
in its entirety.
B.5 Pond Systems
The WWTF utilizes a pond system; therefore Section B.5 of General Order
applies in its entirety.
B.6 Subsurface Disposal Systems
The WWTF utilizes a subsurface disposal system; therefore Section B.6 of
General Order applies in its entirety.
B.8 Sludge/Solids Disposal
The WWTF includes septic tanks and ponds that may accumulate sludge;
therefore Section B.8 of the General Order applies in its entirety.
Sections B.3, B.4, and B.7 are not applicable because the WWTF does not use an
aerobic treatment unit, an activated sludge system, nor land application.
Effluent Limitations, Section D of General Order
This section applies in its entirety to the Pleasant Ridge Elementary School WWTF
and shall include the following site-specific limitations.
a. Effluent Limitations:
The following limit applies to effluent from the Oxidation Pond.
[Page 4]
Pleasant Ridge Union School District -5 - 30 December 2021
Pleasant Ridge Elementary School WWTF
Table 3. Oxidation Pond Effluent Limitations
Constituent Limit
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 90 mg/L
b. Effluent Limit Rationale:
Staff evaluated the need for a total nitrogen effluent limit using the
method contained in the General Order and determined that a nitrogen
effluent limit is not required because the monthly average flow will be
less than 20,000 gpd, and all ponds maintain a minimum of 3 feet
separation from groundwater.
Technical Report Preparation Requirements, Section E.1 of General Order
The following technical reports shall be submitted as described below:
1. By 15 June 2022, the Discharger shall submit a Spill Prevention and
Emergency Response Plan (Response Plan) consistent with the
requirements of General Order Provision E.1.a.
2. By 15 June 2022,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

