[Page 1]
CalFire – Mount Bullion Conservation Camp WWTF
17,000 gpd. The system will include two primary fiberglass septic tanks, an 8,000-gallon
secondary holding tank, and a new 3,925-foot leachfield. The system will also retain the existing
3,200-foot leachfield, two stabilization ponds with a combined capacity of about 0.9 million
gallons, and two spray fields covering approximately 3.2 acres of native grasses to provide
backup disposal to handle peak flows and wet weather.
The

[Page 2]
1. Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow-melt and does not have sufficient groundwater seepage
(baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface water. The drainage shall be measured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark.
Irrigation canals are not considered ephemeral streams drainage.
2. Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment located below ground or that impedes leak detection by
routine visual inspection.
3. Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.5.
4. California Well Standards, part II, section 8.
5. Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K-1.
6. Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
7. Unisinfected secondary recycled water is defined in California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60301.900.
8. Setback established by California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60310(d).
9. Setback established by California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60310(f).
10. Additional restrict

[Page 2]
11. Reduced setback for existing disposal areas based on site specific conditions (see discussion below).
The existing stabilization ponds and Spray Field 1, with setbacks of about 50 feet from an
ephemeral stream that crosses the site, do not meet the setback of 100 feet from ephemeral
streams for discharges of undisinfected wastewater to land application areas and 150 feet for
surface impoundments as specified in Table 3 of the General Order. As discussed in the
attached technical memorandum, based on site specific conditions, and since these setbacks in
Table 3 are not set by specific regulatory requirements (i.e., California Plumbing Code, Title 22,
etc.), a reduced setback of 50 feet in this case is acceptable provided the stabilization ponds
and Spray Field 1 are properly maintained and no nuisance conditions develop.
The Discharger shall comply with all applicable sections in the General Order, including:
(a) Septic system requirements specified in Section B.2 of the General Order;
(b) Pond system requirements specified in section B.5 of the General Order;
(c) Subsurface system requirements specified in section B.6 of the General Order; and
(d) Land application and/or recycled water system requirements specified in section B.7
of the General Order.
In addition, subsurface disposal systems including leach fields and seepage pits, must comply
with USEPA Underground Injection Control requirements when classified as a Class V well.
Subsurface disposal systems are classified as Class V wells if; (i) it has the capacity to serve
20 or more persons per day, (ii) the system receives wastewater other than domestic
wastewater such as that generated by manufacturing, chemical processing, industrial fluid
disposal

[Page 5]
Spray Fields
Stabilization Ponds
Existing Leachfield
New Leachfield
SITE MAP
NOTICE OF APPLICABILITY 2014-0153-DWQ-R5284
FOR
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY AND FIRE PROTECTION
MOUNT BULLION CONSERVATION CAMP
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
MARIPOSA COUNTY
ATTACHMENT A
[Page 6]
Drains within Facility Return Flow
Spray Field #2
20,000-gallon 12,000-gallon
Septic Tank Septic Tank
Stabilization Pond #2
8,000-gallon
Septic Tank
Leachfield #2
Stabilization Pond #1
(Existing)
Spray Field #1
Leachfield #1
(New)
Return Flow
FLOW SCHEMATIC
NOTICE OF APPLICABILITY 2014-0153-DWQ-R5284
FOR
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY AND FIRE PROTECTION
MOUNT BULLION CONSERVATION CAMP
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
ATTACHMENT B
[Page 7]

[Page 8]
Scott Hatton 2 14 August 2018
CalFire – Mount Bullion Conservation Camp WWTF
wastewater treatment system consists of two primary septic tanks (a 20,000-gallon concrete
tank and a 12,000-gallon fiberglass tank), an 8,000-gallon secondary holding tank, and a
3,200-foot leachfield with a design capacity of 15,000 gallons per day (gpd). A Notice of
Violation (NOV) was issued to the Facility on 18 October 2017 citing potential concerns due to
heavy storms in early 2017 which threatened to cause the existing leachfield to become
oversaturated. In response, the Discharger plans to upgrade its existing system and expand
its disposal capacity by adding a new leachfield.
The upgrades will increase the design capacity to 17,000 gpd and will include replacing the
20,000-gallon primary concrete septic tank with a new 20,000-gallon waterproof fiberglass
tank, and installing a new 3,925-foot leachfield. The Discharger plans to keep the existing
leachfield and lift station to provide backup disposal during wet weather and will maintain the
two existing stabilization ponds and 3.2 acres of spray field of native grass as additional
disposal areas to handle overflow and peak flows. The discharge does not require a Title 22
Engineering report since the ponds and spray field areas are fenced to preclude public access
and the spray field does not produce a crop. The Discharger also plans to install a graywater
treatment and storage system to collect and treat graywater from the laundry and showers for
reuse and to reduce the load on the leachfield. Graywater from the laundry and showers will
be diverted to a separate drain and conveyed to a treatment system. The graywater treatment
system will consist of a small settling chamber and aeration chamber with membrane filtration
and UV disinfection. The treated graywater will be reused for dust control, vehicle washing,
fire-fighting training, and landscape irrigation at the site. According to the RWD, there are
additional plans to use the treated graywater for toilet flushing in the future.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The design flow for the upgraded wastewater treatment system will be approximately 17,000 gpd.
In accordance with the requirements in the General Order, discharges with flow rates less than
20,000 gpd are not required to meet a nitrogen effluent limitation.
A soil investigation and percolation tests were conducted within the area of the new leachfield.
As part of the investigation, six test pits were excavated to about nine feet below site grade (bsg).
Soils encountered consisted of sandy clays with some gravelly clays. No evidence of
groundwater was encountered in the borings. Percolation rates in the upper soils ranged from
about 20 minutes per inch (min/in) to 130 min/in, with an overall average of about 48 min/in.
According to Table 5: Min

[Page 8]
20,000 gpd are not required to meet a nitrogen effluent limitation.
A soil investigation and percolation tests were conducted within the area of the new leachfield.
As part of the investigation, six test pits were excavated to about nine feet below site grade (bsg).
Soils encountered consisted of sandy clays with some gravelly clays. No evidence of
groundwater was encountered in the borings. Percolation rates in the upper soils ranged from
about 20 minutes per inch (min/in) to 130 min/in, with an overall average of about 48 min/in.
According to Table 5: Minimum Depth to Groundwater and Minimum Soil Depth from the Bottom
of the Dispersal System of the General Order, the minimum depth to groundwater requirement for
percolation rates between 30 min/in and 120 min/in is five feet bsg. A previous site investigation
for the existing leachfield, conducted in 1996, documented that the clayey soils extended to
depths of 15 to 20 feet bsg, and usable groundwater was present in fractured bedrock at about
65 to 70 feet bsg. The 1996 investigation reported that saturated soils were encountered
at about eight feet bsg on the north end of the area (furthest from the proposed new leachfield),
but no evidence of saturated soils was encountered in excavations closer to the proposed new
leachfield to depths of about 10 feet bsg. Based on these site investigations, the proposed
leachfield will meet the five feet separation from groundwater.
[Page 9]
Scott Hatton 3 14 August 2018
CalFire – Mount Bullion Conservation Camp WWTF
The septic tanks and leachfields comply with the Wastewater System Setbacks specified in
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks of the General Order. However, the existing
stabilization ponds and Spray Field 1, have a setback of only 50 feet from an ephemeral stream
that crosses the site. The General Order lists a setback of 100 feet from ephemeral streams for
discharges of undisinfected wastewater to land application areas and 150 feet for surface
impoundments. According to the General Order, these setback distances are based on best
professional judgement and are not set by a speci

[Page 9]
CalFire – Mount Bullion Conservation Camp WWTF
The septic tanks and leachfields comply with the Wastewater System Setbacks specified in
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks of the General Order. However, the existing
stabilization ponds and Spray Field 1, have a setback of only 50 feet from an ephemeral stream
that crosses the site. The General Order lists a setback of 100 feet from ephemeral streams for
discharges of undisinfected wastewater to land application areas and 150 feet for surface
impoundments. According to the General Order, these setback distances are based on best
professional judgement and are not set by a specific regulatory requirement (i.e., Title 22,
California Plumbing Code, etc.). General Order Section B.1.l.v, allows setbacks for existing
systems to be relaxed based on site-specific conditions if the setback is not set by a specific
regulatory requirement.
No nuisance issues have been reported for the stabilization ponds or the spray fields and there
are no plans to upgrade or modify the use of these existing disposal areas. In addition, Spray
Field 1 is sloped away from the ephemeral stream and there is a collection sump at the end of
the field to capture runoff and return it to the ponds. Also, the primary disposal area will be the
new leachfield. According to the RWD, the ponds and spray fields will only be used as backup
for the leachfield disposal areas. During a recent inspection of the Facility, by Central Valley
Water Board staff, in April 2017, the operator reported that no wastewater had been diverted to
the stabilization ponds or spray fields for almost a year (i.e., since July 2016). Based on these
conditions, a reduced setback of 50 feet for the stabilization ponds and Spray Field 1 from the
ephemeral stream is acceptable provided no nuisance conditions develop. The NOA should
require the Discharger to maintain adequate freeboard in the stabilization ponds and include
monitoring and reporting requirements to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the ponds
and spray fields.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the General
Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring;
• Pond System Monitoring;
• Subsurface Disposal Area Monitoring;
• Land Application Area Monitoring; and
• Solids Disposal Monitoring.
CV-SALTS
The Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments incorporating new programs
for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018
Board Meeting. These programs, once effective, could change how the Central Vall

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgrades described in the RWD include installation of a graywater treatment
system to collect and treat graywater from the laundry and showers for reuse at the Facility,
which will reduce the load on the leachfield. Graywater from the laundry and showers will be
diverted to a separate drain and conveyed to a graywater treatment system consisting of a
small settling chamber and an aeration chamber, with membrane filters and UV disinfection.
The treated graywater will be reused for dust control, vehicle washing, fire-fighting training, and
landscape irrigation at the site. Treated graywater may also be used for toilet flushing in the
future.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the
terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ-R5284