[Page 100]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Oxnard Wastewater Treatment Plant serves a population of 249,050 in the city of Oxnard, the
city of Port Hueneme, the United States Naval Bases in Ventura County, and some unincorporated
areas of Ventura County. The City of Port of Hueneme and the United States Navy operate
separate collection systems, but each discharge to the City of Oxnard’s treatment plant. Flow to
the plant consists of domestic, commercial and industrial wastewater. For fiscal year 2017,
industrial wastewater represented about 11% (low peak) and 21% (high peak) of the total flow to
the Facility.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates the Oxnard Wastewater Treatment Plant, located at 6001
South Perkins Road in Oxnard, California. The OWTP has a total design treatment flow
capacity of 31.7 million gallons per day (MGD) of secondary treated effluent. For the period
from August 2013 to December 2017, secondary effluent discharge flow from OWTP
averaged 18.5 MGD with a maximum daily flow of 29.8 MGD, as reported to the Regional
Water Board1. Variations in flow associated with the production of recycled water resulted in
1 Recycled water production variations, driven by demand and operational limitations, result in daily variations in
OWTS discharge flow. As a result, flow measurements given in EPA NPDES application Form 3510-2A,
averaged over a short period, vary from that reported to the Regional Water Board, through CIWQS, averaged
over longer periods.
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET 10/11/2018 F-5
[Page 101]
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER R4-2018-0140
OXNARD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054097
wider variation in flow after 2016, with a minimum flow of 9.3 MGD and an average in the last
two years of 14.8 MGD.
1. Preliminary Treatment and Influent Pump Station: Preliminary treatment at the
headworks consists of an inlet junction structure, bar screens, screenings conveyance,
grit removal, and grit conveyance. The influent junction box collects flow from the
Southeast Interceptor Sewer and the Northwest Interceptor Sewer as well as tank
drainage and return flows from the OWTP. From there, flow is routed to a total of six
influent screen channels. Four of the screen channels have mechanical bar screens
while the remaining two are equipped with manual bar screens. From there, flow is
routed to one of two grit chambers to remove grit and other heavy material that is hauled
to an offsite landfill for disposal. Finally, flow is gravity fed to the influent pump station
wet well. The influent pump station includes six dry pit submersible pumps. During
normal operations three of the six pumps are on duty.
2. Primary Treatment: Raw wastewater from the headworks flows to three of four primary
sedimentation basins for primary treatment. Each sedimentation basin is 105 feet (ft) in
diameter and has a designated sludge collector, sludge pump, and surface scum
removal mechanism. The primary treatment process includes facilities for adding ferric
chloride and polymer to enhance sedimentation. Ferric chloride destabilizes the
suspended particles in the primary influent wastewater to promote flocculation. The
addition of polymer after floc formation produces a much larger floc, enhancing the
settling of suspended solids in the primary clarifiers.
3. Secondary Treatment: The secondary treatment system uses a fixed-film secondary
treatment process followed by an air-activated sludge process that removes organic
material (biochemical oxygen demand or BOD or BOD 200C) from primary effluent. The
5
secondary treatment system is comprised of biotowers, activated sludge tanks (ASTs),
and secondary sedimentation basins (SSTs). The primary effluent flows to an interstage
pump station where it is pumped by four circulation pumps over the two existing
biotowers. Flow is then pumped by three interstage feed pumps to the ASTs. The
OWTP has two ASTs that can be operated in a step-feed configuration. Additionally,
each AST has three channels that can be run in series or in parallel. Each pass has
fixed fine bubble diffusers fed by five single-stage centrifugal blowers. Five centrifugal
blowers supply air to the aeration basins to provide oxygen for the activated sludge
microorganisms and mixing of the mixed liquor. Air drawn into the blowers is
compressed, and then discharged through dedicated headers to the fine bubble
diffusers. Each of the three channels in the ASTs is 450 ft long with a surface water
depth of 17 feet.
Flow exiting the ASTs is collected in an effluent channel that flows to the SST inlet
channel. This SST inlet channel runs along all eighteen rectangular SSTs to distribute
flow. Each SST has plastic flight and chain sludge collectors that send sludge to a
centralized return activated sludge (RAS) pump station consisting of a wet well and four
mixed flow pumps. Secondary effluent leaving the SSTs flows in the secondary effluent
channel that runs along all eighteen SSTs. This secondary effluent then flows by gravity
to the Chlorine Contact Tank (CCT) and/or to the Advanced Water Purification Facility
(AWPF) lift pump station wet well.
When flow exiting the SSTs is greater than 50 mgd, a portion of the flow is diverted and
flows by gravity to two equalization basins (EQ Basin). Each EQ Basin is 2.5 million
gallons. When peak flows subside, secondary effluent stored in the EQ basins is
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET 10/11/2018 F-6
[Page 102]
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER R4-2018-0140
OXNARD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054097
pumped by three vertical mixed flow pumps out of the basins to the CCTs. The EQ
basins are also routinely used to balance daily flow and stabilize effluent pump operation
4. Effluent Disinfection: Secondary effluent leaving the SSTs and/or EQ Basin flows by
gravity or is pumped through a 48-inch secondary effluent line that discharges to the inlet
of the CCT adjacent to the Administration Building. The OWTP has two three-pass
CCTs. Each pass is 145 feet long. Chlorination using sodium hypochlorite and
dechlorination using sodium bisulfite are the final liquid treatment processes at the
OWTP. Chlorine contact tanks slow the flow and allow time for disinfection to occur
before the chlorine residual is removed by adding sodium bisulfite solution. The reaction
between the chlorine residual and sodium bisulfite is essentially immediate. Sodium
hypochlorite is added at the secondary clarifier effluent channel located in the north area
process tankage, upstream of the EQ basins. Sodium bisulfite is added to the
chlorinated effluent at the CCT discharge end prior to final ocean disposal. Secondary
uses for sodium hypochlorite in the plant include odor control at the influent manholes
and at the secondary effluent feed tie-in to the AWPF.
5. Effluent Pump Station and Outfall: The effluent pump station and outfall dispose
treated wastewater to the ocean. The system includes in-plant conveyance piping, a
pump station with two engine driven pumps, two electric motor variable frequency drive
(VFD) pumps, one additional motor driven pump and an outfall. The two engine driven
pumps and two VFD pumps are located at the effluent pump station, while the one motor
driven pump is located at the effluent end of the CCT. Typically, the motor driven pump
is used during low flow conditions while the engine driven pumps are only used for peak
flows.
The OWTP has a 6,800-foot outfall that was constructed around 1963 and modified in
1978. It discharges OWTP effluent into the Pacific Ocean through multi-port diffusers
offshore of Ormond Beach. It has a capacity of 50 mgd.
6. Oil and Grease Program: Although the City is no longer providing oil & grease
collection services, the City (Source Control) staff still conduct oil & grease inspection for
all grease interceptors within the City collection area. Businesses are contracting with
private haulers for oil & grease removal.
7. Solids Handling: The solids handling facilities at the OWTP consist of two gravity
thickeners for primary sludge thickening, two dissolved air flotation thickeners (DAFTs)
for waste activated sludge (WAS) thickening, three anaerobic digesters, and four belt
filter presses (BFPs) for dewatering. Primary sludge and scum is pumped from the
primary clarifiers to the gravity thickeners. The sludge feed is combined at the thickener
feed junction box and discharged to the thickener influent well where it is evenly
distributed to prevent short circuiting. Polymer is added to this sludge stream. The
purpose of the gravity thickeners is to reduce the liquid content in the primary sludge
sent to the digesters. WAS from the secondary clarifiers is pumped from the RAS/WAS
pump stations to the DAFTs where polymer is used to improve the separation of the
solids from the liquid in the WAS flow. The DAFTs utilize fine air bubbles to float the
sludge particles to the surface, where it is then scraped off. Volume reduction from WAS
thickening benefits the sludge digestion and dewatering processes by reducing the
volume of sludge to be processed, quantity of chemicals required for sludge conditioning,
and amount of heat required for digestion. The thickened solids are pumped to the
digesters. The main purpose of anaerobic digestion is to biologically decompose organic
material in primary and secondary scum and sludge to a stable form in compliance with
regulatory requirements for final disposal. Anaerobic digestion also reduces the amount
of solids to dewater, reduces the volume of sludge cake that is hauled to the landfill,
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET 10/11/2018 F-7
[Page 103]
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER R4-2018-0140
OXNARD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054097
reduces pathogens in the sludge and produces digester gas that is high in methane and
useful for fueling other equipment. The solids dewatering facility consists of the belt filter
press (BFP) process in the Solids Processing Building east of the digesters. The BFP
system is designed to concentrate the anaerobically digested sludge from a solids
content of less than 3 percent to a range of 18 to 20 percent. Polymer is mixed with
digested sludge upstream of the BFPs to promote flocculation and solids capture so that
the solids will concentrate into cake form. BFP sludge cake is conveyed to hauling
trucks for transport to an offsite landfill.
8. Water Reclamation: A portion of secondary effluent flows to the AWPF for advanced
treatment that includes microfiltration (MF), reverse osmosis (RO), and
ultraviolet/advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP). As previously mentioned, the AWPF
finished water is produced for reuse and future recharge. Presently, the AWPF has
equipment to produce 6.25 mgd of finished water. The MF backwash wastewater is
returned to the OWTP's headworks, and the design flow of 1.55 MGD RO brine is
commingled with the OTWP’s secondary-treated effluent and discharged to the Pacific
Ocean.
Recycled water is currently being distributed for non-potable Title 22 uses, primarily
irrigation. The Discharger is seeking approval for a recycled water program that will
inject advanced tertiary treated recycled water for later withdrawal and distribution for

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Wastewater effluent sampling location modification – In 2015 the City of Oxnard
began taking samples at EFF-001B in accordance with the NPDES Permit No.
CA0054097, Order No. R4-2013-0094. Previously, effluent samples were taken at the
Chlorine Contact Tank Location (EFF-001A). The new effluent sampling location (EFF-
001B) consists of a mixing tank where proportionate sample flow from secondary effluent
and Reverse Osmosis (RO) concentrate from the Advanced Water Purification Facility
(AWPF) are blended. Violations of BOD and elevated bacteria counts have been traced
to regrowth in the sample tubing between the last chlorination point in OWTS and the
sampling point. Due to this problem, this Order allows a separate sampling point for
Biochemical Oxygen Demand, bacteria and TSS, as requested by the Discharger on
June 9, 2017, at EFF-001A.
2. Operation of the Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) – In 2015, the City
began delivering recycled water from its AWPF for recycled uses. Depending on the
demand for recycled