[Page 104]
1. The Discharger owns and operates the Facility. The treatment system consists
of bar screening, aerated grit removal, primary clarification, bio-filtration,
activated sludge, secondary clarification, flow equalization, chlorine disinfection,
and dechlorination. Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment
processes include screenings, grit, primary sludge and skimmings, thickened
waste activated sludge. The fine solids (screenings and grit) which are primarily
inorganic materials are hauled away to a landfill. The remaining solid fractions
(primary sludge, skimmings, and thickened waste activated sludge) are
anaerobically digested at the treatment plant. In addition, the Discharger
operates the oil and grease program through which it cleans interceptors for
food establishments and uses the oil and grease in its digesters to increase
methane production. The methane is then used to generate electricity, which
occupies approximately 60% of total electricity uses, for the Facility. The
digested solids are dewatered using belt filter presses. The dewatered cake
contains approximately 20% solids (Class B biosolids). Oxnard generates
approximately 500 wet tons of Class B biosolids per week. The biosolids are
managed by composting operations in Kern County. Wastewater is discharged
from Discharge Point No. 001 (see Table on cover page) to the Pacific Ocean
off Ormond Beach, a water of the United States. Attachment B provides a map
of the area around the facility. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the
Facility.
2. The Facility serves a population of approximately 220,000 in the City of Oxnard,
the City of Port Hu

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is constructing the site and installing the devices at this site to
deliver 6.25 MGD of high quality recycled water to users for the Groundwater
Recovery Enhancement and Treatment (GREAT) Program. This recycled water is
product of secondary-treated wastewater further processed through microfiltration,
ultrafiltration, reverse osmosis, ultraviolet-light-based advanced oxidation. These
new facilities may have a marginal impact on the quality of the wastewater being
discharged into the Pacific Ocean.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities.
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA)
a