[Page 1]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s Report of Waste Discharge
(ROWD), amendments to the ROWD, and other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The unincorporated community of Willow Creek does not currently have
centralized wastewater collection, treatment and disposal; all residences and
businesses rely solely on individual septic systems for wastewater treatment and
disposal. Many of these septic systems are in disrepair and threaten water quality
and public health. The Willow Creek downtown businesses are located along the
Highway 299 and Highway 96 corridors, within the project boundaries. The
Discharger proposes to provide centralized collection, treatment and disposal of
wastewater to downtown businesses and residences within the project boundaries.
The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on January 4,
2016, which proposed centralized wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
[Page 2]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 - February 8, 2024
Willow Creek Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1-2024-0005
for the Willow Creek community. Additional information to complete the ROWD
was received from GHD on January 19, 2021. The ROWD was deemed complete
on January 19, 2021.
The project will include installation of private sewer laterals, collection system
piping and installation of the wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. Treated
effluent will be disposed to a leach field located adjacent to the Facility. The Facility
will serve approximately 103 residential and commercial connections within the
community. The Facility will serve the 1,700-person community's downtown
sanitary needs. The Facility has a design average daily dry weather flow (ADDWF)
of 0.038 mgd and a design peak daily wet weather flow (PDWWF) of 0.114 mgd.
The project will include construction of centralized septic tanks for solids removal
and Orenco Advantex textile media secondary treatment and denitrification. No
bulk high-strength waste or other trucked waste will be accepted into the Facility.
The collection system will consist of new individual private laterals and new sewer
piping with 2 lift stations. Both lift stations will have backup power. The leach field
is located adjacent to the Facility and is approximately 900 feet south of the Trinity
River. Solids generated during wastewater collection and treatment will be
disposed of at a permitted landfill.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a site map of the Facility, with service area and leach field. Attachment C
provides a Facility design layout. Attachment D provides a Facility flow schematic.
Attachment E is the Monitoring and Reporting Program.
C. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article
4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with section 13260) of the California Water
Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 1

===PLANNED CHANGES===

