[Page 69]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Town of Samoa is located on the Samoa Peninsula in Humboldt County, California.
Currently, wastewater within the Town of Samoa originates from 93 occupied residences,
the Samoa Cookhouse Restaurant, a post office, hostelry, museum, the Samoa Woman’s
Club, and the Samoa Elementary School. Wastewater from these sources flows into one
of three wastewater collection treatment and disposal systems: the Eastern System,
Western System, and School System. The School System’s wastewater will be connected
to the new wastewater treatment plant during Phase One of the upgrade project.
The Eastern System serves the majority of the town, including the Samoa Cookhouse
Restaurant, Samoa Woman’s Club, hostelry, and 68 of the occupied residences. The
Eastern System currently consists of three septic tanks and two bark filters (the bark filters
are no longer operational) distributed in the collection system that discharge into an
equalization and treatment pond. The pond is followed by a percolation basin located in
near the ridge top on the western edge of Humboldt Bay, just north of the Western side of
the Samoa Bridge. The discharge of this system is to the Humboldt Bay watershed.
The Western System serves approximately 25 occupied residences on the west side of
the ridge line of the peninsula. The Western System discharges through a 15,000 gallon
septic tank to a leach-trench system in the sand dunes north west of New Navy Base
Road. The discharge from this system is to the Pacific Ocean watershed.
The Permittees are planning a three-phased development project as described in the
Town of Samoa Master Plan (Master Plan) to reconfigure existing property lines to provide
a variety of land uses including additional single-family residential and mult

[Page 70]
On March 3, 2020, the Permittees submitted a new Facility design that no longer
includes the equalization pond and the pre-anoxic pond. To provide flow
equalization for the new Facility, five 50,000-gallon fiberglass settling tanks are to
be installed and operated in series. Wastewater treatment provided by the pre-
anoxic pond specified in the original design will now occur in two 50,000-gallon
pre-anoxic tanks, where primary treated effluent will be blended with recirculated
filtered effluent from the AX-Max filtration units to provide denitrification. Orenco
Bio-tube filters will be attached to the outlets of the settling tanks to further
remove solids prior to wastewater entering the pre-anoxic tanks.
Secondary treatment is performed using Orenco AX-Max textile filtration units as
proposed in the original design. The UV disinfection system has been upgraded
from the UV Pure Hallett 30 to the UV Pure Hallett 1000 for longer lamp life and
larger system capacity.
Biosolids Management
Sludge generated during the treatment process will be pumped and hauled to a
dewatering facility to be combined with biosolids from other municipal facilities
and dewatered. Dried biosolids will be hauled from the dewatering facility to a
Class B landfill for disposal.
In addition to the treatment system discussed above, an alternative treatment
system is being proposed to provide treatment for towns on the Samoa Peninsula
that include Fairhaven and Finntown. This alternative system would replace the
current treatment system but retain the current system to use as a back-up under
certain circumstances.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Seco

===PLANNED CHANGES===

