[Page 106]
2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The current Facility provides advanced wastewater treatment (AWT) and has design
capacities of 2.25 mgd as an average dry weather flow (ADWF) and 7.2 mgd as a
peak weekly wet weather flow. The wastewater treatment facilities include biological
secondary treatment utilizing extended air activated sludge aeration basins and
secondary clarifiers; AWT that includes chemical addition facilities, flocculation
tanks, AWT clarifiers, and sand filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; and storage prior
to water recycling, discharge to the Geysers recharge pipeline, and/or discharge to
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 107]
Order No. R1-2020-0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345
Mark West Creek. A portion of the treated and UV disinfected effluent is chlorinated
and transferred to Windsor High School for toilet flushing and landscape irrigation.
3. Effluent Storage
Advanced treated, UV disinfected effluent is discharged to effluent storage ponds
prior to distribution to the water reclamation system or to Mark West Creek. The
Permittee owns and operates six tertiary effluent storage ponds that provide 143.8
million gallons of storage capacity and two additional ponds that provide an added
20.2 million gallons of high flow storage volume when influent flows exceed the
treatment capacity of the treatment plant. This combined storage volume of 164
million gallon is designed to handle an ADWF of up to 1.9 mgd.
During the term of this permit, the Permittee plans to develop and implement a Joint
Use Program with the Airport-Larkfield-Wikiup Sanitation Zone (ALWSZ)

[Page 108]
5. Sludge and Biosolids Handling
Sludge is generated at the Facility in the AWT process. The Permittee’s sludge
facilities include two sludge ponds, an auxiliary sludge pond, and a sludge decant
tank. The two sludge ponds provide 11.9 million gallons of sludge stabilization and
storage capacity. A third pond, that currently provides 6.4 million gallons of effluent
storage, will be converted to a sludge stabilization pond in the future. Within the
ponds, sludge concentrates to a higher solids content and volatile suspended solids
are degraded. Surface aerators are used for odor control. The sludge decant tank
provides temporary holding and equalization capacity during sludge processing.
Sludge can be pumped from outlets in the floor of the tank to dewatering units or to
trucks. The tank is equipped with a floating decanter for removing supernatant that
may accumulate on the surface. Sludge is typically pumped out of these ponds on
an annual basis and hauled by an outside contractor to a site for beneficial land
application of biosolids. The land application site is outside of this Regional Water
Board’s jurisdiction. The outside contractor manages the biosolids land application
permit requirements in Regional Water Boards 2 and 5 on behalf of the Permittee.
Solids and screenings from the headworks are currently disposed of at a municipal
solid waste landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located within the Mark West Hydrologic Subarea of the Russian
River Hydrologic Unit.
2. Advanced treated wastewater that is not recycled may be discharged directly from
the treatment system or from the effluent storage pond system at Discharge Point
002 to Mark West Creek, a water of the United States, during the allowed discharge
period from October 1 to May 14.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 109]
Order No. R1-2020-0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345
Lower Mark West Creek is part of the Laguna de Santa Rosa watershed2 and is
tributary to the Russian River. The rate of discharge is governed by flow

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee conducted a study to identify projects to accommodate future growth,
comply with regulatory requirements, and maintain the operational condition of the
Facility. Based on the study recommendations, the Permittee is planning to implement
the following planned changes during the permit term:
1. Implement a Water Reclamation Facility (WRF) Influent Wet Well Screen Project to
add a new influent wet well screen upstream of the influent pumps and replace the
existing headworks grit classifier.
2. Replacement or rehabilitation of the existing headworks screen and washer-
compactor in 2022.
3. Rehabilitation and replacement of the existing aeration basin equipment in 2020.
The Permittee is also planning to develop and implement a Joint Use Program with the
ALWSZ, Sonoma County Water Agency, and City of Santa Rosa to enable transfer of
effluent and reuse and distribution of recycled water from the tertiary storage ponds
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-10
[Page 112]
Order No. R1-2020-0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345
owned by the agencies to maximize recycling and minimize surface water discharges.
The transfers of disinfected tertiary recycled water may occur between the Permittee
and ALWSZ, Sonoma County Water Agency, and/or City of Santa Rosa’s tertiary
storage ponds and the Permittee’s recycled water distribution system. This Order
requires the Permittee to submit a report to the Regional Water Board Executive Officer
for approval that must include the final design details and operational modifications
required for implementation of the Joint Use Program. The report includes
documentation of California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) compliance, recycled
wa