[Page 121]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility
and provides sewerage service to a population of approximately 237,800 residential,
commercial, and institutional customers. The Permittee provides wastewater treatment and
disposal services for residences, businesses, and industries within the Santa Rosa area
and provides service to the cities of Cotati, Rohnert Park, Sebastopol, and South Park
County Sanitation District, an unincorporated area of Sonoma County. The Facility accepts
wastewater, septic waste, landfill leachate, and high strength wastes (primarily grease and
food production wastes) from the surrounding communities.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Collection System
The Permittee’s collection system consists of 582 miles of gravity sewers ranging in
size from 4 to 66 inches, 6.3 miles of pressure sewers, and 17 pumping stations. In
addition to the wastewater collection system owned and operated by the Permittee,
satellite wastewater collection systems individually owned, operated, and maintained
by the cities of Cotati, Rohnert Park, and Sebastopol convey wastewater from those
communities to the Facilit

[Page 121]
2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 21.3 mgd, a peak
weekly wet weather flow of 64 mgd, and a peak monthly wet weather flow of 47.3
mgd of advanced treated wastewater. The treatment system consists of grit removal
in aerated grit chambers, sludge and scum removal in primary sedimentation tanks,
biological secondary treatment (activated sludge) with alum coagulation, flocculation,
and clarification followed by tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Advanced treated effluent is discharged to an effluent storage pond system prior to
discharge to the water reclamation system or the surface water discharge system.
The pond system consists of Brown Pond; Meadow Lane Ponds A, B, C, and D; and
Delta Pond. The combined maximum capacity of the existing storage ponds is 1,650
million gallons. The storage ponds allow the Permittee to control the timing, location,
and volume of discharge to protect beneficial uses of the receiving water and
provide a source of recycled water during the discharge prohibition period.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 122]
Order No. R1-2020-0012
City of Santa Rosa
NPDES No. CA0022764
From October 1 through May 14, treated wastewater is permitted to be discharged
through D

[Page 122]
Sonoma Water’s Airport Larkfield Wikiup Sanitation Zone (ALWSZ) occasionally
transfers recycled water to the Permittee’s system upon approval from the
Permittee. This water is used to meet recycled water demands north of Delta Pond.
The water from ALWSZ is not stored in recycled water ponds from which discharge
occurs and is used for irrigation only.
3. Biosolids Management
Biosolids generated during the treatment process are thickened, anaerobically
digested, dewatered using belt filters and polymer addition, and beneficially used as
soil amendment on City-owned property as well as privately owned property. All land
applications sites are properly permitted under the statewide general order for land
application of biosolids.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 123]
Order No. R1-2020-0012
City of Santa Rosa
NPDES No. CA0022764
As part of its Permittee’s Biosolids Management System, the Permittee also
produces Class A compost during the winter and spring months when land
application cannot take place due to wet weather conditions.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located within the Guerneville Hydrologic Subarea of the Russian
River Hydrologic Unit.
2. Advanced treated wastewater is discharged from the storage pond system to Santa
Rosa Creek, an unnamed ditch tributary to the Laguna de Santa Rosa, and the
Laguna de Santa Rosa, waters of the United States, all tributary to the Russian
River, during the allowed discharge period from October 1 to May 14. The rate of
discharge is governed by flow conditions in the Russian River monitored at
Hacienda Bridge and is limited to five percent of the flow of the Russi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee anticipates completing numerous projects during the upcoming permit
term. The Permittee plans to construct an on-site diversion system to allow non-
compliant effluent from the UV system to be diverted to a dedicated storage pond and
replace the outdated UV disinfection system with new UV disinfection system. This
Order includes a compliance schedule for completion of the UV disinfection system due
to the fact that this upgrade is critical to ensuring consistent compliance with total
coliform effluent limitations for the use of recycled water that is necessary for the
protection of public health. Additional projects include completing phase two of the
primary treatment super-structure upgrade project, replacing the primary influent pump
drives, design of a flood wall at the treatment plant, making repairs to the roofs of
digesters one and two, replacing the waste gas flare, rehabilitating digesters three and
four, replacing the emergency generator fuel tank, completing phase two of the
refurbishment of the filter valves and actuators, evaluating and seismically retrofitting
the chemical building, upgrading the recycled water distribution system to fill Delta Pond
from the Geysers pipeline, improving the Delta Pond diffuser, and completing slope
protection on the levees of Meadow Lane Ponds C and D, and Delta Pond.
The Facility currently has design treatment capacities of 21.34 mgd (average dry
weather flow), 64 mgd (peak weekly wet weather flow), and 47.3 mgd (peak monthly
wet weather flow). Order No. R1-2013-0001 includes a discussion of future plant
expansion, disposal, and reuse projects that could lead to increased flows from the
Facility. These projects include the Laguna Plant Upgrade Project, Geyse