[Page 3]
2019. The ROWD was deemed complete on June 17, 2019.
The project will include replacement of the collection systems and replacement of
the wastewater treatment facilities with an upgraded wastewater treatment facility.
Treated effluent will be disposed by leach field beds located adjacent to the Trinity
River on land managed by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (U.S. BOR). The
Facility will serve approximately 253 residential and commercial connections
within the community of Lewiston. The design population is 649 people. The
Facility has a design average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 0.04 mgd and a design
peak wet weather flow (PWWF) of 0.160 mgd.
The project will include wastewater service to private parcels, as well as local,
state, and federally owned parcels. The percolation beds by the Trinity River are
located on land managed by the U.S. BOR. The emergency retention basin and
sludge storage basins are located on land managed by the U.S. BLM. Copies of
the Right-of-Way and License agreements for both the U.S. BOR and U.S. BLM
are on file and available upon request.
The project to consolidate and upgrade the facilities will include replacing the
collection systems for the former LPMWC and TDMHP in their entirety, portions of
the LCSD (formerly LVMWC) collection system, and LCSD lateral pipelines made
of Orangeburg pipe, a pipe material made of wood pulp and sealed with coal tar
and that is long past its useful life, and those that are failing on private property.
The existing suspended pipeline over the Trinity River will be replaced. The
existing LCSD (formerly LPMWC) wastewater treatment facility will be replaced
with an Aero-Mod activated sludge facility. Lift Station 1 and 2 will be
decommissioned, and a new lift station (TDBLS) will be constructed to convey all
wastewater from the former LVMWC and TDMHP to the new LCSD wastewater
treatment facility. The existing LCSD oxidation ponds will be repurposed for use
as an emergency effluent retention basin. The former LPMWC percolation beds
will be reconstructed into eight leach field beds. The leach field beds are located
approximately 75 feet north of the Trinity River.
[Page 4]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 5 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1-2020-0024
Aerobically digested sludge will be dried in four drying beds at the LCSD
wastewater treatment facility and disposed of at a permitted landfill.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a map of the Facility, effluent pipeline and leach fields. Attachment C
provides a design Facility layout. Attachment D provides a Facility flow schematic.
Attachment E is the Monitoring and Reporting Program.
Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for discharges to
land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code).
C. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are

[Page 5]
2. Wastewater—Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leach fields if the following
conditions are met:
[Page 6]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 7 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1-2020-0024
a. the applicable Regional Water Board has issued WDRs, reclamation
requirements, or waived such issuance;
b. the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan;
and
c. the wastewater does not need to be managed according to, Califo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

