[Page 112]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates the TIWRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant located at 445
Ferry Street, San Pedro, California, approximately 20 miles south of downtown Los Angeles.
Attachment B shows the location of the Plant. The Facility was originally built in 1935 with a
treatment process comprised of preliminary and primary treatment and the effluent was discharged
to the Los Angeles Inner Harbor. TIWRP was upgraded to secondary treatment employing an
activated sludge process in 1977, and further upgraded to tertiary treatment in 1996. The Outfall
Discharge Serial No. 001 located at the Los Angeles Outer Harbor was complete in August 1996.
Operation of the tertiary wastewater treatment plant began in January 1997. A new effluent
monitoring station, which captures the combined flows of the tertiary-treated effluent and the brine
waste discharge from the TIWRP’s AWPF to the Harbor via Discharge Point 001 was constructed
and completed in July 2008. Attachment C depicts the current schematic of the Plant wastewater
flows. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility.
The TIWRP currently receives wastewater from San Pedro, Wilmington, and Harbor City areas.
The wastewater is a mixture of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. The TIWRP has a design capacity of 30 mgd and serves an
estimated population of 142,000 people.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 06/11/15, Amended: 10/08/15) F-6
[Page 113]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2015-0119
TERMINAL ISLAND WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053856
The TIWRP has two bypass points: one for primary effluent and the other for secondary effluent.
The primary effluent bypass point is operated by a valve and has never been used since it was put
in service in 1977. The secondary bypass has been used several times since the filter facility was
put into service in January 1997. The secondary effluent can be automatically overflowed to the
filtered effluent discharge channel if the filter influent pumps are inoperable or overloaded. The
latest unfiltered secondary effluent discharged into the Harbor was on August 26, 2004.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Treatment at the TIWRP consists of wastewater processing, advanced wastewater treatment
processing, and biosolids processing. The process flow diagram of the TIWRP is depicted in
Attachment C.
1. Wastewater Processing - consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and aerated
grit removal), primary treatment (primary sedimentation), secondary treatment
(secondary clarification and activated sludge biological treatment), tertiary treatment
(effluent filtration). Under normal operating conditions, the discharge of the tertiary-
treated effluent to the Harbor is not chlorinated.
a. Preliminary Treatment – Removes coarse solids (by bar screening), sand and silt
(by grit removal system) from wastewater.
b. Primary Sedimentation – Removes solids from the wastewater by gravity. The
heavier solids settle and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin. The
lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids remain in
suspension.
d. Activated Sludge Biological Treatment – Activated sludge consists of
microorganisms that consume non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants
which form a settleable floc.
c. Secondary Clarification – Removes biological floc from the wastewater which then
mostly becomes part of the waste sludge. Chemicals such as aluminum sulfate
(alum) may be added as part of the treatment process to encourage floc formation
and enhance solids removal.
e. Tertiary Treatment – The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended
or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through a bed of
graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the secondary
sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the disinfection efficiency
and reliability.
2. Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) Processing – includes microfiltration,
reverse osmosis, and disinfection.
a. Microfiltration – Tertiary treated wastewater is pretreated with sodium hypochlorite
to prevent biofouling and then fed into automatic self-cleaning 500-micron
strainers. The wastewater flow is then split into two parallel trains, each containing
five parallel Memcor microfiltration units. The microfiltration units are periodically
backwashed to clean the membranes and that backwash is sent back to TIWRP’s
headworks for reprocessing.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 06/11/15, Amended: 10/08/15) F-7
[Page 114]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2015-0119
TERMINAL ISLAND WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053856
b. Reverse Osmosis (RO) – Prior to entering the RO process train, the pH of the
treated water from the microfiltration units may need to be adjusted with sulfuric
acid to protect the RO filters from deterioration. The microfiltration filtrate is then
fed into two separate RO process trains. Each RO process train has two stages in
series and use thin-filmed membranes.
c. Disinfection – A sodium hypochlorite (chlorine) contact basin has been designed to
provide a contact time (CT) of 450 mg/L-min with a modal contact time of at least
150 minutes for a flow of 5 mgd RO treated water. The treated water from the RO
units is disinfected prior to being injected into the Dominguez Gap Seawater
Intrusion Barrier or any other permitted use.
3. Biosolids Processing –
a. Land Application – Sludge may be thickened, anaerobically digested, dewatered,
and hauled to either the City’s Green Acres Farm located at Kern County for land
application or to a contracted site in Arizona for composting and land application at
various locations in Arizona and California.
b. Renewable Energy Project - In 2008, the City and GeoEnvironment Technologies
started the experimental TIRE project at the Terminal Island Water Reclamation
Plant. TIRE is an innovative technology to convert biosolids into energy by
deep well injection and geothermal biodegradation. The US EPA permitted the
project as an ex

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As part of the City of Los Angeles’ plan to phase out the discharge of final effluent to the Los
Angeles Harbor by 2020 (with minor exceptions), the Advanced Water Purification Facility
(AWPF) is undergoing an expansion to increase capacity from 5 mgd product water to about
12 mgd. The recycled water from the AWPF may be injected into the Dominguez Gap
Seawater Intrusion Barrier to eliminate the need to import potable water for the project. The
recycled water generated at the expanded AWPF may also be used to improve the
ecosystem of Machado Lake. The expansion project also includes construction of a new
advanced oxidation process for disinfection of the recycled water before it is reused. Once
the project is complete, a brine-dominated effluent may be discharged to the harbor. The
expansion project is scheduled to be completed in 2017.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as W