[Page 2]
III. DESCRIPTION OF FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS
1. The City owns and operates the TITP, a publicly owned treatment work (POTW).
The TITP is located at 445 Ferry Street, San Pedro, California, approximately 20
miles south of downtown Los Angeles. Figure P1 shows the vicinity map for the
TITP. The Plant was originally built in 1935 with a treatment process comprised of
preliminary treatment and primary treatment with the effluent discharged into the
Harbor. TITP was upgraded to secondary treatment employing an activated sludge
process in 1977, and further upgraded to tertiary treatment in 1996. The start-up
operation at the tertiary wastewater treatment process began in January 1997. TITP
has an average dry weather design treatment capacity of 30 million gallons per day
(mgd) and peak wet weather design flow capacity of 50 mgd. For the last seven
years (1997 to 2004), sewage flow to the Plant averaged approximately 17 mgd.
The Plant discharge of tertiary treated municipal wastewater to the Harbor averaged
approximately 16 mgd for the same period.
2. Discharge to the Harbor is also subject to the State Water Resources Control
Board’s (State Board) Enclosed Bays and Estuaries Policy established in 1974,
which requires POTW discharges to enclosed bays and estuaries to cease at the
earliest practicable date. (The Los Angeles Harbor has been defined as an enclosed
bay. See Finding 15.) On June 27, 1977, this Regional Board issued Order No. 77-
113 requiring the City to phase out the TITP discharge to the Harbor at the earliest
practicable date or demonstrate that the discharge enhances the quality of the
receiving water. The City opted for the latter approach but was not successful in
demonstrating that the TITP effluent enhances the water quality in the Harbor. On
November 25, 1985, this Regional Board issued Order No 85-77, requiring the City
to cease the TITP discharge to the Harbor at the earliest practicable date.
Additionally, on October 31, 1994, the Regional Board issued the Resolution No. 94-
009 to approve the proposal by the City to phase out the discharge of tertiary-treated
wastewater effluent from the TITP into the Harbor through implementation of a water
recycling plan.
3. Treatment at the TITP consists of wastewater processing, advanced wastewater
treatment processing, and biosolids processing. Figure P2 depicts the schematics of
the TITP wastewater flow.
F-3
[Page 3]
City of Los Angeles CA0053856
Terminal Island Treatment Plant Order No. R4-2005-0024
Waste Discharge Requirements Fact Sheet
A. Wastewater Processing - consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and
aerated grit removal), primary treatment (primary sedimentation), secondary
treatment (secondary clarification and activated sludge biological treatment),
tertiary treatment (effluent filtration). Under normal operating conditions, the
discharge of the tertiary-treated effluent to the Harbor is not chlorinated.
a. Preliminary treatment – The main objective of preliminary treatment is to
remove coarse solids (by bar screening), sand and silt (by grit removal
system) from wastewater.
b. Primary sedimentation - The main objective of primary sedimentation is
to remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids
(settleable solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary
sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed
off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
c. Secondary clarification - The main objective of secondary
sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater.
Chemicals, such as aluminum sulfate (alum), may be added as part of the
treatment process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological
floc to combine into larger clumps (coagulate). This makes it easier to
remove the floc.
d. Activated sludge biological treatment - Activated sludge converts non-
settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc, which
can then be removed from the wastewater with further treatment.
e. Tertiary treatment - The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water
through a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that
the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability.
B. Advanced Treatment Processing – includes microfiltration and reverse
osmosis.
a. Microfiltration - Tertiary treated wastewater is fed into automatic self
cleaning 500-micron strainers and then the wastewater flow is split into
two parallel trains. Each train contains five parallel Memcor microfiltration
units. The microfiltration units are periodically backwashed to clean the
membranes. The backwash is sent back to TITP’s headworks for
reprocessing. The microfiltration water is reclaimed for irrigation,
industrial, and recreational use in accordance with other Water Recycling
Requirements.
b. Reverse Osmosis (RO)- The microfiltration filtrate is fed into two
separate RO process trains. Each RO process train has two stages in
series and use thin-filmed membranes. The RO water is chlorinated prior
to being transported via pipeline and injected into the ground, under
F-4
[Page 4]
City of Los Angeles CA0053856
Terminal Island Treatment Plant Order No. R4-2005-0024
Waste Discharge Requirements Fact Sheet
separate Water Recycling Requirements contained in Order No. R4-
2003-0134, adopted on October 2, 2003. The RO water is injected into
the Dominguez Gap Barrier Project to control seawater intrusion. This
discharge is located at Latitude 33o 44’ 34” and Longitude 118o 15’ 36”.
In addition, this water is recycled for irrigation, industrial, and recreational
use in accordance with other Water Recycling Requirements contained in
Order No. R4-2003-0025, adopted on January 30, 2003.
c. Disinfection: A sodium hypochlorite (chlorine) contact basin has been
designed to provide a contact time (CT) value of 450 mg/L-min with a
modal contact time of at least 150 minutes for a flow of 5 mgd RO treated
water.
The brine waste stream generated from the AWTF is allowed to be
discharged into the Harbor. Sodium bisulfate is added to neutralize any
chlorine added to the brine prior to discharge to the Los Angeles Harbor.
C. Biosolids Processing – Sludge is thickened, anaerobically digested, dewatered,
and hauled to Kern County for land application and reused as soil amendment.
4. The TITP treats the wastewater generated from industries in the Harbor area and
serves approximately 130,000 people in the San Pedro, Wilmington, and Harbor City
areas. Flow to the TITP consists of domestic, commercial and industrial wastewater.
Industrial wastewater sources are from the fish processing industries, petroleum
industries, and docking and storage facilities. For Fiscal Year 2003, industrial
wastewater represented approximately 60% of the total flow to the plant. Raw
wastewater reaches the TITP through a series of pumping plants and force mains.
5. The USEPA and the Regional Bo

[Page 4]
8. Water Recycling Facility - The Harbor Water Recycling Project – Dominguez Gap
Barrier Project, adopted on October 2, 2003, is permitted to inject up to 5 mgd
F-5
[Page 5]
City of Los Angeles CA0053856
Terminal Island Treatment Plant Order No. R4-2005-0024
Waste Discharge Requirements Fact Sheet
recycled water, produced at the TITP’s Advanced Wastewater Treatment Facility
(AWTF), to Dominguez Gap to prevent seawater intrusion. The Harbor Water
Recycling Project – Nonpotable Reuse Project, adopted on January 30, 2003, is
permitted to use the recycled water for irrigation, industrial, and recreational uses.
These two projects are being undertaken by the City to comply with Regional Board
Resolution No. 94-009 to ultimately phase out discharge of the tertiary-treated
wastewater into the Harbor.
Pursuant to Provisions 4a and 4b of Resolution No. 94-009 adopted on October 31,
1994, the discharge of wastewater effluent from TITP into the Harbor must be
phased out at the earliest practicable date through implementation of a water
recycling plan (by installing tertiary treatment facilities, reverse osmosis, pumps, and
a distribution network) to provide recycled water to industrial and commercial users.
The following represent the City’s milestones for phase-out discharge:
A. The tertiary treatment facilities were installed at the TITP in 1996 and start-up
operation at the tertiary wastewater treatment process began in January 1997.
B. The AWTF was installed at the TITP in January 1998 and completed in August
2001. The test of the AWTF system was finished in June 2002. An estimated
6.75 mgd is treated by RO, generating an estimated 1.75 mgd of brine water
for discharge through the existing outfall Serial No. 001 into the Harbor.
Approximately 5 mgd of RO treated water is permitted to be delivered to the
City’s Department of Water and Power Harbor Generating Station and the
County’s Dominguez Gap salt water intrusion barrier. This usage is anticipated
to double in six years. Total reuse of the TITP effluent is projected by 2020.
C. A recycled water pump station, equipped with three pumps with constant speed
drivers, was built for the Harbor Water Recycling Project (HWRP) - Phase I in
November of 1999 and completed in May of 2001. The pump station is
designed to pump 5 mgd with two pumps operating and the other pump on
stand-by. Additional recycled water pumps will be installed for future HWRP
Phases II and III.
D. The HWRP-Phase I recycled water transmission pipeline constructed on April
26, 1999 consists of approximately 18,000 linear feet of 36-inch and 24-inch
diameter ductile iron and steel pipeline. The distribution lateral to the Barrier is
a 12-inch diameter pipe. The completion of the last reach of pipeline (Phase III)
occurred in June of 2002.
9. Storm Water Management - The City collects storm water runoff at the TITP and
directs it to a lift station where it is pumped to the facility headworks for treatment.
On July 22, 1993, the City filed a Notice of Intent, and currently implements a Storm
Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to comply with the State Board’s General
NPDES permit NO. CAS000001 and Waste Discharge Requirements for Discharges
of Storm Water Associated with Industrial Activities (Order No. 97-03-DWQ). The
discharge of storm water runoff is regulated under Order No. 9

===PLANNED CHANGES===

