[Page 109]
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Treatment at the TIWRP consists of wastewater processing, advanced wastewater
treatment processing, and biosolids processing. Attachment B depicts the
schematics of the TIWRP wastewater flow.
1. Wastewater Processing - consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and
aerated grit removal), primary treatment (primary sedimentation), secondary
treatment (secondary clarification and activated sludge biological treatment),
tertiary treatment (effluent filtration). Under normal operating conditions, the
discharge of the tertiary-treated effluent to the Harbor is not chlorinated.
a. Preliminary treatment – The main objective of preliminary treatment is to
remove coarse solids (by bar screening), sand and silt (by grit removal
system) from wastewater.
b. Primary sedimentation – The main objective of primary sedimentation is to
remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids
(settleable solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary
sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed
off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
c. Secondary clarification – The main objective of secondary sedimentation
is to remove biological floc from the wastewater. Chemicals, such as
aluminum sulfate (alum), may be added as part of the treatment process
to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological floc to combine
into larger clumps (coagulate). This makes it easier to remove the floc.
d. Activated sludge biological treatment – Activated sludge converts non-
settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc, which
can then be removed from the wastewater with further treatment.
e. Tertiary treatment – The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water
through a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that
the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability.
2. Advanced Wastewater Treatment Facility (AWTF) Processing – includes
microfiltration, reverse osmosis and disinfection.
a. Microfiltration – Tertiary treated wastewater is fed into automatic self
cleaning 500-micron strainers and then the wastewater flow is split into
two parallel trains. Each train contains five parallel Memcor microfiltration
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 110]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER NO. R4-2010-0071
TERMINAL ISLAND WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053856
units. The microfiltration units are periodically backwashed to clean the
membranes. The backwash is sent back to TIWRP’s headworks for
reprocessing.
b. Reverse Osmosis (RO) – The microfiltration filtrate is fed into two separate
RO process trains. Each RO process train has two stages in series and
use thin-filmed membranes. The RO water is chlorinated prior to being
transported for two projects under separate Water Recycling
Requirements. The Harbor Water Recycling Project (HWRP) –
Dominguez Gap Barrier Project (Order No. R4-2003-0134), adopted on
October 2, 2003, was permitted to inject up to 54 mgd recycled water to
Dominguez Gap Barrier (Barrier) to prevent seawater intrusion. The RO
water is injected into the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

