[Page 1]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s application for permit renewal,
monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous Order, and
other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The City of Yreka (hereinafter Discharger) owns and operates facilities for the
collection, treatment and disposal of municipal wastewater from the city of Yreka.
These facilities consist of a collection system, pumping stations, screening,
activated sludge secondary treatment, aerobic sludge digestion, clarification,
filtration and disinfection by chlorination. The wastewater treatment facility
(Facility) was originally constructed in 1972 and is located at the north end of the
City, as shown on Attachments A, B and C, incorporated herein and made part of
this Order. Treated and disinfected effluent is pumped to four percolation ponds
and to approximately 22.4-acre subsurface drip disposal fields located north of the
Facility and adjacent to Yreka Creek. Treated effluent flows under approximately
1.0 mgd discharge to the subsurface drip disposal fields; treated effluent flows
over 1.0 mgd discharge to both the subsurface drip disposal fields and the
[Page 2]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
City of Yreka CSD WWTF
Order No. R1-2021-0016
percolation ponds. The four percolation ponds are used primarily during high flow
periods to accommodate larger effluent flows, while the subsurface drip disposal
fields are used primarily during summertime low flow periods. The subsurface drip
disposal fields were designed to accommodate up to 1.3 mgd of treated effluent
disposal. Aerobically digested sludge is pumped to a centrifuge for mechanical
dewatering and final disposal at a permitted landfill.
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 1.0 mgd and a
design peak wet weather flow (PWWF) of 6.8 mgd. The Discharger submitted a
complete Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on March 30, 2018. Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. R1-2003-0047, adopted by the
Regional Water Board on May 15, 2003, are currently in effect for the Facility.
Norcal Products is a categorical

===PLANNED CHANGES===

