[Page 122]
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.71 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 3.5 mgd of disinfected tertiary treated wastewater.
The treatment system consists of coarse screening and aerated grit removal,
aeration, biological nutrient removal (BNR), secondary clarification, tertiary
filtration, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
The headworks consists of two screens with 0.25-inch mesh for solids removal,
one Parshall flume for flow measurement, and an 8,560 gallon aerated grit
removal basin. The design flow capacity of the headworks screen system is 5.5
mgd.
Two of three aeration basins are operated in parallel and complete mix modes.
Wastewater moves by gravity from the headworks, combines with return
activated sludge, and is routed into a split structure. The mixed liquor is split by
weirs and runs into the two aeration basins through 12-inch pipelines. The
combined volume of the two aeration basins is 0.8 million gallons.
In 2014, the Permittee completed the Biological Nutrient Removal project in the
activated sludge facilities. The BNR process utilizes activated sludge biomass
for nitrification, denitrification, and enhanced biological phosphorus removal in
two BNR units. The activated sludge process is followed by clarification where
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 123]
Russian River County Sanitation District June 17, 2021
and Sonoma Water Order R1-2021-0002
Russian River Wastewater Treatment Facility NPDES NO. CA0024058
solids biomass and liquids are separated by sedimentation. Three clarifiers are
utilized to remove solids from the mixed liquor suspension and produce a clear
effluent. The combined flow of all three clarifiers is 3.5 mgd.
Clarified secondary effluent flows by gravity to the tertiary filters and UV
disinfection system. Two tertiary filters operate (with one in service and one on
standby) under a vacuum and use cloth media disk filtration technology
featuring PA-13 nylon pile fabric. The capacity of each filter is 3.7 mgd, for a
total of 7.4 mgd filtration capacity.
Disinfection is accomplished with a UV disinfection system capable of
disinfecting flows up to 3.7 mgd. The infrastructure of the previous chlorine
disinfection system, replaced by the UV disinfection system in October 2012,
remains available for emergencies.
2.1.3. Effluent Storage
Tertiary treated effluent not meeting permit limits for turbidity or UV
transmittance is automatically diverted to a 1 million gallon Emergency Holding
Pond for retreatment. Fully treated effluent is placed in a 3.5 million gallon
Effluent Storage Pond (or Holding Pond) prior to discharge to the Russian River
or to the recycled water/land disposal system. During discharge to the Russian
River, a control valve is used to adjust the flow from the Effluent Storage Pond
through the Russian River Outfall line. The bottom of the effluent storage pond
is at 39.0 feet elevation, while 0 feet of freeboard is at 57.0 feet elevation. To
protect the pond from failure, an emergency overflow is set at 56.0 feet
elevation. The effluent storage pond overflow pipe connects with the Russian
River Outfall line after the control valve, but prior to the Russian River Outfall
meter.
During periods of high influent flow, influent can be diverted to the 1 million
gallon Emergency Holding Pond, or to the third aeration basin, which provides
additional storage capacity of 0.4 million gallons during high flow events.
2.1.4. Recycled Water and Land Disposal
From May 15 through September 30, when discharges to the Russian River are
prohibited, disinfected tertiary recycled water is used for irrigation of the
Northwood Golf Course, located south of the Facility and on the opposite side
of the Russian River. An avera

[Page 124]
2.1.5. Biosolids Management
The majority of the biosolids generated during the treatment process are
transferred back to the aeration basins as return activated sludge (RAS).
The remainder of the biosolids is dewatered by belt press to 15 percent solids
or greater and transported to a municipal landfill by a contractor.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The Facility is located within the Guerneville Hydrologic Subarea within the
Lower Russian River Hydrologic Area.
2.2.2. Treated and disinfected effluent is typically discharged to the effluent storage
pond at Discharge Point 001 prior to discharge to the Russian River at
Discharge Point 002, distribution to the Northwoods Golf Course for water
recycling at Discharge Point 004, or disposal to the Burch property at Discharge
Point 003.
2.2.3. Disinfected tertiary treated wastewater is discharged from the Effluent Storage
Pond at Discharge Point 002 to the Russian River, a water of the United States,
during the allowed discharge period from October 1 to May 14. The Permittee
may occasionally elect to discharge directly to the Russian River at Discharge
Point 005 without utilizing the storage pond, such as when the storage pond
requires maintenance or operational adjustments to ensure ongoing permit
compliance. The rate of discharge is governed by flow conditions in the Russian
River monitored at Hacienda Bridge and is limited to one percent of the flow of
the Russian River. The average effluent discharge flow rate to the Russian
River during the last six years was 0.626 mgd.
2.2.4. During the dry weather season from Ma

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Over the current permit term, many projects have been completed as part of
ongoing maintenance and improvements. The most significant projects completed
at the WWTF include installing the BNR system; rehabilitating one tertiary filter
and replacing the second tertiary filter; upgrading the grit pumps; replacing the
“redwood” control tank; installing flow metering prior to the tertiary filters; installing
flow metering on the filter backwash; replacing the diesel day tank for the
emergency generator; replacing the spiral rag washers at the headworks;
replacing the main electrical circuit breaker; replacing the polymer injection for the
sludge belt press and replacing the upper irrigation motor control center and
pumps.
Projects that the Permittee anticipates completing during the term of this Order
include installing an influent flow magmeter; clarifier seismic retrofit, replacing the
waste activated sludge (WAS) pumps, replacing the effluent pumps and installing
a magmeter on the mixed liquor pipeline, and improving the sludge and grit
loading area. The Permittee also has long-term capital improvement plan (CIP)
projects that are anticipated to take more than five years to complete, including
headworks and lift station improvements, collection system improvements, and
force main replacement as further discussed in Fact Sheet section 2.1.1. The
initiation and timing of these projects is contingent on available funding.
No other modifications or operational changes that will cause a material change in
the volume or quality of discharges from the Facility have been identified for the
term of this