[Page 101]
Monitoring Location EFF-003, after treated wastewater has passed through the
enhancement wetlands and prior to contact with receiving water.
The Facility includes primary treatment at the headworks building, an enhanced
extended aeration activated sludge treatment process with nutrient removal,
ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection, followed by enhanced effluent treatment and
storage within the enhancement wetlands. The Facility is sized and constructed to
provide the current required treatment capacity and accommodate anticipated
population growth through 2025. Although treatment components of the Facility
have been designed to accommodate higher flows, the Permittee has only
requested a permitted discharge of an average monthly flow up to 4.0 mgd.
Primary treatment is provided in a two-story headworks building and influent pump
station. Influent to the Facility is directed to the influent pump station wet well
chamber below the first level of the headworks building. Influent from the wet well
chamber is measured by magnetic meters at INF-001. The wet well chamber has
four pumps and removes floatables with a pre-rotation process. The two larger
pumps (38.9 horsepower (HP) each) can pump up to 2,430 gallons per minute
(gpm). The two smaller pumps (25.4 HP each) can pump up to 1,215 gpm.
Wastewater in the wet well is pumped through two screw conveyed inclined
screens to the second story. Solids removed by the inclined screens are conveyed
by chutes and bagged for disposal by Solids Waste Services. Wastewater from
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 102]
CITY OF WILLITS ORDER R1-2021-0021
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0023060
the inclined screens is directed to a grit removal and classification chamber. The
grit classifier is supplied by two alternating 15 HP pumps rated at 300 gpm. Solids
from the grit removal process are collected in a bin on the first level and disposed
of as municipal solid waste. The headworks treatment processes are sized to
handle a future peak influent flow capacity of 10 mgd.
Primary treated wastewater exceeding the secondary treatment capacity is
diverted by a secondary influent splitter box to the first of five storm equalization
ponds located on the south end of the Facility property. Flow entering the
equalization basins is measured at INF-002. The equalization ponds have a
combined total capacity of approximately 16 million gallons. Pond No. 1 is lined
with concrete, while the remaining ponds are lined with impermeable clay liners.
During periods of wet weather, influent flows that exceed the capacity of the
Facility are directed into Pond No. 1. When Pond No. 1 has reached capacity,
excess wastewater flows over a weir into Pond No. 2, leaving behind any
settleable solids as it skims the wastewater off the top. When Pond No. 2 reaches
capacity, wastewater flows into Pond No. 3 via a pipe set at the bottom of the
pond, which removes floatables as they remain at the top. Wastewater is piped
from Pond No. 3 to Pond Nos. 4 and 5 as required by wet weather flows. Flow
between each of the ponds is controlled by gravity. When influent flows to the
Facility drop below the treatment capacity, wastewater from Pond No. 1 can be
directed back to the headworks through a pipe in the northeast corner of the pond.
Flows re-entering the headworks are measured at INF-003. A one-way flow
restrictor between Pond Nos. 1 and 2 opens as the flow reverses and allows water
from the ponds to be redirected from the ponds to the headworks.
Septage is received at the Facility from septage haulers who discharge into a
solids separator and diverted directly into the solids handing portion of the WWTF.
Liquids separated from the processing of solids are held in the aerobic digester
then returned for treatment to the headworks.
The extended aeration system provides efficient biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) and nutrient removal. A long solids retention time in the extended aeration
system provides process stability and, due to the large quantity of biological solids
present, wide swings in organic and hydraulic loads can be handled without
adjustments to the process or equipment. The extended aeration system produces
well digested and stabilized biomass. The extended aeration system is designed
for a peak hydraulic capacity of 7.0 mgd.
Each of the two aeration basins contains eight diffuser chains. The air to each
diffuser chain is individually controlled by a motorized valve which operates on a
timed cycle during denitrification mode. When diffuser chains are turned off,
anoxic zones are created to promote denitrification. Of the eight diffuser chains in
each basin, six operate as part of the timed cycle with three chains on and three
off.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 103]
CITY OF WILLITS ORDER R1-2021-0021
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0023060
The two basins are 134 feet wide at grade and 150 feet in length, measured at the
top of the berm, providing a combined volume of 2.437 million gallons. The basins
are lined with a polypropylene reinforced geomembrane with a minimum thickness
of 60 millimeters (mm).
The two circular clarifiers are 70 feet diameter by 14 feet deep tanks constructed
of concrete. The combined capacity of the two clarifiers is 7.0 mgd. At a peak flow
of 7.0 mgd, the overflow rate of the clarifiers is 1,099 gallons per day per square
foot (gpd/SF). The three-screw centrifugal return activated sludge (RAS) pumps
have a capacity of 1,250 gpm each, with a maximum return rate of 3.6 mgd. Two
pumps are operated at all times while one is reserved for backup. The RAS pumps
are located adjacent to the clarifiers. A 4-inch pump conveys waste activated
sludge (WAS) to the aerobic digester.
The UV disinfection system is designed to achieve a median total coliform
organism concentration of less than 23 most probable number per 100 milliliters
(MPN/100 mL) and a daily maximum concentration of 230 MPN/100 mL. The
delivered dose is a function of the clarity of the water or the UV transmissivity
(UVT). The design of the system conservatively assumes transmissivity of 55
percent. The UV disinfection system is sized to handle capacities as low as 0.35
mgd and as great as 7.0 mgd.
Following disinfection, effluent is discharged into an enhancement wetland for
further treatment. The enhancement wetland is located on a 40-acre parcel owned
by the Permittee located immediately east of the Facility on the east side of Outlet
Creek. The enhancement wetland consists of approximately 30 acres of free water
surface, with the remaining acreage set aside for potential wetland and floodplain
mitigation and an Outlet Creek setback zone. The wetland consists of three cells;
each planted with a variety of wetland species and operated at a normal operating
depth of one to two feet. The wetland is lined with clay soils. The exterior berms
surrounding the cells are approximately eight to 10 feet tall and the interior berms
are 6 feet tall. The Permittee provides for approximately three feet of active
storage above the normal operating depth providing approximately 90 acre-feet
(ac-ft) of active storage and buffering prior to discharge to Outlet Creek. An
additional 90 ac-ft of storage (three-foot depth) above the active storage volume is
available for use during critical discharge periods to help reduce potential
discharge violations, provide capacity for future growth, and provide another layer
of redundancy and reliability. Each cell in the enhancement wetland is stepped
down approximately two feet from south to north. Flow between the cells is
controlled by a series of weir structures.
From October 1 through May 14 each year, treated wastewater from the
enhancement wetland may be discharged to Outlet Creek at Discharge Point 003,
which is located at the north end of the wetland. The discharge from the wetland
passes through a slide gate with a motor actuated operator to a 30-inch outfall
pipe. The outfall pipe incorporates flow metering to provide control of the outfall
discharge proportional to the measured flow in Outlet Creek, allowing the Facility
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 104]
CITY OF WILLITS ORDER R1-2021-0021
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0023060
to achieve compliance with the permit provision prohibiting discharge in excess of
10 percent of the creek flow. The outfall pipe consists of approximately 600 feet of
30-inch pipe, a metering vault, and a concrete outfall structure located at the
creek.
From May 15 through September 30 and any other time seasonally appropriate,
treated wastewater is recycled for spray irrigation of near-by and adjacent
pastureland at Discharge Point 004. The irrigation pump station includes vertical
turbine pumps located in a rectangular reinforced concrete wet well. The wet well
is connected to the last cell of the enhancement wetland though a weir designed
to maintain a minimum depth of 1.5 feet in the wetland to ensure optimum aquatic
plant survival conditions. The pumps can be operated manually and automatically.
A 36-inch rotary fan press is used for the dewatering and drying process and
mechanically separates liquids and solids, producing dewatered biosolids at solids
content of 15 to 18 percent. The rotary fan press is capable of dewatering at a
maximum rate of 40 gpm. The effluent from the rotary fan press is pumped into a
30 cubic yard dump box. Solids from the dump box dump into a containment area
and are then transferred to the composting area. Supernate from the dump box is
piped to the headworks.
Composting is achieved through a three-step process including mixing,
composting and curing, and storage. Dewatered biosolids are mixed with wood
chips or sawdust at a 1:1 ratio by a front-end loader on a paved area east of and
adjacent to the northernmost equalization basin. After approximately one month of
residence time, the mixture is moved to a compost pile where it continues to dry
and composting begins. The compost pile is turned each month and is allowed to
compost for six to 12 months. The compost mixture is then moved to a storage
pile and allowed to cure for at least a year. The finished compost is then land
applied on Field 4, an 18-acre agricultural parcel owned by the Permittee and
located immediately west of the Facility, as a Class B biosolid. Compost is applied
to approximately one-third of the parcel (six acres) each year. The section
receiving compost is fenced to prohibit access by grazing livestock during the
early portion of the growing season. The Permittee has requested to expand the
biosolids application area to include Fields 1, an 104-acre agricultural parcel, Field
2, a 19-acre agricultural parcel, and Field 3, an 125-acre agricultural parcel, all
owned by the Permittee and located north of the Facility.
2.2. Discharge Points and Rece

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee has requested to expand their biosolids disposal area to include:
Field 1, a 103.5 acre parcel (Pump Field); Field 2 (the Long 20 field) a 19.8 acre
field; and Field 3, a 125.3 acre field northwest of the Wastewater Treatment Plant
Facility. These fields are currently used as part of the irrigation area during the
summer months.
In addition, the Permittee plans to upsize their 4” PVC line that transports irrigation
water to Field 4 to 6”. When