[Page 1]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s application for permit renewal,
monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous Order, and
other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The Happy Camp Sanitary District (hereinafter Discharger) owns and operates
facilities for the collection, treatment, and disposal of municipal wastewater from
the town of Happy Camp. These facilities were completed in 1979, and consist of
a collection system, pumping stations, force main, comminutor, three clay-lined
aerated lagoons for secondary treatment and two effluent percolation ponds. The
wastewater treatment facility (Facility) is located west of the Klamath River as
shown on Attachments A, B and C in the Proposed Order. Treated effluent is
pumped to two percolation ponds located south of the Facility and approximately
800 feet west of the Klamath River.
[Page 2]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1-2022-0011
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 0.32 mgd and a
Peak Wet Weather Flow (PWWF) of 0.48 mgd. The two percolation ponds are
approximately three-acres in size and are used year-round. The percolation
ponds are designed to accommodate up to 0.32 mgd of treated effluent disposal.
The three aerated lagoons total one and one-half acres. The Discharger submitted
a Form 200 and a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on January 3, 2022.
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 98-2, adopted by the Regional Water
Board on May 15, 2003, are currently in effect for the Facility. The Discharger has
applied to the State Water Resources Control Board Division of Financial
Assistance for grant funds for upgrades a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

