[Page 90]
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1.4 mgd and a
maximum peak wet weather flow of 4.0 mgd. The treatment system consists of
influent screening and grit removal; biological removal of biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) and nitrogen in aerobic, anoxic, and pre-anoxic basins;
microfiltration through a membrane bioreactor (MBR); ultraviolet (UV) light
disinfection; and return activated sludge pumping from the MBR back to the
aeration basins. Waste activated sludge pumping removes excessive biomass
from the system, followed by a proprietary sludge digestion process, dewatering
via centrifuge, and disposal to a Class III solid waste landfill.
The MBR combines the secondary biological treatment and immersed
membrane filtration processes. The immersed membrane filtration process
separates suspended solids from the wastewater using a very fine filter (i.e.,
ultrafilter). The MBR system at the Facility consists of five membrane tanks
which contain immersed membrane filters with a total filter area of at least
250,000 square feet. The MBR system is designed to treat a peak daily flow of
4.0 mgd in four tanks with a fifth membrane tank, pump, and compressor
available for standby capacity. Instantaneous peak inflows may exceed 4.0 mgd,
and the headworks structure is sized to accommodate peak inflow spikes up to
9.6 mgd.
Disinfection is achieved in an open channel UV disinfection system with
sufficient low pressure/high output lamps to disinfect a peak daily flow of 4.0
mgd. The UV disinfection system is located downstream of the MBR tanks. The
MBR filtrate pumps discharge directly to the UV basin. Filtered and UV
disinfected wastewater flows by gravity to the 25 million gallon recycled water
storage pond, 15 million gallon recycled water storage pond, or Basalt Pond.
The Facility includes a 5 million gallon aerated influent equalization basin and a
3.35 million gallon equalization basin, which provides equalization storage
capacity for extended wet weather flows and plant return flows. The Permittee
has the ability to divert inadequately treated wastewater from downstream of the
UV disinfection system and return it to the headworks for re-treatment.
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected tertiary recycled water. The Facility has two
recycled water storage ponds, 25 million gallon and 15 million gallon capacity,
with synthetic liners to provide storage for the disinfected tertiary treated
recycled water and delivery it to authorized recycled water users. Recycled
water is delivered by an effluent pump station from the recycled water storage
pond to the recycled water system or is gravity fed to the Basalt Pond,
depending upon seasonal requirements.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 91]
CITY OF HEALDSBURG ORDER R1-2022-0017
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0025135
The Permittee has 41,300 linear feet of pipeline to deliver recycled water for
agricultural, industrial, and construction uses. Approximately 1,170 acres of
vineyards are directly connected to the pipeline. Additionally, the Permittee
operates two filling stations for the trucked recycled water program. Trucked
recycled water is used for construction uses (primarily soil compaction and dust
control), non-dairy livestock drinking water, and landscape and vineyard
irrigation, consistent with agronomic demand. Irrigation occurs primarily during
spring, summer, and fall and may occur during dry periods in the winter. The
filling stations are located at 340 Foreman Lane and 280 Kinley Lane. Syar
Industries, Inc., operates its own recycled water hydrant at 13666 Healdsburg
Avenue. The hydrant is used to fill Syar water trucks for dust control at the
aggregate processing facility. Additionally, Syar Industries Inc. has installed a
pipeline on its property to utilize recycled water for washing the aggregate
materials used in asphalt and concrete production.
This Order includes requirements for the production of recycled water at the
Facility. The use of recycled water from the Facility is covered separately under
State Water Resources Control Board Order No. WQ 2016-0068-DWQ, General
Waste Discharge Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Recycled Water
General Order), and any subsequent revision thereof.
2.1.4. Biosolids
The Permittee uses a proprietary solids removal and digestion process that
combines aerobic and anaerobic processes. Solids are periodically removed
from the biological process and transferred to two digester tanks, referred to as
interchange reactors. Transfer to the interchange reactors occurs in a daily
decant/fill process, where decanted clear liquid from the interchange reactors is
returned to the biological process, and the volume decanted is replaced with
solids from the biological process. All solids transferred from the biological
process to the interchange tanks are first passed through a 250 micron rotary
drum screen to remove inert non-biodegradable material, which is compacted
and conveyed to a separate dumpster. In the final solids removal step, digested
solids are pumped from the interchange reactor tanks, dosed with polymer for
thickening, and then dewatered in a centrifuge and conveyed to a dumpster. All
solids are then transported for disposal at Redwood Landfill in Marin County or
Hay Road Landfill in Solano County.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. During the discharge season (October 1 through May 14), wastewater may be
discharged to Basalt Pond at Discharge Point 001 (38° 34’ 48” N latitude and
122° 51’ 48” W longitude), which is hydraulically connected to the Russian River
in the Geyserville Hydrologic Subarea within the Russian River Hydrologic Unit.
Basalt Pond is one of several existing gravel pits that were excavated adjacent
to the Russian River in alluvial deposits of sand and gravel. These deposits are
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 92]
CITY OF HEALDSBURG ORDER R1-2022-0017
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0025135
part of an important groundwater aquifer that supplies domestic and agricultural
well water. Basalt Pond has a surface area of 52 acres, and a maximum depth
of 55 feet. Basalt Pond was excavated between the late 1960s and mid-1980s
by the Basalt Rock Company, as part of their gravel mining operation. Basalt
Pond is currently owned by Syar Industries Inc. Basalt Pond was excavated in
the historic floodplain of the Russian River, and a levee, composed primarily of
soil and alluvial material, was constructed to separate Basalt Pond from surface
flows in the Russian River. The levee is not an engineered barrier designed for
impermeability that would prevent discharges of effluent from reaching the
Russian River. Flooding in February 2019 resulted in a significant breach of the
levee between Basalt Pond and the Russian River, resulting in a direct surface
water connection between them. Corrective actions related to the levee breach
are currently under development by Syar Industries under the conditions of their
Mine Reclamation Plan as required by the use permit issued by the County of
Sonoma under the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMARA). The final
configuration between Basalt Pond and the Russian River are unknown at this
time.
Even prior to the breach between Basalt Pond and the Russian River, it was
determined that the discharge of wastewater to Basalt Pond, part of the Russian
River, is a discharge to waters of the United States, and as such requires an
NPDES permit. In an August 6, 2007, decision, the United States Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California that concluded that Basalt Pond is a water of the
United States subject to jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act (CWA) and that
the pollutants traveling to the Russian River via hydrologically connected
groundwater required the Permittee to obtain an NPDES permit. The Ninth
Circuit Court held that discharges to Basalt Pond are subject to the CWA
because the Basalt Pond (1) contains wetlands that are adjacent to the Russian
River, a navigable water of the United States, and (2) possesses a significant
nexus to the Russian River because waters from the Basalt Pond seep into the
Russian River and significantly affect the physical, biological, and chemical
integrity of the Russian River. (Northern Calif. River Watch v. Healdsburg, 497
F.3d 993 (2007)). Additional details of the District Court decision can be found in
Revised Order No. R1-2005-0084 (January 17, 2008). See additional discussion
in Table F-3, Footnote 1.
2.2.2. From May 15 through September 30

===PLANNED CHANGES===

