[Page 94]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
facility that serves a population of approximately 46,583 from the City of Eureka and
unincorporated areas within the Humboldt Community Services District. The Facility
treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater as well as treated groundwater
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 95]
CITY OF EUREKA ORDER R1-2023-0016
ELK RIVER WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0024449
from remediation projects and septage from local area haulers. The Facility is located at
4301 Hilfiker Lane in Eureka, Humboldt County, California.
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. Collection System
Wastewater is conveyed to the Facility through an extensive sanitary sewer
system consisting of 125 miles of sewer mains, 9,500 service laterals, 17 lift
stations, 3 pump stations, interceptor lines, collection lines, and manholes. The
system collects and conveys over 1.5 billion gallons of wastewater per year,
including infiltration and inflow (I&I).
Excessive I&I to the collection system has historically contributed to
exceedances of the Facility’s hydraulic capacity, resulting in the Facility
bypassing secondary treatment when influent flows exceed the trickling filter
capacity, and blending primary treated effluent with secondary treated effluent in
the storage pond. This practice is prohibited in the current permit but is
addressed in the compliance schedule included as section 6.3.6.2 of this Order.
Furthermore, the Permittee must continue to implement their Wet Weather
Improvement Plan to reduce unnecessary flows to the Facility through identified
methods, including repairing older, leaking manholes, mains, and laterals and
removing abandoned laterals and manholes to prevent future I&I entering the
system from these areas.
The Facility also accepts and treats septage from local area haulers.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment System
The Facility has an average dry weather treatment capacity of 5.24 mgd, a peak
dry weather treatment capacity of 8.6 mgd, and a peak wet weather secondary
treatment capacity of 12 mgd. Wastewater entering the facility undergoes
primary treatment with mechanical bar screens, grit removal, and primary
clarification. Biological secondary treatment is accomplished using two trickling
filters, followed by secondary clarification, and chlorine disinfection. The
chlorinated effluent is stored in a holding pond then dechlorinated and
discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Humboldt Bay in conjunction with ebb tide
cycles.
During periods of high flows, excess treated wastewater from the effluent
holding pond can be directed to the 13-acre freshwater holding marsh (Overflow
Marsh) and pumped back to the effluent holding pond once flows subside. The
Overflow Marsh is a component of the Facility, as described in the “Final
Environmental Impact Report – Wastewater Management Plan for the Greater
Eureka Area” (July 10, 1980), and as established in Waste Discharge
Requirements Order No. 81-1 adopted for the Facility by the Regional Water
Board on January 22, 1981.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 96]
CITY OF EUREKA ORDER R1-2023-0016
ELK RIVER WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0024449
Solids are treated by anaerobic digestion and may be processed on site using a
centrifuge or stored in one of two facultative sludge lagoons.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Effluent is discharged at Discharge Point 001 via an outfall structure consisting of
a 48-inch diameter pipe, 4,100 feet in length, and equipped with a multiple
discharge port diffuser. Effluent is discharged in conjunction with ebb tides at
Discharge Point 001 into Humboldt Bay at 40° 46’ 24” N latitude and 124° 12’ 45”
W longitude. Humboldt Bay, an e

[Page 97]
Area 1 and Area 2;
· Area 1 is located North of the Elk River and South of the Facility. Area 1
is approximately 25 acres of degraded inter-tidal wetland that will be
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 98]
CITY OF EUREKA ORDER R1-2023-0016
ELK RIVER WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0024449
restored by removing the riverfront levee and tide gate infrastructure, and
excavating slough channels, integrating salt marsh plains, and public
access via extension of the City’s Waterfront Trail. A map of Area 1 can
be found in the Permittee’s Project Proposal in Attachment A;
· Area 2 is approximately 89 acres located south of the Elk River. It is
comprised of agricultural ditches, pasture, and degraded seasonal
wetlands. The area is separated from the Elk River on the north side by a
natural windblown sand formation, parallel to Elk River Slough.
Construction of a rock seawall and the railroad infrastructure on the west
side has isolated Area 2 from Humboldt Bay. Most of Area 2 is drained
by a network of linear agricultural ditches and there is no freshwater
inflow. Area 2 will be converted to an inter-tidal wetland with a network of
tidal slough channels. The channel area will be contained by tidal ridges
(living shorelines) that will host riparian habitat as well as public access
trails;
· Creation of public access via land and water through the development of
a 0.2-mile Coastal Access Trail on the western edge and a kayak launch
on the northern side of Area 1;
· Creation of an interpretive center that cou

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Consistent with Order No. R1-2016-0001, this Order prohibits the discharge of
wastewater that does not receive full biological secondary treatment. The 2014
Effluent Discharge Study committed to implementing a long-term, sustainable
approach to limiting infiltration and inflow through projects like collection system
improvements, trickling filter pump station rehabilitation, and primary diversion
overflow weir improvements.
In addition to these collection and treatment system improvements, Order No. R1-
2016-0001 required the Permittee to conduct an inspection of the outfall structure
and diffuser ports. The Permittee developed Ocean Outfall Evaluation, Elk River
Wastewater Treatment Plant (dated June 30, 2021) which includes an evaluat