[Page 1]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (Regional
Water Board) finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed
the requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Discharger’s previous application for permit renewal, monitoring data submitted
during the term of the Discharger’s previous order, and other available
information.
B. Background and Facility Description. The Hopland PUD (hereinafter
Discharger) is currently discharging pursuant to Waste Discharge Requirements
Order No. R1-2008-0003.The renewal of these waste discharge requirements is
for the Hopland PUD WWTF (Facility). The Facility has a design ADWF of
90,000 gpd and AWWF of 100,000 gpd.
The Discharger owns wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilities
serving approximately 290 domestic and commercial connections within
Hopland in Mendocino County. The Discharger has a service contract with
Willow County Water District for operations and maintenance.
The wastewater collection system was originally constructed in 1975 and
consists of approximately 19,000 feet of 8-inch vitrified clay sewer pipe, 3,000
feet of 4-inch cast iron force main, and two lift stations. The Facility consists of
[Page 2]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Hopland PUD WWTF
WDR Order No. R1-2023-0013
three aerated lagoons, a facultative treatment pond, chlorine disinfection unit,
and two percolation ponds. Disposal in the ponds is accomplished by a
combination of evaporation and percolation. The percolation ponds are located
approximately 250 feet to the southwest of Feliz Creek and 600 feet to the west
of the Russian River on the east side of Highway 101 in an agricultural and rural
setting within the town of Hopland.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) for discharges to land issued pursuant to section

[Page 4]
2. Any activity that produces a waste and discharges to existing high quality
waters will be required to meet WDRs that will result in the best practicable
treatment or control of the discharge necessary to assure pollution or
nuisance will not occur, and the highest water quality consistent with the
maximum benefit to the people of the state will be maintained.
This Order allows discharge to groundwater considered high quality
groundwater for nitrogen, Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), and coliform organisms
and designated for domestic and municipal supply (MUN) in the Basin Plan.
This Order is consistent with Resolution No. 68-16 because implementation of
the Order will result in Best Practicable Treatment or Control2 of the discharge
and lead to a net benefit to water quality by providing a higher level of treatment
1 The Board interprets “high quality waters” as the best water quality that has existed
since the Policy was adopted in 1968 after considering any subsequently authorized
degradation that has been allowed in compliance with the Policy.
2 Learn about Effluent Guidelines | US EPA (https://www.epa.gov/eg/learn-about-effluent-
guidelines)
[Page 5]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 6 -
Hopland PUD WWTF
WDR Order No. R1-2023-0013
and control than individual septic systems, some of which are failing due to age
and poor site conditions.
Best Practicable Treatment and Control at this facility consists of a wastewater
collection system, treatment plant, and percolation ponds. Treatment will
consist of screening, biological oxidation and solids settling in aerated and
facultative ponds, and chlorine disinfection. Secondary treated effluent will be
conveyed alternately to two percolation ponds. The manner of waste treatment
and disposal are consistent with the manner of treatment and disposal at
similarly situated facilities. This Order contains discharge prohibitions, effluent
limitations, receiving water limitations, monitoring requirements, and a provision
to assess potential impacts to groundwater and surface waters and bring the
discharge into compliance with groundwater limitatio

===PLANNED CHANGES===

