[Page 89]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF)
and associated wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population
of approximately 350 users. The Facility was designed to serve a total of 1,200
users. The capacity was designed for the use of 650 residential customers, and an
additional 550 users to accommodate commercial and institutional customers.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 4
[Page 90]
COVELO CSD ORDER NO. R1-2023-0006
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0023574
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located approximately 35 miles northeast of Willits, California in
northeastern Mendocino County. Treated wastewater is discharged either to
Discharge Point 001 to Grist Creek or to Discharge Point 002 to the percolation
pond. Discharge to Grist Creek is limited to the discharge season of October 1
through May 14.
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.057 mgd,
average wet weather flow of 0.097 mgd, peak wet weather flow of 0.394 mgd,
and average annual flow of 0.077 mgd. The treatment system consists of a
headworks, two oxidation ponds, a treatment wetland, and ozone disinfection
system. Discharge occurs on an as needed basis. If the Facility does not
discharge, flow is recirculated (bypassing the disinfection unit) back to oxidation
pond one. During periods of discharge, flow is directed from the treatment
wetlands to the ozone disinfection unit. Following disinfection, the discharger can
direct effluent to Discharge Point 002 at any time of the year. During October 1
through May 14 discharge is permitted at Discharge Point 001, but discharge
only occurred during 3 months within the past two permit terms.
2.1.1. Collection System
The Permittee’s collection system collects wastewater from about 190
residential equivalent units (REUs) and 161 commercial REUs. Influent is
received from the gravity flow collection system at the influent well and pumped
to the headworks, which includes a horizontal grit channel and a spiral trash
screen. A septage receiving station was installed as part of an upgrade project
completed in 2011 that includes a rock trap, grinder, and mixing tank. However,
the septage receiving station is not currently used, as it is not operational and
in need of repair.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Facility’s two oxidation ponds are lined with high density polyethylene
(HDPE) liner system. The two oxidation ponds are operated in series and are
used to reduce biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids
(TSS).
Following the oxidation ponds, effluent is gravity fed to the treatment wetland
that is also lined with an HDPE liner system. The treatment wetland is divided
into two cells, which are planted with alternating submerged and emergent
vegetation. The wetland treatment cells are operated to further remove BOD
and TSS and provide for biological reduction of nitrogen compounds. Effluent
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 5
[Page 91]
COVELO CSD ORDER NO. R1-2023-0006
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0023574
from the treatment wetland is screened prior to entering the ozone treatment
system.
The ozone disinfection system consists of two ozone generators, an injection
system, an ozone destruction unit, and a multi-cell contact chamber. The
Permittee can provide tablet chlorination as a back-up disinfection system for
surface water discharges. When chlorination is necessary for surface water
discharges at Discharge Point 001, calcium hypochlorite tablets are added at
Discharge Manhole No. 1 and sodium sulfite tablets are added at Discharge
Manhole No. 2 for de-chlorination. When chlorination is necessary for land
discharges at Discharge Point 002, sodium hypochlorite tablets are added in
the discharge pipe.
During dry weather, the Permittee recirculates water through the treatment
system to maintain an adequate water level in the treatment wetland. During
the wet weather months, the Permittee discharges treated wastewater to a 5-
million-gallon, bentonite-lined percolation pond which discharges at Discharge
Point 002. As necessary, when influent flows exceed the treatment and storage
capacity of the Facility, the Discharger discharges treated wastewater to Grist
Creek below the confluence with Town Creek at Discharge Point 001.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The Covelo Community Services District is located within the Round Valley
Hydrologic Subarea o

[Page 93]
3. Maximum observed result.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 8
[Page 94]
COVELO CSD ORDER NO. R1-2023-0006
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0023574
2.4. Compliance Summary
The Permittee was not assessed any administrative civil liability during the term
of Order No. R1-2017-0004 since no discharge to surface water violations
occurred.
2.5.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee plans to install a septic receiving station to alleviate processing
demands on the treatment units. The Permittee is also pursuing grant funding to
upgrade the collection system, influent wet well, and headworks.
Covelo CSD was awarded a $750,000 NCRP Grant from the California
Department of Water Resources (DWR) that is being administered by Humboldt
County. The grant is allotted for the repair of three sections of the collection
system identified to be significant contributors to groundwater inflow. The second
component is construction of a roof cover for the disinfecting ozone unit.
Additionally, solar panels will be mounted to the roof structure to decrease the
energy footprint of Covelo CSD. The solar system is designed to be expandable,
which will allow for additional panels and wind generators as resources become
available. The upgrade was scheduled for completion in 2022 but has
experienced delays due to insufficient funds to meet contractor bids. The
Permittee is