[Page 96]
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 3.01 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 24.5 mgd of secondary treated wastewater, as well as
a peak wet weather flow of 7.0 mgd of advanced treated wastewater. The
Facility’s secondary treatment train consists of an influent wet well, bar screens,
aerated grit removal, primary clarifiers, trickling filters, aerated solids contact
tank, secondary clarifiers, and a chlorine contactor pipe where secondary
disinfection is performed using sodium hypochlorite. The Facility’s advanced
treatment train includes the addition of ferric chloride and polymer to adsorption
clarifiers and multi-media filters.
Advanced treated effluent is disinfected with sodium hypochlorite in the tertiary
chlorine contact basin and sent to the Recycled Water Storage Ponds for
distribution to recycled water users. When there is insufficient capacity in the
Recycled Water Storage Ponds, secondary effluent is disinfected with sodium
hypochlorite in the secondary chlorine contact basin and sent to the percolation
ponds for disposal. If there is insufficient capacity in the recycled water storage
ponds or the percolation ponds during the allowable discharge season (October
1 through May 14), the advanced treated effluent is dechlorinated with sodium
bisulfite and discharged to the Russian River.
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected tertiary recycled water. The Facility has
three recycled water storage ponds with synthetic liners to provide storage for
the disinfected tertiary treated recycled water and delivers it to authorized
recycled water users. Recycled water is delivered by a recycled water pump
station and transmission system to a recycled water fill station and metered
customers. Delivery of recycled water to users began in July 2019.
This Order includes requirements for the production of re

[Page 96]
2.1.4. Biosolids Management
Biosolids generated during the treatment process are reduced through
thickening in dissolved air flotation units followed by stabilization using
anaerobic digesters (mesothermic). Digested sludge is dewatered using a belt-
filter press. During the term of this permit, the belt-filter press is anticipated to be
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 97]
CITY OF UKIAH ORDER NO. R1-2024-0016
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0022888
replaced with a FKC Screw Press that can operate continuously (through
SCADA) that will reduce the pollutant loading of the pressate returned to the
headworks after biosolids treatment.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The Facility is located within the Ukiah Hydrologic Subarea within the Upper
Russian River Hydrologic Unit.
2.2.2. During the wet weather season (October 1 – May 14), effluent treated in
accordance with permit requirements in section 4.1 of the Order may be
discharged from the Facility via an outfall pipe at Discharge Po

[Page 100]
6. The number of coliform bacteria shall not exceed an MPN of 240 per 100 mL in more than one sample in any 30-day
period.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10
[Page 101]
CITY OF UKIAH ORDER NO. R1-2024-0016
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0022888
2.4. Compliance Summary
On November 16, 2021, the Regional Water Board invited the Discharger to enter
settlement negotiations prior to the Regional Water Board issuing an
administrative civil liability complaint (ACLC) for 72 violations of effluent limitations,
of which 58 violations were exempt due to interim effluent limitations set forth in
Cease and Desist Order No. R1-2012-0069 and Time Schedule Order No. R1-
2018-0051. The remaining 25 effluent violations were subject to minimum
mandatory penalties (MMPs) pursuant to Water Code section 13385(h) and (i).
These violations were for exceedances of ammonia, biochemical oxygen demand,
total coliform, copper, cyanide, total residual chlorine, and nitrate in Order Nos.
R1-2012-0068 and R1-2018-0035. The ACL Complaint assessed a penalty of
$75,000 for these violations. On December 21, 2022, the Executive Officer issued
a Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of ACL Order No. R1-2022-0042
and assessed $75,000 in total penalties. The Parties agree that the full $75,000 of
this administrative civil liability shall be permanently suspended pending
completion of the Compliance Project (CP). The CP consists of replacing the
Facility’s belt filter press with a screw press to enhance biosolids dewatering,
reduce maintenance time, and improve effluent quality at the Ukiah City WWTP.
The project is ongoing and is expected to be completed in Fall 2024.
2.5. Planned Changes
During the term of this Order, the Permittee anticipates completing constructing of
the Phase 4 projects related to their recycled water system This project will include
the installation of online analyzers and automatic actuation

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes to the Facility include SCADA/PLC upgrades to improve
communication and reliability of the Facility’s control system. This upgrade will
also allow for remote viewing of WWTP data and better protection against cyber
threats. Additional planned changes include the replacement of the belt filter press
with a FKC Screw Press, installation of a new Suspended Air Floatation (SAF)
system for solids treatment, and installation of a septage receiving station.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
Calif