[Page 74]
2. Treatment at the Whittier Narrows WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation,
inert media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The UV disinfection system has
been incorporated into a dual barrier disinfection system which includes application of
chlorine as free chlorine at a very low dosage upstream of the UV disinfection to
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (ADOPTED: 11/06/2014) F-4
[Page 75]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2014-0213
WHITTIER NARROWS WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053716
inactivate any virus that is not readily susceptible to UV, followed by UV disinfection to
inactivate any other pathogens that are more susceptible to UV. Since effluent that has
been disinfected using the UV process does not carry residual chlorine, a minimal
amount of chlorine is added to the UV-disinfected effluent to provide minimal residual
chlorine to reclaimed water supplied for direct reuse. Treated wastewater that is not
conveyed to direct reuse is dechlorinated prior to discharge in order to remove any
chlorine residual. Treated wastewater discharged to San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo is
dechlorinated.
3. Under normal operation conditions, sodium hypochlorite is used only in small dosages to
supplement the UV disinfection, as part of the dual barrier disinfection process described
under Item 2 above. Sodium hypochlorite may be added to the treated effluent prior to
the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, to minimize algal growth in the
filters, or may be added to provide minimal residual chlorine to reclaimed water supplied
for direct reuse. In the event of bypass or UV system failure, the Whittier Narrows WRP
may revert to using sodium hypochlorite for disinfection whereby disinfectant may be
dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact tanks. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite
is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
4. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal occurs, under Order No. R4-2011-0151 (NPDES No.
CA0053813). Attachment C is a schematic of the Whittier Narrows WRP wastewater
flow.
5. The Permittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with nitrogen de-
nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan
objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since September
2003.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Whittier Narrows WRP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial wastewater to
the San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo, waters of the United States, abo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Whittier Narrows WRP operated an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system as the primary
disinfection process during the entire year of 2012. Startup of the UV system took place on
September 17, 2011, and use of the UV system as the primary disinfection system at the
Whittier Narrows WRP commenced at that time. During 2012, the existing chloramination
system that had been used for disinfection prior to the UV system startup was operated in an
auxiliary capacity as part of a dual barrier disinfection system and also to provide residual
chlorine to the plant effluent. The installment of a UV disinfection system reduces the effluent
levels of the photosensitive constituent N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA).
There are no planned upgrades proposed by the Permittee.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapte