[Page 93]
1. Treatment at the Whittier Narrows WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, inert media filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. Treated
wastewater discharged to San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo is dechlorinated but the
effluent delivered for reuse is not dechlorinated.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted: June 4, 2009) F-4
[Page 94]
Joint Outfall System ORDER NO. R4-2009-0077
Whittier Narrows Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA0053716
2. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Whittier Narrows WRP. The
disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters.
Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact
chamber. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to
remove residual chlorine.
3. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids
separated from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to
JWPCP for treatment and disposal occurs, under Order No. R4-2006-0042 (NPDES
No. CA0053813. Attachment C is a schematic of the Whittier Narrows WRP
wastewater flow.
4. JOS has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with nitrogen de-
nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin
Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since
September 2003.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Whittier Narrows WRP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial
wastewater to the San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo, waters of the United States, abo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of upgrading the disinfection process at the Whittier
Narrows WRP to improve the quality of final effluent. The plant has historically used
chloramination for disinfection. With recent focus on the impacts from disinfection by-
products, implementation of an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system is being pursued,
which will reduce levels of disinfection by-products in the water produced by the plant.
The installment of a UV disinfection system will also reduce the effluent levels of the
photosensitive constituent N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA). The planned
improvements are expected to be completed by 2009.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted: June 4, 2009) F-1