[Page 2]
11. The quality of the groundwater near and around the Trancas WPCP is likely affected
by both the overlying surface water and the Trancas WPCP. Figure 2 - Groundwater
Monitoring Well, Surface Sampling, and Leach Field Location illustrates the
proximity of the leach field and groundwater monitoring locations to a lined creek
(Trancas Canyon Channel) and a natural creek. Figure 4 identifies storm drain outlet
locations, and Figure 5 plots measured groundwater and surface water elevations
from January 2018 through June 2022 that indicate a surface and groundwater
interaction. The shallow groundwater elevation and low/flat hydraulic gradient at the
Site, coupled with elevated levels of bacteria, total dissolved solids (TDS), chloride,
and sulfate found in the surface water samples indicate that degradation of
groundwater quality at the Site may be attributed to hydraulic communication and
mixing between the impacted surface water and the groundwater beneath the Site.
Evaluation of the impact of Trancas WPCP’s effluent discharge on groundwater
quality using groundwater monitoring data to determine compliance with
groundwater limitations is uncertain or inconclusive. Therefore, this Order provides
certainty in compliance with groundwater quality objectives at the Trancas WPCP’s
effluent discharge point without surface water and groundwater monitoring
requirements.
12. Since the effluent discharge limitations are the same as the groundwater quality
objectives for the Site, the discharge will not degrade groundwater. Accordingly, this
Order complies with the Antidegradation Policy (State Water Board Resolution No.
68-16), Water Quality Control Plan for the Coastal Watersheds of Los Angeles and
[Page 3]
Los Angeles County Order No. R4-2023-0294
Department of Public Works Page 4
Trancas Water Pollution Control Plant
Ventura Counties (Basin Plan), and State Water Board Recycled Water Policy
(Recycled Water Policy).
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
13. The Site is located approximately 1,000 feet east of the intersection of Trancas
Canyon Drive and Pacific Coast Highway in the City of Malibu. It sits above the Point
Dume Hydrologic Area – Trancas Canyon Hydraulic unit in a small alluvial basin of
gravels and sands within Trancas Canyon.
14. The approximate coordinates of the Site are latitude 34°01’ 56” and longitude
118°50’ 25”. The Site is in an unsewered area of the City of Malibu. To date, no
public sewers have been scheduled for construction in the vicinity of the Site.
15. The Trancas WPCP and its leach field dispersal systems are shown in Figures 1
and 2. Figure 3 shows the current process flow diagram (PFD) of the Trancas
WPCP. The treatment plant consists of the following key unit components.
· a headworks with a communitor;
· a bar screen;
· a Parshall flume with a flow meter/totalizer;
· an influent pump station;
· dual anoxic/extended aeration tanks;
· dual clarifiers;
· three-cell anthracite filter;
· a chlorine contact tank;
· an aerobic sludge digester;
· an effluent pump station; and
· instruments and controls.
16. As shown in Figure 3, the plant influent is conveyed to Trancas WPCP, where flow
is conveyed through a communitor with a manual bar screen bypass prior to being
measured at the influent Parshall flume flow meter. The influent flow is then
conveyed to an influent pump station, which additionally receives supernatant flow,
a result of the aerobic digester decanting process and filter backwash.
17. The influent flow is pumped to the biological treatment process via three constant
speed pumps. The biological treatment system is a packaged system which includes
two anoxic tanks, two aeration tanks, and two secondary clarifiers. Return activated
sludge is returned to the extended aeration tanks, and waste activated sludge is
wasted to the aerobic digester.
[Page 4]
Los Angeles County Order No. R4-2023-0294
Department of Public Works Page 5
Trancas Water Pollution Control Plant
18. Clarified effluent is conveyed to a three-cell anthracite filter system. Filtered effluent
is pumped from the filter process clearwell to the chlorine contact tank, where
chlorine is mixed with the filtered effluent via chemical metering pumps and a static
mixer prior to the chlorine contact tank. The current chlorine contact tanks were
originally rotating biological contactor tanks prior to being retrofitted to the current
chlorine contact tanks. Effluent from the chlorine contact tanks is then conveyed to
the effluent pump station, where it is pumped through a flow meter and ultimately
conveyed to one of the three leach fields on site.
19. The leach field dispersal system consists of three leach fields. The dimension of
each leach field is 75 feet long by 10 feet wide by 5 feet deep. The leach fields are
located approximately 330 feet away from Trancas Canyon Creek and
approximately 1,315 feet from the Pacific Ocean.
20. To meet the revised effluent limitations for coliform specified in this Order, the
existing chlorination process will need to be optimized and a new dechlorination unit
will need to be added prior to treated wastewater discharge to the leach field
consistent with Provisions, Section F.1.
21. Sludge generated from the plant goes into the sludge holding tank. The sludge is
hauled in tanker trucks to the City of Los Angeles Tillman Water Reclamation Plant
for treatment and disposal.
22. Trancas WPCP effluent water quality based on the self-monitoring reports (SMRs)
from January 2018 to June 2022 is summarized as follows:
Table 1. Effluent Wat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

