[Page 3]
8. California Water Code section 13263(e) provides that all waste discharge requirements
shall be reviewed periodically and, upon such review, may be revised by the Regional
Board. Following a review of requirements in WDR Order No. 00-030, these
requirements have been revised to include additional findings, effluent limitations,
updated standard provisions, and revised monitoring and reporting program.
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
9. The Trancas WPCP and the leachfield disposal systems are located in Section 2, T2S,
R19W, San Bernardino Base & Meridian (See Figure 1. Facility Site Location and Figure
2. Monitoring wells and Leachfields Location Map). The approximate coordinates of the
Trancas WPCP are latitude is 34° 02' 25" and longitude 118°50' 20". Some of the
hydrologic features near the Plant include:
• Trancas and Zuma Beaches are located 1,000 feet to the south of the Trancas WPCP.
• Trancas Lagoon is located at the mouth of Trancas Canyon Creek. The leachfield
disposal system is located within 300 feet of the creek.
10. The site is in an unsewered area of Los Angeles County. To date, no public sewers have
been scheduled for construction in the vicinity of the project.
11. The Trancas WPCP was designed to produce secondary-treated wastewater for
discharge to groundwater. It was designed to treat 85,000 gpd (average daily dry
weather flow) of domestic wastewater and maximum daily wet weather flow of 220,000
gpd.
12. The existing headwork consists of a communitor, bypass channel with a manual bar
screen, a metering flume, and a pump station. The wastewater enters the treatment
plant through an 8-inch gravity line into the influent channel and flows to the communitor.
A bypass channel with a manual bar rack is provided if the communitor needs to be
[Page 4]
Los Angeles County Order No. R4-2014-0188
Department of Public Works Page 3
Trancas Water Pollution Control Plant
serviced.
13. Secondary treatment consists of a dual-train activated sludge package plant with integral
secondary clarifiers and anoxic chambers. The wastewater is pumped from the influent
pump station to the anoxic tanks, an oxygen deficient environment, where it undergoes
denitrification. Flow continues to the aeration tanks where the wastewater is aerated by
course bubble diffusion. The aeration tanks allow biological treatment of the wastewater
to take place. After the aeration tanks, the flow enters the secondary clarifier basins
where the solids are settled and pumped by airlift pumps to either the anoxic tank (return
activated sludge) or to the aerobic sludge holding tank (waste activated sludge).
14. The secondary effluent flows into a single-media filter for the removal of suspended
solids. The filter has three individual filtration cells containing single-media anthracite
filters. The filters are designed to produce secondary effluent quality to enhance the
percolation of the effluent into the leachfield disposal system.
15. The filtered effluent is pumped to the chlorine contact tank where a Sodium Hypochlorite
(typically 12% NaOCI solution) is dispensed, killing the remaining microorganisms in the
filtered effluent.
16. Following disinfection, the final effluent is discharged to a leachfield disposal system
located south and southwest of the plant where it is allowed to percolate into the ground.
The leachfield disposal system consists of three (3) leachfields: the primary leachfield,
an alternate leachfield and the backup leachfield. Each leachfield disposal system
consists of five (5) 75 feet long by 10 feet wide and 5 feet deep cells. The leachfield
disposal system is approximately 330 feet away from Trancas Canyon Creek and
approximately 1,315 feet from the Pacific Ocean.
17. Sludge generated from the plant goes into the sludge holding tank. The sludge is hauled
in tanker trucks to the City of Los Angeles Tillman Water Reclamation Plant for treatment
and disposal.
18. Self-monitoring data from March 2008 to December 2013 characterize the re

===PLANNED CHANGES===

