[Page 80]
1. The Simi Valley WQCP is a tertiary wastewater treatment plant with a dry weather design
capacity of 12.5 mgd and serves an estimated population of 126,300 people. The Simi
Valley WQCP receives wastewater from the City of Simi Valley and unincorporated
sections of Ventura County.
Pretreatment Program: The wastewater is a mixture of domestic wastewater and
industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR part 403. The City of Simi
Valley modified the City’s Pretreatment Program and was adopted by the Regional Water
Board on June 2, 2011. The updated Pretreatment Program includes revised Sewer Use
Ordinance with local limits and Enforcement Response Plan.
The City of Simi Valley currently consists of 510 permitted nondomestic dischargers.
There are eight significant industrial users (SIUs). Three of them are categorical
industrial users (CIUs). The City also has fats, oils, and grease (FOG) control program
and conducts periodic inspections of its restaurants. In 2013, the City conducted 1,072
inspections, collected and analyzed 389 samples. The City also issued 29 Initial Notices
of Violation and 13 Notices of Violation.
2. Treatment at the Simi Valley WQCP consists of primary sedimentation, activated sludge
biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, dual
media filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. Treated wastewater discharged to
Arroyo Simi is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered for reuse is not dechlorinated.
3. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Simi Valley WQCP. The disinfectant
is dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber and occasionally added prior to
the filters to minimize algae growth. Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (ADOPTED: 5/08/2014), Amended Fact Sheet: 7/09/2015 F-4
[Page 81]
CITY OF SIMI VALLEY ORDER R4-2014-0066-A01
SIMI VALLEY WATER QUALITY CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0055221
serpentine chlorine contact chamber. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the
treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
4. Primary sludge is anaerobically digested. Sewage solids (sludge) separated from the
wastewater are dewatered with a press and transported to Simi Valley Landfill, Simi
Valley, California.
5. Simi Valley WQCP has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with nitrification
de-nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin
Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since September
2004. However, the NDN did not achieve the design objectives for nitrate + nitrite as
nitrogen. The Permittee modified the NDN process and completed the modification on
April 30, 2009.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Wate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Simi Valley WQCP has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with nitrification de-
nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan
objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since September 2004.
However, the NDN did not achieve the design objectives for nitrate + nitrite as nitrogen. The
Permittee modified the NDN process and completed the modification on April 30, 2009. Since
completion, the facility has be