[Page 93]
2. Treatment at the Ojai Valley WWTP consists of influent grinding, grit removal and
screening, activated sludge treatment with using an oxidation ditch with an
anaerobic-anoxic and aerobic zones for BOD, nitrogen, and phosphorus removal,
secondary sedimentation, tertiary filtration, ultraviolet disinfection, (with
chlorination/dechlorination as backup), and reaeration.
3. Primary screenings are hauled off-site for disposal. Following clarification,
secondary sludge is pumped either to the oxidation ditches (return activated sludge)
or to the belt press for dewatering (waste activated sludge) and during dry weather,
composted in the sludge drying beds. During wet weather, sludge is stored in
sludge drying beds until hauled off-site.
4. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment:
Influent grinding: Solids such as paper and rags are ground prior to entering the
treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the mechanical parts of
the treatment chain.
F-4
[Page 94]
Ojai Valley Sanitary District ORDER NO. R4-2008-0039
Ojai Valley Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0053961
Grit removal and screening: Grit is wide assortment of inorganic solids such as
pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments. Grit is removed by
settling, and rags and plastics by screening. This material is collected and disposed
of to a landfill.
Oxidation ditch: The aeration zone provides oxygen for living microorganisms that
are produced and maintained to breakdown and consume the organic material in the
incoming wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with such microorganisms in the
oxidation ditch is known as mixed liquor. In the anoxic zone, denitrification and in
anaerobic/aerobic zone, phosphorus removal are accomplished biologically by
anaerobic microorganisms that consume organic matter in the wastewater and
reduce nitrates to nitrogen gas and phosphorus is incorporated into microbial cells.
Final clarification in secondary clarifiers: In this stage, solids (sludge) are
separated from the effluent and the sludge blankets is thickened.
Equalization Basins: Allow for adjustments of flow to the filters throughout the day
and during storm events.
Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended or
colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through a bed of granular
material. In the case of Ojai Valley WWTP, sand is the filtration media. Filters
remove the solids that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby
improving the disinfection efficiency and reliability.
Ultraviolet disinfection: Irradiation with UV light is a promising method of
disinfection. Although it provides no residual, this method is effective in inactivating
both bacteria and viruses. When applied to a thin sheet of turbidity-free water, it has
been proven to be effective. UV spans wavelengths from 2000-3900 angstroms.
The most effective band for disinfection is in the shorter range of 2000-3000
angstroms.
Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Ojai Valley
WWTP as a backup to the UV system during storm events or normal process
interruptions. The disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent to destroy
bacteria, pathogens, and viruses, and to minimize algal growth.
Dechlorination: Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent
to remove residual chlorine.
Sludge drying beds: The sludge beds provide an area for storage and drying of
sludge during dry weather so it can be windrow composted.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
F-5
[Page 95]
Ojai Valley Sanitary District ORDER NO. R4-2008-0039
Ojai Valley Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0053961
The Ojai Valley WWTP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial wastewater
to the Ventura River, water of the United States. Treated effluents are discharged from
the plant to surface waters at the following discharge p

===PLANNED CHANGES===

