[Page 79]
1. The Ojai Valley WWTP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather
design capacity of 3.0 MGD and an instantaneous peak flow capacity of 9.0 MGD. The
Facility serves an estimated population of 23,000 people and receives wastewater from
the City of Ojai, the unincorporated communities of Meiners Oaks, Mira Monte, Oak
View, Casitas Springs, Foster Park, and North Ventura Avenue area. Untreated
wastewater is collected from the City of Ojai, the unincorporated Ojai Valley, and the
North Ventura Avenue area through approximately 120 miles of sanitary sewer lines. The
wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated
pursuant to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403. Influent
undergoes preliminary treatment through grinders, grit removal and screening.
Wastewater then undergoes secondary treatment through extended aeration oxidation
ditches with anaerobic, anoxic and aerobic zones for phosphorus, nitrogen and
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) removal, followed by clarification in circular
secondary clarifiers. Secondary effluent then undergoes tertiary filtration, ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection and re-aeration through static aerators prior to discharge. As a backup, the
Facility uses chlorination to disinfect the effluent water. Equalization basins allow for
evening out diurnal flows to the tertiary filters.
2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment.
a. Influent grinding: Solids such as paper and rags are ground prior to entering the
treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the mechanical parts of
the treatment chain.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 12/13/2018) F-4
[Page 80]
OJAI VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2018-0170
OJAI VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053961
b. Grit removal and screening: Grit consists of a wide assortment of inorganic solids
such as pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments. Grit is removed
by settling, and rags and plastics by screening. This material is collected and
disposed of to a landfill.
c. Oxidation ditch: The aeration zone provides oxygen for living microorganisms that
are produced and maintained to breakdown and consume the organic material in
the incoming wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with such microorganisms in
the oxidation ditch is known as mixed liquor. In the anoxic zone, denitrification and
in anaerobic/aerobic zone, phosphorus removal are accomplished biologically by
anaerobic microorganisms that consume organic matter in the wastewater and
reduce nitrates to nitrogen gas and phosphorus is incorporated into microbial cells.
d. Final clarification in secondary clarifiers: In this stage, solids (sludge) are
separated from the effluent and the sludge blanket is thickened.
e. Equalization Basins: These basins allow for adjustments of flow to the filters
throughout the day and during storm events.
f. Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended or
colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through a bed of granular
material. In the case of Ojai Valley WWTP, sand is the filtration media. Filters
remove the solids that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove,
thereby improving the disinfection efficiency and reliability.
g. UV disinfection: Irradiation with UV light is a promising method of disinfection.
Although it provides no residual, this method is effective in inactivating both bacteria
and viruses. When applied to a thin sheet of turbidity-free water, it has been proven
to be effective. UV spans wavelengths from 2000-3900 angstroms. The most
effective band for disinfection is in the shorter range of 2000-3000 angstroms.
h. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Ojai Valley
WWTP as a backup to the UV system during storm events or normal process
interruptions. The disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent to destroy
bacteria, pathogens, and viruses, and to minimize algal growth.
i. Dechlorination: Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent
to remove residual chlorine.
j. Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a
landfill. Sludge from secondary clarifiers is pumped either to the oxidation ditches
(return activated sludge), or directly to the belt press for dewatering (waste activated
sludge). The belt press dewaters waste activated sludge typically to 14 percent
solids, which is then composted in the sludge drying beds. The Permittee uses on-
site windrow composting during dry weather and hauls sludge to an off-site
composting facility during wet weather.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Ojai Valley WWTP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial wastewater to
the Ventura River. Treated effluents are discharged from the plant to surface waters at
the following discharge point:
a. Discharge Point 001
Discharge to the Ventura River, a water of the United States, via a point located
approximate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility proposes to upgrade its nitrification/denitrification (NDN) process for improved
nutrient removal to comply with the total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorous (TP) final
effluent limitations. The commissioning of the upgraded facility is scheduled in September
2024 and will be completed by June 27, 2025.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). Th