[Page 79]
1. The Ojai Valley WWTP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather
design capacity of 3.0 mgd and an instantaneous peak flow capacity of 9.0 mgd.
Untreated wastewater is collected from the City of Ojai, the unincorporated Ojai Valley,
and the North Ventura Avenue area through approximately 120 miles of sanitary sewer
lines. Influent undergoes preliminary treatment through grinders, grit removal and
screening. Wastewater then undergoes secondary treatment through extended aeration
oxidation ditches with anaerobic, anoxic and aerobic zones for phosphorus, nitrogen and
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) removal, followed by clarification in circular
secondary clarifiers. Secondary effluent then undergoes tertiary filtration, ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection and re-aeration through static aerators prior to discharge. As a backup, the
Facility uses chlorination to disinfect the effluent water. Equalization basins allow for
evening out diurnal flows to the tertiary filters.
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 23,000 people and receives wastewater
from The City of Ojai, the unincorporated communities of Meiners Oaks, Mira Monte, Oak
View, Casitas Springs, Foster Park, and North Ventura Avenue area. The wastewater is
a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to title 40 of
the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment:
Influent grinding: Solids such as paper and rags are ground prior to entering the
treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the mechanical parts of the
treatment chain.
Grit removal and screening: Grit is wide assortment of inorganic solids such as
pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments. Grit is removed by settling,
and rags and plastics by screening. This material is collected and disposed of to a
landfill.
Oxidation ditch: The aeration zone provides oxygen for living microorganisms that are
produced and maintained to breakdown and consume the organic material in the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 11/07/13) F-4
[Page 80]
OJAI VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2013-0173
OJAI VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053961
incoming wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with such microorganisms in the
oxidation ditch is known as mixed liquor. In the anoxic zone, denitrification and in
anaerobic/aerobic zone, phosphorus removal are accomplished biologically by anaerobic
microorganisms that consume organic matter in the wastewater and reduce nitrates to
nitrogen gas and phosphorus is incorporated into microbial cells.
Final clarification in secondary clarifiers: In this stage, solids (sludge) are separated
from the effluent and the sludge blanket is thickened.
Equalization Basins: Allow for adjustments of flow to the filters throughout the day and
during storm events.
Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended or
colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through a bed of granular
material. In the case of Ojai Valley WWTP, sand is the filtration media. Filters remove
the solids that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby improving
the disinfection efficiency and reliability.
UV disinfection: Irradiation with UV light is a promising method of disinfection.
Although it provides no residual, this method is effective in inactivating both bacteria and
viruses. When applied to a thin sheet of turbidity-free water, it has been proven to be
effective. UV spans wavelengths from 2000-3900 angstroms. The most effective band
for disinfection is in the shorter range of 2000-3000 angstroms.
Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Ojai Valley WWTP as
a backup to the UV system during storm events or normal process interruptions. The
disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent to destroy bacteria, pathogens, and
viruses, and to minimize algal growth.
Dechlorination: Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to
remove residual chlorine.
Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a landfill.
Sludge from secondary clarifiers is pumped either to the oxidation ditches (return
activated sludge), or directly to the belt press for dewatering (waste activated sludge).
The belt press dewaters waste activated sludge typically to 14 percent solids, which is
then composted in the sludge drying beds. The District uses on-site windrow composting
during dry weather and hauls sludge to an off-site composting facility during wet weather.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Ojai Valley WWTP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial wastewater to the
Ventura River. Treated effluents are discharged from the plant to surface waters at the
following discharge point:
Discharge Point 001: Discharge to the Ventura River, a water of the United States, via a
point located approximately 3,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility proposes to upgrade its nitrification/denitrification (NDN) process to comply with
the total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorous (TP) final effluent limitations.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code