[Page 76]
1. The Discharger owns the Burbank WRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant located at
740 N. Lake Street, Los Angeles, California. Attachment B shows the location of the
plant. The Burbank WRP currently receives wastewater from the City of Burbank. The
wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. Burbank WRP has a design capacity of 12.5 mgd and
serves an estimated population of 105,000 people.
The Burbank WRP is part of the City of Burbank’ integrated network of facilities, known
as the North Outfall Sewer (NOS), which includes four treatment plants. The upstream
treatment plants (Tillman WRP, Los Angeles-Glendale WRP, and Burbank WRP)
discharge solids to the Hyperion Treatment Plant. This system also allows biosolids,
solids, and excess flows to be diverted from the upstream plants to the Hyperion
Wastewater Treatment Plant for treatment and disposal. All solids removed from the
Burbank WRP treatment process are returned untreated to the NOS for downstream
treatment at the Hyperion Treatment Plant
2. Treatment at the Burbank WRP consists of barscreen removal of large solids, flow
equalization, primary sedimentation, activated sludge biological treatment with
nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation with coagulation, single media
and deep bed sand filtration, chlorination, chloramination, and dechlorination. Treated
wastewater discharged to the Burbank Western Channel is dechlorinated but the effluent
delivered for reuse is not dechlorinated.
3. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Burbank WRP. The disinfecting
agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens
and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Prior to discharge, sodium
bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
4. No facilities are provided for solids processed at the plant. Sewage solids separated from
the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to NOS, where treatment
and disposal occur, under Hyperion Wastewater Treatment Plant’s NPDES permit.
Attachment C is a schematic of the Burbank WRP wastewater flow.
ATTACHMENT F –

===PLANNED CHANGES===

