[Page 8]
10. The treatment at the Burbank WRP currently consists of barscreen segregation of large
solids for maceration and return to the treatment stream, primary sedimentation,
nitrification/denitrification (NDN) activated sludge biological treatment, secondary
sedimentation with coagulation, single media sand filtration, and chlorination with
sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. No facilities are provided
for solids processing at the Burbank WRP. Sewage solids separated from the
wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to NOS for treatment and
disposal. Figure 2-A is a schematic of the Burbank WRP wastewater flow.
11. In September 1991, a draft Environmental Impact Report (EIR) was prepared for the
City, by James M. Montgomery Consulting Engineers, Inc., to upgrade the plant and to
expand its design capacity to 15 MGD. Although the EIR was finalized in January 1992,
all of the upgrades have not been completed. The Burbank WRP has undergone
several upgrades within the last decade and is still undergoing changes. The major plant
upgrade, which was completed in 1999, included the addition of a third chlorine contact
chamber and replacement of the old tertiary-filters with new deep-bed effluent filters.
Following the 1999 upgrade, the City retrofitted its aeration basins for NDN treatment, in
order to achieve compliance with the Basin Plan’s ammonia objectives. Start-up of the
NDN biological nutrient removal facilities began on March 18, 2003. Testing and
modification operations of the NDN facilities continued for ninety days. In October 2003,
the City began a nine-month construction project to provide new disinfection facilities
(allowing the Burbank WRP to convert from gaseous chlorine disinfection to sodium
hypochlorite disinfection), and new dechlorination facilities. Dechlorination facilities were
formerly located at the Burbank SPP only, not at the Burbank WRP. The addition of a
new flow equalization basin, which is currently in the design phase, will allow the City to
capture peak daytime flow, increase the average dry weather influent flows to 12.5
MGD, increase recycled water availability, and improve operation of the biological
system. Figure 2-B depicts the future schematic of the wastewater flow at the Burbank
WRP, after the flow equalization basin is constructed.
12. Water Recycling Facility. In 2005, the Discharger recycled 1252.74 acre-feet (409.8
million gallons) of treated effluent from the Burbank WRP [50.3% (630.4 acre-feet) for
irrigation and 49.7% (622.34 acre-feet) for cooling water supply] and discharged an
average of 5.8 MGD from the Burbank WRP to Burbank Western Channel. The
production, distribution and reuse of recycled water for direct, non-potable applications
are presently regulated under Water Reclamation Requirements (WRR) Order No. 91-
101, adopted by this Board on September 9, 1991, pursuant to California Water Code
6
[Page 9]
City of Burbank CA0055531
Burbank Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2010-0058
Amending Order No. R4-2006-0085
section 13523.
BURBANK STEAM POWER PLANT:
13. The City of Burbank Water and Power Department owns and operates the Burbank SPP
located at 164 West Magnolia Boulevard, Burbank, California, on a 23-acre site. The site
is bound by Magnolia Boulevard on the north, Olive Avenue on the south, Lake Avenue on
the west, and interstate Highway 5 on the east. The City of Burbank upgraded the
Burbank SPP, as part of the Magnolia Power Project (MPP), by replacing the older power
generating units with more energy-efficient units and switching to a zero liquid discharge
(ZLD) process. On June 14, 2005, discharge of process wastewater from the Burbank
SPP, through Discharge Serial No. 001, into the Burbank Western Channel ceased. Under
the ZLD alternative, cooling tower blowdown and related wastewater from the new
Magnolia Unit are completely evaporated using a crystallizer, filter press, and sludge dryer.
Dry solids are transported off-site to a landfill. Thus, the need to discharge process
wastewater to the Burbank Western Channel has been eliminated. Process wastewater
from the Burbank SPP is now discharged to the sanitary sewer for treatment.
14. Recycled water is still supplied by the City of Burbank Public Works Department, from the
Burbank WRP, to the Burbank SPP for industrial use as a source of cooling tower makeup
water, demineralizer wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

