[Page 97]
December 17, 2019 to include a statement specifying that the local limits are
instantaneous limitations. This change to the SUO was not considered a substantial
change to the approved pretreatment program, so it did not need to undergo a
separate public review process. Accordingly, the SUO went into effect 45 days later.
In accordance with 40 CFR § 122.44(j)(2)(ii), the Discharger is required to submit a
written technical evaluation of the need to revise local limits following the effective
date of this Order.
2.1.3. The treatment system at the Burbank WRP consists of bar screen removal of large
solids, flow equalization, primary sedimentation, nitrification and denitrification
(NDN) activated sludge biological treatment, secondary clarification, coagulation,
single media and deep bed sand filtration, disinfection by chlorination with the
addition of ammonium hydroxide, and dechlorination. Since the Burbank WRP does
not process its own solids, solids from the Facility are returned to the collection
system for processing at the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant. Solids returned to
the sewer consist of screenings, primary and secondary sludge skimmings, and filter
backwash. Attachment C1 includes a process flow diagram of the Burbank WRP.
2.1.4 In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia water quality objectives (WQOs)
specified in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region (Basin Plan),
the Discharger installed an NDN process, the Enhanced Modified Ludzack-Ettinger
(eMLE) Process, in June 2007. Since the installation of this additional treatment, the
Discharger has been able to meet ammonia final effluent limitations in the existing
Order.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The Burbank WRP discharges tertiary-treated wastewater to the Burbank Western
Channel, a water of the United States, tributary to the Los Angeles River, upstream

[Page 101]
05/10/2021 FAIL, 87% Effect
(Ceriodaphnia dubia) 50%
Total coliform: The Burbank WRP effluent exceeded the effluent limitations for total
coliform five times in March 2018 and once in April 2018. Although the root cause was
not determined, operations and maintenance (O&M) staff planned, scheduled, and
executed the cleaning of the Burbank WRP’s Chlorine Contact Tank No. 3 (CCT3),
where both, recycled water is pumped to the City of Burbank and bacteria compliance
samples are collected. An elevated chlorine residual set point was maintained following
cleaning as a preventive measure. The total coliform exceedance in April 2018 was
related to the low influent flow at the headworks caused by failure of the Beachwood
Pump Station. Consequently, low flows in the chlorine contact chamber caused sodium
bisulfite (SBS) to backflow and reduced chlorine levels in the chlorine contact chamber.
A plan was developed and put in place to coordinate the recycled water pumping rate at
the time of coliform testing, to allow increased flow in the chlorine contact chamber.
ATTACHMENT F-FACT SHEET F-9
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023
[Page 102]
CITY OF BURBANK ORDER R4-2023-0358
BURBANK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0055531
Residual chlorine. The effluent exceeded the maximum daily effluent limitation for
residual chlorine in December 2019. The exceedances were caused by equipment
malfunction that resulted in underdosing the SBS. New SBS dosing equipment was
procured and installed.
Chronic Toxicity. In June 2018, the effluent exceeded the monthly median effluent
limitation due to the sodium bisulfite issue that caused coliform exceedances. A
contractor was retained to upgrade the sodium bisulfite injection control system, which
included a Compound Loop Control on the chemical feed system. Accelerated testing
was conducted from July 3 through August 20, 2018, and the discharge tested back into
compliance in September 2018, without having to initiate a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation
(TRE). In January 2020, the maximum daily effluent limitation for chronic toxicity and the
monthly median effluent limitation were exceeded. Although additional samples were
collected during the m

===PLANNED CHANGES===

