[Page 100]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and United Water Services operates the Burbank WRP, a tertiary
wastewater treatment plant located at 740 N. Lake Street, Burbank, California.
Attachment B shows the location of the plant. The Burbank WRP currently receives
wastewater from the City of Burbank. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic and
industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. Burbank WRP has
a design capacity of 12.5 mgd and serves an estimated population of 105,000 people.
The Burbank WRP is part of the City of Los Angeles’ integrated network of facilities,
known as the North Outfall Sewer (NOS), which includes four treatment plants. The
upstream treatment plants (Donald C. Tillman WRP, Los Angeles-Glendale WRP, and
Burbank WRP) discharge solids to the Hyperion Treatment Plant. This system also allows
biosolids, solids, and excess flows to be diverted from the upstream plants to the Hyperion
Wastewater Treatment Plant for treatment and disposal. All solids removed from the
Burbank WRP treatment process are returned untreated to the NOS for downstream
treatment at the Hyperion Treatment Plant.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Treatment at the Burbank WRP consists of barscreen removal of large solids, flow
equalization, primary sedimentation, activated sludge biological treatment with
nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation with coagulation, single
media deep bed sand filtration, chlorination, chloramination, and dechlorination.
Treated wastewater discharged to Burbank Western Channel is dechlorinated but
the effluent delivered for reuse is not dechlorinated.
2. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Burbank WRP. The disinfecting
agent is added to the treated effluent after the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens
and viruses. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to
remove residual chlorine.
3. No facilities are provided for solids processed at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to NOS, where
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted 03/01/2012) F-4
[Page 101]
City of Burbank ORDER NO. R4-2012-0059
Burbank Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA0055531
treatment and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

