[Page 5]
6. The treatment at the Burbank WRP currently consists of barscreen segregation of
large solids for maceration and return to the treatment stream, primary
sedimentation, nitrification/denitrification (NDN) activated sludge biological
treatment, secondary sedimentation with coagulation, single media sand filtration,
and chlorination with sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite.
No facilities are provided for solids processing at the Burbank WRP. Sewage
solids separated from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for
conveyance to NOS for treatment and disposal. Figure 2 is a schematic of the
Burbank WRP wastewater flow.
A. Primary sedimentation. The main objective of primary sedimentation is to
remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids
(settleable solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary
sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed
off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
B. NDN Activated sludge. The activated sludge process is a treatment system
in which the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc
(microorganisms, bugs, or activated sludge) in an aeration basin.
Activated sludge converts non-settleable and dissolved organic
contaminants into biological floc, which can then be removed from the
wastewater with further treatment. The nitrification process converts
ammonia nitrogen into nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen (inorganic nitrogen). The
denitrification process converts the inorganic nitrogen into gaseous
nitrogen, thus removing it from the wastewater.
C. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation. The main objective of
secondary sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater.
Chemicals, such as aluminum sulfate (alum), may be added as part of the
treatment process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological
floc to combine into larger clumps (coagulate). This makes it easier to
F-6
[Page 6]
Burbank Water Reclamation Plant CA0055531
Fact Sheet
remove the floc.
D. Single media sand filtration. The filtration process is used to remove or
reduce suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the
water through a bed of sand material. Filters remove the solids that the
secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability.
E. Chlorination. In the past, gaseous chlorine was used as a disinfectant in
the Burbank WRP. However, gaseous chlorine was replaced by liquid
sodium hypochlorite. Disinfectant is added to the treated effluent to
destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses.
F. Dechlorination. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated
effluent to remove residual chlorine.
G. Sludge. No facilities are provided for solids processed at the plant. All
sewage solids separated from the wastewater are returned to the trunk
sewer for conveyance to the City’s North Outfall Sewer (NOS), where
treatment and disposal occur, under the Hyperion Wastewater Treatment
Plant’s NPDES permit, Order No. R4-2005-0020 (NPDES

===PLANNED CHANGES===

