[Page 4]
9. Tapia treats both the liquid and solid fractions of the municipal wastewater. Treatment starts
with coarse screening, grit removal, and primary sedimentation. The flow stream then
separates into two routes, one for solids and the other for liquid. The liquid treatment route
consists of secondary treatment, tertiary treatment, chlorination, and dechlorination. Prior to
1993, the principal solids treatment route was aerobic digestion at Tapia and land
application at the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm. After startup of the Rancho Las Virgenes
Composting Facility in 1993, the solids were anaerobicalljl digested, dewaterd using
centrifuges and then composted. See Figure 2 for the plant flow diagram.
10. The treatment facility consists of of primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment for the 16.1
mgd capacity. Currently, Las Virgenes uses five primary tanks to treat approximately 9 mgd
teta!-~!Q\J!-ts-the-plant-.-Eor secondary treatment, Tapia employs an activated sludge process
with fine bubble aeration, followed by single stage nitrification and secondary clarification.
Tertiary treatment includes coagulant addition, flocculation, and physical filtration through a
mono-media coal filter. Sodium hypochlorite solution is added for effluent disinfection, and
sodium bisulfate is added for dechlorination.
I
11. Primary and secondary sludges from the wastewater treatment at Tapia are pumped to the
Rancho Las Virgenes Composting Facility (Rancho), also operated by Las Virgenes, located
at 3700 Las Virgenes Road, approximately three miles north of Tapia WRF. At Rancho, ,
the sludge is anaerobically digested, screened, dewatered, and composted to be used as
soil amendment in plant nurseries, sod farms, and landscapes. Centrate from the
composting facility is stored in a holding tank, and is returned within 24 hours via a sewage
pipeline to the headworks at Tapia for treatment. This centrate is a significant source of
nutrients for Tapia. Figure 2a shows the process flow diagram at Rancho.
12. A portion of the waste activated sludge (WAS) is aerobically digested and screened at Tapia
and pumped to the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm, a 91 -acre site located at 3240 Las Virgenes
Road, for subsurface biosolids injection. The fields are planted with a variety of pasture
grasses to agronomically remove nutrients from the injection operation. The subsurface
biosolids injection is regulated under separate WDRs contained in Order No. 79-107,
adopted by this Regional Board on June 25, 1979. If no biosolids injection is being done at
the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm, the waste activated sludge is sent instead to Rancho. The
majority of the WAS is treated at Rancho and recycled as compost. The composting and
farm facilities eliminate the need for hauling and disposal of biosolids to landfills.
'
13. On September 26, 2002, the Regional Board adopted WDRs, Order No. R4-2002-158, for
Las Virgenes Water District authorizing the discharge of tertiary-treated wastewater from its
Tapia WRF to Percolation Ponds (Constructed Wetlands). The percolation ponds are
located immediately adjacent to Malibu Creek near the Tapia WRF. Las Virgenes plans to
rehabilitate the percolation ponds and convert them to constructed wetlands to treat a
portion of Malibu Creek flows for the removal of pathogens and nutriehts. The wetlands
will also be used approximately six weeks in the spring and six weeks in the fall to remove
additional nutrients from the discharge and to dispose of surplus recycled water. The
[Page 5]
Las Virgenes Municipal Water District
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility
Order No. R4-2005-0074
constructed wetlands are designed and monitored to ensure'that any water applied'to the
constructed wetlands does not reach Malibu Creek or Malibu Lagoon.
Construction of the wetlands is on hold pending issuance of a permit from the California
Coastal Commission.
Modifications to Treatment Plant.
14. Bioloaical Nutrient Reduction (BNR) Facilitv: Time Schedule Order No. 97-13 6 provided
Tapia with a compliance schedule to achieve compliance with the water quality objectives
for nitrogen compounds. The District prepared a Nutrient Reduction Master Plan in January
2002, to identify facilities needed to consistently meet nitrate limits in Malibu Creek and the
Los Angeles River.
Centrate Eaualization Proiect: The biosolids generated from wastewater treatment at the
Tapia WRF are pumped to Rancho for further treatment. At Rancho, the biosolids are
anaerobically digested, dewatered through cetrifuges, and composted. The centrate.
generated from dewatering the anaerobically digested sludge which has a very high
concentration of ammonia which is stored in a wet well and returned to Tapia WRF for
treatment at a regulated rate. Centrate return to Tapia historically has impacted the
activated sludge treatment process. Return of centrate to Las Virgenes WRF creates
higher air demand for complete nitrification. To reduce the high ammonia load in the
centrate, biological and physical/chemical alternatives for the reduction of total inorganic
nitrogen in the centrate were considered.
Las Virgenes is considering retrofittinglrehabilitating the farm tanks to perfoim centrate flow
pacing, so that the centrate flow can be spread out over 24 hours a day, seven days a week
instead of the current seven hours a day, five days a week. It is expected that this would
level out the spikes in nitrogen concentrations at Tapia that are caused from centrate return
flows, and result in lower; more consistent nitrogen concentrations, as well 'as an increase in
-
nitrogen removal efficiency.
On April 22, 2005, Las Virgenes met with Regional Board staff and submitted a Technical
Memorandum on "Nutrient Reduction Measures for Nitrogen and Phosphorus". The
objective of this nutrient reduction master plan is to look at the feasibility of converting Tapia
WRF into a 12 mgd, membrane bioreactor (MBR) process with reverse osmosis (RO)
treatment of the MBR effluent to meet the final effluent nutrient limitations.
Las Virgenes indicates that it will take at least four and a half years to make changes to
the Tapia facility to meet the final limits. Assumjng a start date of February 6, 2006 (the
closest Joint Powers Authority board meeting to December 23, 2005, if the permit is
adopted on November 3, 2005) preliminary design and CEQA would be complete by
December 2006. Because the facility is in the Coastal Zone, a Coastal Commission
permit would be required and may take at least a year, to December 2007. The design
would be complete and a Notice to Proceed could be issued by December 2008. An 18-
month construction period results in operational facilities by December 2010. Several
approvals required for the project are outside Las Virgenes's control, such as a delay in
[Page 6]
Las Virgenes Municipal Water District
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility
Order No. R4-2005-0074
obtaining the Coastal permit, and would increase the time to complete the project. It is
also necessary to provide centrate equalization facilities to achieve the final limit of 8 mg/L.
Las Virgenes awarded a design contract for these facilities on September 27, 2005, and
the design could be complete by June 2006. The facilities should be operational by May or
June 2007.
15 Tapia WRF is also experiencing difficulty in meeting the effluent limit for
dichlorobromomethane (DCBM). To achieve compliance with the DCBM, final limit, in
2001, Las Virgenes made changes to the treatment plant's disinfection system to limit the
formation of DCBM in the effluent. DCBM is one of the disinfectant byproducts formed by
the chlorination, of wastewater. Las Virgenes replaced chlorine gas chlorination with
sodium hypochlorite solution chlorination and sulfur dioxide with sodium bisulfite
dechlorination, to disinfect their wastewater, thus limiting free chlorine molecules in the
effluent (free chlorine triggers the formation of DCBM). But changes in the chlorination
system did not yield significant reduction in DCBM concentrations.
16 Water Recycling Facility. Approximately 40 percent of the treated wastewater is used on
an annual basis for landscaping irrigation. Recycled water is also used at Tapia WRF,
Pepperdine University, Rancho Las Virgenes Cornposting Facility and Rancho Las
Virgenes Farm. The use of reclaimed water is regulated under Water Reclamati

===PLANNED CHANGES===

