[Page 127]
1. The Tapia WRF uses the following process sequence: Coarse screening, grit
removal, primary sedimentation, secondary treatment, tertiary treatment, chlorination,
and dechlorination. For secondary treatment, Tapia employs an activated sludge
process with nitrification and denitrification, followed by secondary clarification.
Tertiary treatment includes coagulant addition, flocculation and physical filtration
through a mono-media coal filter. Sodium hypochlorite solution is added for effluent
disinfection, and sodium bisulfate is added for dechlorination. The return activated
sludge (RAS), prior to returning to the secondary treatment system, undergoes a RAS
treatment to facilitate nitrogen removal as well as to provide favorable conditions for
the development of a facultative anaerobic biomass. Attachment C-1 shows the
schematic of wastewater flow.
2. Primary and secondary sludges from the wastewater treatment at Tapia are pumped
to the Rancho Las Virgenes Composting Facility (Rancho), also operated by Las
Virgenes, located at 3700 Las Virgenes Road, approximately three miles north of
Tapia. At Rancho, the sludge is anaerobically digested, dewatered, and composted to
be used as soil amendment in plant nurseries, sod farms, and landscapes. In the
past, centrate has shown to be a significant source of nitrogen for Tapia WRF, adding
to its challenge of achieving compliance with the nitrate effluent limitation. As of
September 2009, Tapia WRF’s centrate undergoes a treatment provided by the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted Version: September 2, 2010) F-7
[Page 128]
Las Virgenes Municipal Water District ORDER NO. R4-2010-0165
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility NPDES NO. CA0056014
Centrate Treatment Unit (CTU), to remove nitrogen. The treatment provided by the
CTU, which consists of two 800,000 gallon tanks connected to pumps and blowers,
consists of aeration, mixing, settling, and decanting. The CTU operation includes
centrate flow pacing, so that the centrate flow can be spread out over 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. Centrate treatment and flow pacing are expected to level out the
spikes in nitrogen concentrations in the effluent due to untreated centrate return
flows, resulting in lower, more consistent nitrogen concentrations, as well as an
increase in nitrogen removal efficiency.
Prior to 1993. the principal solids treatment route was aerobic digestion at Tapia and
land application at the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm. After startup of the Rancho Las
Virgenes Composting Facility in 1993, the solids were anaerobically digested,
dewatered using centrifuges and then composted.
The individual wastewater treatment processes provided by Tapia WRF is further
explained below:
a. Primary sedimentation. The main objective of primary sedimentation is to remove
solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids (settleable solids)
precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin. The
lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids remain
in suspension.
b. NDN Activated sludge. The activated sludge process is a treatment system in
which the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc
(microorganisms or activated sludge) in an aeration basin. Activated sludge
converts non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc,
which can then be removed from the wastewater with further treatment. The
nitrification process converts ammonia nitrogen into nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen
(inorganic nitrogen). The denitrification process converts the inorganic nitrogen
into gaseous nitrogen, thus removing it from the wastewater.
c. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation. The main objective of secondary
sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater. Chemicals, such
as aluminum sulfate (alum), may be added as part of the treatment process to
enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological floc to combine into larger
clumps (coagulate). This makes it easier to remove the floc.
d. Inert media filtration. The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through
a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the secondary
sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the disinfection efficiency
and reliability.
e. Chlorination. In the past, gaseous chlorine was used as a disinfectant in the
Tapia WRP. However, gaseous chlorine was replaced by liquid sodium
hypochlorite. Disinfectant is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted Version: September 2, 2010) F-8
[Page 129]
Las Virgenes Municipal Water District ORDER NO. R4-2010-0165
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility NPDES NO. C

===PLANNED CHANGES===

