[Page 5]
5. Tapia treats both the liquid and solid fractions of the municipal wastewater.
Treatment starts with coarse screening, grit removal, and primary sedimentation.
The flow stream then separates into two routes, one for solids and the other for
liquid. The liquid treatment route consists of secondary treatment, tertiary treatment,
chlorination, and dechlorination. Prior to 1993. the principal solids treatment route
was aerobic digestion at Tapia and land application at the Rancho Las Virgenes
Farm. After startup of the Rancho Las Virgenes Composting Facility in 1993, the
solids were anaerobically digested, dewaterd using centrifuges and then composted.
See Figure 2 for the plant flow diagram.
6. The treatment facility consists of primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment for the
16.1 mgd capacity. Currently, Las Virgenes uses five primary tanks to treat
approximately 9 mgd total flow to the plant. For secondary treatment, Tapia
employs an activated sludge process with fine bubble aeration, followed by single
stage nitrification and secondary clarification. Tertiary treatment includes coagulant
addition, flocculation, and physical filtration through a mono-media coal filter.
Sodium hypochlorite solution is added for effluent disinfection, and sodium bisulfate
is added for dechlorination.
7. Primary and secondary sludges from the wastewater treatment at Tapia are pumped
to the Rancho Las Virgenes Composting Facility (Rancho), also operated by Las
Virgenes, located at 3700 Las Virgenes Road, approximately three miles north of
Tapia. At Rancho, the sludge is anaerobically digested, screened, dewatered, and
composted to be used as soil amendment in plant nurseries, sod farms, and
landscapes. Centrate from the composting facility is stored in a holding tank, and is
returned within 24 hours via a sewage pipeline to the headworks at Tapia for
treatment. This centrate is a significant source of nutrients for Tapia. Figure 2a
shows the process flow diagram at Rancho.
A. Primary sedimentation. The main objective of primary sedimentation is to
remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids
(settleable solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary
sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed
off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
F-6
[Page 6]
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility CA0056014
Fact Sheet
B. NDN Activated sludge. The activated sludge process is a treatment system
in which the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc
(microorganisms or activated sludge) in an aeration basin. Activated
sludge converts non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into
biological floc, which can then be removed from the wastewater with
further treatment. The nitrification process converts ammonia nitrogen into
nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen (inorganic nitrogen). The denitrification process
converts the inorganic nitrogen into gaseous nitrogen, thus removing it
from the wastewater.
C. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation. The main objective of
secondary sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater.
Chemicals, such as aluminum sulfate (alum), may be added as part of the
treatment process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological
floc to combine into larger clumps (coagulate). This makes it easier to
remove the floc.
D. Inert media filtration. The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water
through a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that
the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability.
E. Chlorination. In the past, gaseous chlorine was used as a disinfectant in
the Tapia WRP. However, gaseous chlorine was replaced by liquid sodium
hypochlorite. Disinfectant is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters
to destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in
the filters. Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine
chlorine contact chamber.
F. Dechlorination. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated
effluent to remove residual chlorine.
G. Sludge. A portion of the waste activated sludge is aerobically digested and
screened at Tapia and pumped to the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm, a 91-acre
site located at 3240 Las Virgenes Road, for subsurface sludge injection. If no
sludge injection is being done at the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm, the waste
activated sludge is sent, instead to, the composting facility.
8. The Rancho Las Virgenes Farm fields are planted with a variety of pasture grasses
to agronomically remove nutrients from the injection operation.. The subsurface
biosolids injection is regulated under separate WDRs contained in Order No. 79-
107, adopted by this Regional Board on June 25, 1979. If no biosolids injection is
being done at the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm, the waste activated sludge is sent,
instead, to . Rancho. The majority of the WAS is treated at Rancho and recycled as
compost. The composting and farm facilities eliminate the need for hauling and
disposal of biosolids to landfills.
F-7
[Page 7]
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility CA0056014
Fact Sheet
9. On September 26, 2002, the Regional Board adopted WDRs, Order No. R4-2002-
158, for Las Virgenes Water District authorizing the discharge of tertiary-treated
wastewater from its Tapia WRF to Percolation Ponds (Constructed Wetlands). The
percolation ponds are located immediately adjacent to Malibu Creek near the Tapia
WRF. Las Virgenes plans to rehabilitate the percolation ponds and convert them
to constructed wetlands to treat a portion of Malibu Creek flows for the removal of
pathogens and nutrients. The wetlands will also be used approximately six weeks
in the spring and six weeks in the fall to remove nutrients from the discharge and
to dispose of surplus recycled water. The constructed wetlands are designed and
monitored to ensure that any water applied to the constructed wetlands does not
reach Malibu Creek or Malibu Lagoon.
Construction of the wetlands is on hold pending issuance of a permit by the
California Coastal Commission.
IV. Modifications to Treatment Plant.
1. Biological Nutrient Reduction (BNR) Facility: Time Schedule Order No. 97-136
provided a compliance schedule to achieve compliance with the water quality
objectives for nitrogen compounds. The District prepared a Nutrient Reduction
Master Plan in January 2002, to identify facilities and/or improvements needed to
consistently meet nitrate limits in Malibu Creek and the Los Angeles River.
2. Centrate Equalization Project: The biosolids generated from wastewater
treatment at the Tapia WRF are pumped to Rancho for further treatment. At
Rancho, the biosolids are anaerobically digested, dewatered through cetrifuges,
and composted. The centrate generated from dewatering the anaerobically
digested sludge which has a very high concentration of ammonia is stored in a wet
well and returned to Tapia WRF for treatment at a regulated rate. Centrate return
to Tapia historically has impacted the activated sludge treatment process. Return
of centrate to Las Virgenes WRF creates higher air demand for complete
nitrification. To reduce the high ammonia load in the centrate, biological and
physical/chemical alternatives for reduction of total inorganic nitrogen in centrate
were considered.
3. Las Virgenes is considering retrofitting/rehabilitating the farm tanks to perform
centrate flow pacing, so that centrate flow can be spread out over 24 hours a day,
seven days a week instead of the current 7 hours a day, five days a week. It is
expected that this would level out the spike in nitrogen concentrations at Tapia that
are derived from centrate return flows, and result in lower, more consistent nitrogen
concentrations, as well as an increase in nitrogen removal efficiency.
On April 22, 2005, Las Virgenes met with Regional Board staff and submitted a
Technical Memorandum on "Nutrient Reduction Measures for Nitrogen and
Phosphorus". The objective of the nutrient reduction master plan is to look at the
feasibility of converting Tapia WRF into a 12 mgd membrane bioreactor (MBR)
process with reverse osmosis (RO) treatment of the MBR effluent, in order to meet
the final effluent nutrient limitations.
F-8
[Page 8]
Tapia Water Reclamation Facility CA0056014
Fact Sheet
4. Tapia WRF is experiencing difficulty in meeting the final effluent limit for
dichlorobromomethane (DCBM). To achieve compliance with the DCBM limit, in
2001, Las Virgenes made changes to the treatment plant’s disinfection system to
limit the formation of DCBM in the effluent. DCBM is one of the disinfectant
byproducts formed by the chlorination of wastewater. Las Virgenes replaced
chlorine gas chlorination with sodium hypochlorite solution chlorination and sulfur
dioxide with sodium bisulfite dechlorination, to disinfect and dechlorinate their
wastewater, thus limiting free chlorine molecules in the effluent (free chlorine
triggers the formation of DCBM). But changes in the chlorination system did not
yield significant reduction in DCBM concentrations.
5. Las Virgenes indicates that it will take at least four and a half years to make
changes to the Tapia facility to meet the final limits. Assuming a start date of
February 6, 2006 (the closest Joint Powers Authority board meeting to December
23, 2005, if the permit is adopted on November 3, 2005) preliminary design and
CEQA would

===PLANNED CHANGES===

