[Page 90]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates Tapia WRF, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant
located at 731 Malibu Canyon Road, Calabasas, CA 91302. Attachment B shows the
location of the plant. Tapia WRF currently serves an estimated population of 100,000
residents in western Los Angeles and eastern Ventura Counties (Agoura Hills,
Calabasas, Hidden Hills, Thousand Oaks, and Westlake Village) with a service area of
over 109 square miles. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic, commercial, and
industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR § 403. The Tapia WRF has
a design capacity of 12 million gallons per day (mgd) and treats an average flow of 7.9
mgd. The design capacity of the Tapia WRF was previously 16.1 mgd; however, the
nutrient reduction facilities constructed in 2008/2009 were designed to meet the nutrient
limits imposed by the 2005 NPDES permit at an average daily flow of 12 mgd. In 2015,
on average, Tapia WRF processed 7.9 mgd and discharged 2.2 mgd to Malibu Creek
and about 0.29 mgd to the Los Angeles River. Tapia WRF recycled the remainder of the
tertiary-treated wastewater.
Tapia WRF uses the following process sequence: Coarse screening, grit removal,
primary sedimentation, activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and
denitrification, secondary sedimentation, tertiary filtration, disinfection by chloramination,
and dechlorination. The return activated sludge (RAS), prior to returning to the secondary
treatment system, undergoes reaeration treatment to facilitate nitrogen and phosphorus
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted 06/01/17) F-6
[Page 91]
LAS VIREGENES MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2017-0124
TAPIA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0056014
removal as well as to provide favorable conditions for the development of a facultative
anaerobic biomass. Attachment C shows the schematic of wastewater flow.
The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment:
Screening and grit removal: Bar screens mechanically remove approximately 4 wet
tons of large debris per month from the waste stream and grit chambers remove
approximately 11 wet tons per month of grit from the waste stream. This material is
sent to a landfill for disposal.
Primary sedimentation: The main objective of primary sedimentation is to remove
solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids (settleable solids)
precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin. The lighter
solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids remain in
suspension.
NDN Activated sludge: The activated sludge process is a treatment system in which
the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc (microorganisms or
activated sludge) in an aeration basin. Activated sludge converts non-settleable
and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc, which can then be removed
from the wastewater with further treatment. The nitrification process converts
ammonia nitrogen into nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen (inorganic nitrogen). The
denitrification process converts the inorganic nitrogen into gaseous nitrogen, thus
removing it from the wastewater. The activated sludge biological treatment at Tapia
WRF uses the Ludzak-Ettinger process consisting of aerobic and anoxic zones, and
recirculation and mixing pumps to remove nitrogen from the wastewater.
Secondary sedimentation with coagulation: The main objective of secondary
sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater. Aluminum sulfate
(alum) is added prior to filtration to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the
biological floc to combine into larger clumps (coagulate), making it easier to remove
the floc.
Inert media filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended
or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through a bed of
graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the secondary
sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the disinfection efficiency
and reliability.
Disinfection: Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are added to the treated effluent
prior to the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal
growth in the filters. After filtration and prior to entering the contact chamber, the
wastewater is fed an additional dose of sodium hypochlorite and ammonia.
Dechlorination: Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to
remove residual chlorine.
Sludge: Prior to 1993 the principal solids treatment route was aerobic digestion at
Tapia WRF and land application at the Rancho Las Virgenes Farm. Since the
startup of the Rancho Las Virgenes Composting Facility in 1993, primary and
secondary sludge from the wastewater treatment at Tapia WRF are combined and
pumped to the Rancho Las Virgenes Composting Facility (Rancho) (also operated
by LVMWD), a 91-acre site approximately three miles from the Tapia WRF, located
at 3700 Las Virgenes Road. At Rancho, the sludge is anaerobically digested,
dewatered, mixed with small woodchips or sawdust, and composted. Since United
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted 06/01/17) F-7
[Page 92]
LAS VIREGENES MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2017-0124
TAPIA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0056014
States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has not delegated the authority
to regulate biosolids/sludge under 40 CFR part 503 to the state of California, sludge
from LVMWD is regulated directly by USEPA. However, the composting activity at
the Rancho facility is permitted by a State Water Board Order and a City of
Calabasas Conditional Use Permit. Upon completion of meeting 40 CFR 503
requirements, the compost is tested and given away or sold to consumers for land
application as class “A” exceptional quality product. In the past, centrate has shown
to be a significant source of nitrogen to the Tapia WRF, making it difficult to achieve
compliance with the nutrient effluent limitations. As of September 2009, Tapia
WRF’s centrate undergoes treatment provided by the Centrate Treatment Unit
(CTU), to reduce nitrogen. The treatment provided by the CTU, which consists of
two 800,000 gallon tanks connected to pumps and blowers, consists of aeration,
mixing, settling, and decanting. The CTU operation includes centrate flow pacing,
so that the centrate flow can be spread out over 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Centrate treatment and flow pacing are expected to level out the spikes in
nitrogen concentrations in the effluent due to untreated centrate return flows,
resulting in lower, more consistent nitrogen concentrations, as well as an increase in
nitrogen removal efficiency. The treated centrate is returned to the Tapia WRF
through the sanitary sewer.
Altern

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to recycle the majority of the treated wastewater through indirect
potable reuse using surface water augmentation. The Discharger is developing the Pure
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted 06/01/17) F-19
[Page 104]
LAS VIREGENES MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2017-0124
TAPIA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0056014
Water Project. This project will convey excess recycled water produced at the Tapia WRF to
a new off-site Advanced Water Treatment (AWT) facility that will treat the tertiary-treated
recycled water from the Tapia WRF through microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and advanced
oxidation. The purified water will be conveyed to Las Virgenes’ existing potable water
reservoir for indirect potable reuse through surface water augmentation. The brine from the
AWT will be conveyed to the Calleguas Municipal Water District Salinity Management
Pipeline in Ventura County. New facilities that will be constructed as part of this 13.5-year
project include the AWT, an extension of the recycled