[Page 96]
1. The Hill Canyon TP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather
design capacity of 14 mgd. The City’s wastewater collection system discharges
into gravity mainlines known as Unit W and Unit Y, but they are also referred to
as South Influent and North Influent, respectively. Influent undergoes preliminary
treatment through a rock baffle and step-stair screens, for debris and trash
removal. Wastewater undergoes primary clarification, nitrification and
denitrification for biological nitrogen removal (BNR), secondary clarification, flow
equalization, filtration, disinfection using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination
using sodium bisulfite.
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 130,000 people. The wastewater
is a mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated
pursuant to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403 under
the City of Thousand Oaks’ Pretreatment Program, which was approved by
USEPA on June 2, 1982, with concurrence of the Regional Water Board. The
City of Thousand Oaks’ pretreatment program currently consists of six permitted
nondomestic dischargers. All six are classified as significant industrial users
(SIUs) pursuant to 40 CFR 403.3(v). Three of them are categorical industrial
users (CIUs): two are computer chip manufacturers under 40 CFR 469.18A and
one is a printed circuit board manufacturer under 40 CFR 433.17. The City also
has a fats, oils, and grease (FOG) program and conducts inspections of its
restaurants every two years, or as dictated by its MS4 permit.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment:
a. Primary clarification: In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out,
thickened, and returned to the anaerobic digesters for additional treatment.
Primary-treated wastewater is sent to the BNR basins.
b. Secondary Clarification: Wastewater that has received primary clarification
enters the activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen removal using the
Modified Ludzak-Ettinger (MLE) process. Wastewater that has undergone
the nitrification/denitrification process is sent to the secondary filters.
Secondary treated wastewater is sent to the tertiary filters.
c. Equalization Basins: Equalization basins allow for adjustments of flow of
primary clarifier effluent to the MLE process and/or headworks throughout
the day. They help the system run closer to a steady state condition.
d. Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream. Filters remove the solids
that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby improving
the disinfection efficiency and reliability. Filter backwash water is returned to
the headworks for treatment.
e. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite and aqueous ammonia are used as
disinfectants in the chlorine contact chamber. The disinfecting agent is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted: 11/14/2019) F-4
[Page 97]
THE CITY OF THOUSAND OAKS ORDER R4-2019-0137
HILL CANYON TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056294
added to the treated effluent to destroy bacteria, pathogens, and viruses, and
to minimize algal growth.
f. Dechlorination: Prior to discharge to North Fork Arroyo Conejo, sodium
bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
g. Solids handling: Grit and screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a
landfill. Sludge from secondary clarifiers is either pumped to the MLE
process (return activated sludge) or to the gravity belt thickeners. Sludge
from the belt press is either sun dried at HCTP and hauled to a landfill or
hauled directly to a landfill off the screw press.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
1. The Hill Canyon TP discharges tertiary-treated municipal wastewater
continuously to the North Fork Arroyo Conejo from Discharge Point 005 (see
table on cover page), a water of the United States, and tributary to Calleguas
Creek within Calleguas Creek Watershed. Figure E-1 in the Monitoring and
Reporting Program shows the location of Discharge Point 005.
2. Under a separate Order, NPDES Permit No. CAS000001, General Permit for
Storm Water Discharges Associated with Industrial Activities, the City of
Thousand Oaks previously discharged stormwater into the North Fork Arroyo
Conejo from the Hill Canyon TP through Discharge Serial Nos. 001, 003, and
006; and into South Fork Arroyo Conejo through Discharge Serial No. 004.
Discharge 002 has been filled and completely removed as a stormwater
discharge site. The stormwater discharge points 001, 003, 004, and 006 have all
been re-plumbed to divert storm water runoff into the headworks or into the flow
equalization basin for treatment. On October 26, 2017, the Regional Water
Board approved the notice of termination (NOT) for the City of Thousand Oaks’
enrollment under the General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with
Industrial Activities.
3. During dry weather (May 1 – October 31), the primary sources of water flow in
the receiving waters, downstream of the discharge point, is the Hill Canyon T

===PLANNED CHANGES===

