[Page 100]
Skyworks Lawrence. The SIUs contribute approximately 0.72 MGD of industrial
wastewater annually to the Hill Canyon TP. The City also has a fats, oils, and
grease (FOG) program and conducts inspections of its restaurants every two
years. The Hill Canyon TP has also been accepting FOG since 2007, from
haulers who submit a non-hazardous manifest, and use the FOG in the
anaerobic digesters to increase the production of methane and produce
renewable energy through the use of an internal combustion engine at the Hill
Canyon TP.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Hill Canyon TP begins with preliminary screening. The North
Influent line has a rock trap, located downstream of the north meter structure,
designed to capture rocks in the wastewater influent and prevent damage to
downstream treatment components. The North Influent and South Influent lines
have screens to remove heavy debris, rags, and trash. Grit is removed by funnel-
shaped equipment and is collected in a hopper. In the south headworks section
of the plant, ferric chloride is added to reduce the formation of hydrogen sulfide
gas. In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out, thickened, and returned to the
anaerobic digesters for additional treatment. Primary-treated wastewater is sent
to the splitter box, where Metalsorb PCZ is added to the treatment process to
reduce copper and nickel concentrations, just prior to entering the biological
nutrient removal (BNR) bioreactor basins. Approximately 5.5 gallons of the
chemical are dosed over a 24-hour period to achieve the partial removal of
ionized heavy metals in wastewater.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 05/28/2026 F-5
[Page 101]
CITY OF THOUSAND OAKS ORDER R4-2026-0152
HILL CANYON TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056294
2.1.4. In the Secondary Clarification treatment stage, wastewater that has received
primary clarification enters the activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen
removal using the Modified Ludzak-Ettinger (MLE) process. Glycerin is added to
enhance the denitrification process in the anoxic zone of the bioreactors.
Wastewater that has undergone the nitrification/denitrification process is sent to
Secondary Clarifier No. 2 or 3. Secondary Clarifier No.1 has been
decommissioned and is currently being used for onsite stormwater retention prior
to redirecting the captured stormwater for treatment. Secondary treated
wastewater is then sent to the tertiary filters for further treatment.
2.1.5. Equalization Basins, depicted as the yellow polygon in the upper left corner of the
process diagram, are used at the Hill Canyon TP to store wastewater to allow for
adjustments of flow of primary clarifier effluent to the MLE process and/or
headworks throughout the day. The Discharger captures stormwater runoff onsite,
stores it in the flow equalization basin, and treats the comingled stormwater on the
premises through its NPDES permit. Equalization basins help the system run
closer to a steady state condition.
2.1.6. Tertiary Filtration. The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended
or colloidal matter from a liquid stream. Filters remove the solids that the
secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability. The Hill Canyon TP has ten multi-media
tertiary filters (anthracite, sand and gravel). Filter backwash water is sent to a
holding tank, then to a spillway and back to the flow equalization basins.
2.1.7. Chlorination. The tertiary filtered effluent is dosed with Ammonium Sulfate and
Sodium Hypochlorite to form a chloramine, for disinfection, in the chlorine contact
chamber. The disinfecting agent remains in contact with the effluent for
approximately two and a half hours to destroy bacteria, pathogens, and viruses,
and to minimize algal growth.
2.1.8. Dechlorination. Prior to discharge to North Fork Arroyo Conejo, sodium bisulfite is
added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
2.1.9. Solids handling. Solids are reduced by three parallel mesophillic anaerobic
digesters. Grit, rags, and screenings from the headworks are hauled off-site for
disposal in a landfill. Sludge from secondary clarifiers is either pumped to the MLE
process (return activated sludge) or to the screw press for dewatering. Sludge
from the belt press is either sun dried at the Hill Canyon TP and hauled away, or
is hauled directly off the screw press to either of the following facilities: 1) South
Kern Industrial Center (SKIC) in Taft, California or 2) Liberty Composting in Lost
Hills, California.
2.1.10. Alternate Power Source. The Hill Canyon TP has two diesel generators that can
run the Hill Canyon TP in case of an electrical power outage. Each generator is
capable of powering the Facility independently, anywhere between six to ten
days, depending on how much fuel is stored onsite and based on the 50 gal/hr
generator diesel consumption rate. The Hill Canyon

===PLANNED CHANGES===

