[Page 85]
1. The Hill Canyon WWTP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather
design capacity of 14 mgd. The City’s wastewater collection system discharges into
gravity mainlines known as Unit W and Unit Y, but they are also referred to as South
Influent and North Influent, respectively. Influent undergoes preliminary treatment
through a rock baffle and step-stair screens, for debris and trash removal. Wastewater
undergoes primary clarification, nitrification and denitrification for biological nitrogen
removal (BNR), secondary clarification, flow equalization, filtration, disinfection using
sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 130,000 people. The wastewater is a
mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to
title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403 under the City of Thousand
Oaks’ Pretreatment Program, which was approved by USEPA on June 2, 1982, with
concurrence of the Regional Water Board. The City of Thousand Oaks’ pretreatment
program currently consists of eleven permitted nondomestic dischargers. All eleven are
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 5/8/2014, Amendment: 07/09/2015, Second Amendment:
12/21/2017) F-5
[Page 86]
CITY OF THOUSAND OAKS ORDER R4-2014-0064-A02
HILL CANYON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056294
classified as significant industrial users (SIUs) pursuant to 40 CFR 403.3(v). Nine of
them are categorical industrial users (CIUs): one is a pharmaceutical manufacturer under
40 CFR 439.16A; three are computer chip manufacturers under 40 CFR 469.18A; three
are printed circuit board manufacturers under 40 CFR 433.17; one is a steel
manufacturer under 40 CFR 433.15, and, one is a pharmaceutical producer under 40
CFR 439.17 A & D. The City also has a fats, oils, and grease (FOG) program and
conducts inspections of its restaurants twice a year.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment:
Primary clarification: In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out, thickened, and
returned to the anaerobic digesters for additional treatment. Primary-treated wastewater
is sent to the BNR basins.
Secondary Clarification: Wastewater that has received primary clarification enters the
activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen removal using the Modified Ludzak-Ettinger
(MLE) process. Wastewater that has undergone the nitrification/denitrificaton process is
sent to the secondary filters. Secondary treated wastewater is sent to the tertiary filters.
Equalization Basins: Equalization basins allow for adjustments of flow of primary
clarifier effluent to the MLE process and/or headworks throughout the day. They help the
system run closer to a steady state condition.
Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended or
colloidal matter from a liquid stream. Filters remove the solids that the secondary
sedimentation process did not remove, thereby improving the disinfection efficiency and
reliability. Filter backwash water is returned to the headworks for treatment.
Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite and aqueous ammonia are used as disinfectants in
the chlorine contact chamber. The disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent to
destroy bacteria, pathogens, and viruses, and to minimize algal growth.
Dechlorination: Prior to discharge to North Fork Arroyo Conejo, sodium bisulfite is
added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
Solids handling: Grit and screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a landfill. Sludge
from secondary clarifiers is either pumped to the MLE process (return activated sludge)
or to the gravity belt thickeners. Sludge from the belt press is either sun dried at HCTP
and hauled to a landfill or hauled directly to a landfill off the belt press.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Tertiary-treated wastewater is discharged to the North Fork Arroyo Conejo from Discharge
Point 005 (see table on cover page), a water of the United States, and tributary to Calleguas
Creek within Calleguas Creek Watershed. The City of Thousand Oaks also discharges
stormwater into the North Fork Arroyo Conejo from the Hill Canyon WWTP through
Discharge Ser

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Hill Canyon WWTP has successfully undergone changes with respect to nitrogen
removal, in order to comply with the Nutrient TMDL for Calleguas Creek Watershed. In
September 2007, the facility made plant modifications to include chloramination for the
reduction of disinfection byproducts from its effluent. At the present, no additional plant
changes are planned.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (CWC) (commencing with secti