[Page 80]
2. Treatment at the Valencia WRP consists of influent screening, primary sedimentation,
primary effluent equalization, activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and
denitrification (NDN), secondary clarification, free chlorination, inert media filtration,
chloramination and dechlorination. Treated wastewater discharged to the Santa Clara
River is dechlorinated.
3. Sodium hypochlorite is added to the nitrified filtered secondary treated effluent to form
chloramines by reacting with ammonia that is either already present or added to the
effluent. The chloramines inactivate bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and minimize the
formation of total trihalomethanes (TTHMs). Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added
to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
4. Biosolids from both the Valencia and the Saugus WRPs are processed at the Valencia
WRP and hauled offsite. Waste activated sludge from both the Saugus and Valencia
WRPs is thickened by dissolved air flotation. Thickened waste activated sludge and
primary sludge are combined, digested anaerobically, dewatered and then reused
through composting, although the permittee may also dispose of biosolids in a landfill or
by direct land application. Attachment C is a schematic of the Valencia WRP wastewater
flow.
5. The biological nutrient removal system at the Valencia WRP with nitrogen de-nitrification
process (NDN) complies with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The system was
started up in 2004 and was fully completed in 2007.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Valencia WRP discharges tertiary-treated municipal and industrial wastewater to the
Santa Clara River, a water of the United States, above the Estuary. Treated efflue

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Valencia WRP’s treatment system had been upgraded in the past to nitrify and de-nitrify
the effluent for ammonia-nitrogen and nitrate-nitrogen removal. Major plant upgrades are
proposed by the Permittee for the Valencia WRP to achieve compliance with the Upper
Santa Clara River Chloride TMDL. SCVSD proposes to implement the EIR alternative which
includes construction of ultra violet (UV) disinfection facilities and membrane filtration/reverse
osmosis (MF/RO) facilities with brine disposal via deep well injection (DWI) in order to attain
the chloride numeric target in Reach 5 of the Santa Clara River, downstream of the Valencia
WRP.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
Thi