[Page 95]
1. The Valencia WRP was recently upgraded and now nitrifies and denitrifies for
ammonia removal. Treatment consists of comminution, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, activated sludge treatment, secondary clarification, filtration,
chlorination and dechlorination.
2. Primary sludge is anaerobically digested and waste activated sludge is concentrated
by dissolved air flotation, blended with primary sludge, and aerobically digested.
The digested solids are thickened using a filter press. Dried solids are trucked away
off site either to a landfill or to a site for land application.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Tertiary-treated wastewater is discharged to the Santa Clara River from Discharge
Points 001 and 002 (see table on cover page), a water of the United States, and within
the Santa Clara River Watershed. The Santa Clarita Valley Sanitation District of Los
Angeles County also discharges stormwater into the Santa Clara River

[Page 99]
E. Planned Changes
The Valencia WRP’s treatment system has recently been upgraded with respect to
nitrogen removal, in order to comply with the Nutrient TMDL for Santa Clara River
Watershed. In addition, the plant’s phased design capacity expansion, from 17 MGD to
21.6 MGD, was completed in May 2005. As part of its effort to comply with the Upper
Santa Clara River Chloride Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL), the SCVSD is
considering conversion to ultraviolet (UV) disinfecting technology, in order to help
achieve compliance with the TMDL by avoiding the addition of chloride; a design
schedule has not yet been established.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Valencia WRP’s treatment system has recently been upgraded with respect to
nitrogen removal, in order to comply with the Nutrient TMDL for Santa Clara River
Watershed. In addition, the plant’s phased design capacity expansion, from 17 MGD to
21.6 MGD, was completed in May 2005. As part of its effort to comply with the Upper
Santa Clara River Chloride Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL), the SCVSD is
considering conversion to ultraviolet (UV) disinfecting technology, in order to help
achieve compliance with the TMDL by avoiding the addition of chloride; a design
schedule has not yet been established.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the fede