[Page 9]
2. Wastewater System Operation Summary
2.1. The Wastewater System provides municipal wastewater treatment and disposal
for the cities of Gilroy and Morgan Hill. Beginning in the mid- through April
1995, the Wastewater System used treatment via aerated ponds. During this
time, the Wastewater System consisted of two subsystems: one for treatment
and disposal of municipal wastewater from Gilroy and Morgan Hill that was
managed by SCRWA and the second for treatment and disposal of food
processor wastewater that was managed by Gilroy. In 1997, treatment of the
food process wastewater in the aerated ponds was discontinued. In 1999,
SCRWA purchased the ponds formerly used for food processor wastewater and
converted these ponds to municipal use.
2.2. Currently, the Wastewater System consists of pre-anoxic basins, oxidation
ditches, post-anoxic basins, a reaeration basin, and secondary clarifiers along
with a tertiary treatment plant with anthracite media filters and disinfection. These
processes are described in detail in Table 2. A membrane bioreactor (MBR) with
additional headworks is being constructed for parallel operation with the existing
oxidation ditches and clarifiers and will be permitted to operate after completion
and startup testing.
2.3. In its notice of intent, submitted on March 22, 2022, SCRWA states that the
Wastewater System can treat 8.5 gallons per day (MGD) as average dry weather
flow and 10.8 MGD average wet-weather flow to secondary standards. SCRWA
states that the Wastewater System can treat 9.0 million gallons per day (MGD) to
a Title 22 disinfected tertiary recycled water level. However, the Wastewater
System is expanding to include a membrane bioreactor that will increase the
Wastewater System capacity to secondary standards by 2.5 MGD to 11 MGD
average dry weather flow and 13.3 MGD average wet-weather flow for disposal
to the percolation ponds. The Central Coast Water Board is permitting the
operation and disposal of treated effluent as described below. SCRWA must not
change operation, treatment technology, or disposal methods without Central
Coast Water Board notification and review and Division of Drinking Water review
and approval for recycled water production components.
2.4. The Wastewater System is a Class V wastewater system. SCRWA must staff a
Grade V chief plant operator. As of the writing of this Notice of Applicability, the
current chief plant operator is John Edgar, Grade V, license number 42059.
- 2 -
[Page 10]
South County Regional Wastewater Authority May 4, 2026
Notice of Applicability for Permit R3-2020-0020
2.5. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment
capabilities shown in Table 2. The Wastewater System location, facility map, and
process flow diagram are depicted in figures 1 through 4 of Attachment 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology
Preliminary treatment consists of six raw influent pumps at
the influent pump station, two automatic bar racks, two
washer compactors, and an odor scrubber.
Headworks consists of two alternating bar screens with a
third manual screen receiving influent from the influent
pump station and the septage receiving station. Screened
solids are conveyed through a washer/compactor for
offsite disposal.
Screened effluent flows into an aerated grit removal
Headworks/Preliminary
chamber system with air-lift grit pumps, grit classifier,
Treatment
vortex grit separator, and odor scrubber.
The headworks was recently upgraded to divert flow to the
membrane bioreactor and provide fine screening through
two rotary drum screens to protect the downstream
membrane equipment.
The main influent pump station at the Southside Drive
headworks has a maximum daily flow capacity of 45 MGD,
of which up to 6 MGD can be diverted to the MBR
headworks.
- 3 -
[Page 11]
South County Regional Wastewater Authority May 4, 2026
Notice of Applicability for Permit R3-2020-0020
Secondary anoxic/oxic treatment consists of two treatment
trains running in parallel. Each treatment train has six pre-
anoxic basins, an oxidation ditch, and six anoxic recycle
pumps that return oxidized wastewater back to the pre-
anoxic basins. Treated oxidized effluent from each
treatment train is combined into a post-anoxic basin
followed by a reaeration basin.
Treated wastewater is split and clarified through one of
three clarifiers that run in parallel. Six pumps transfer
return activated sludge (RAS) back to the pre-anoxic
basins or to waste. Clarified wastewater is sent to a filter
pump station for either disposal or further treatment. This
process can treat 8.5 MGD average dry weather flow.
Secondary Treatment
(Two processes A new membrane bioreactor (MBR) operates in parallel
available) with the existing oxidation ditches, clarifier, and anthracite
filter system. However, the MBR has not been approved
by Division of Drinking water as of the date of this Notice
of Applicability; therefore, the MBR may not be used for
recycled water production until the Division of Drinking
Water provides acceptance. Wastewater treated by the
MBR may be disposed of in the percolation ponds.
The MBR consists of two membrane bioreactor process
trains that include anoxic/aeration zones, separate
submerged membrane tanks, two process air blowers, and
two membrane backwash pumps. Operation of the MBR
will increase the secondary treatment capacity to 11 MGD
average dry weather flow.
Tertiary treatment consists of four anthracite gravity filters,
two backwash pumps, four filter feed pumps, three utility
water pumps, and five reclamation pumps. An MBR
operates in parallel and conveys treated water to
ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The current tertiary treatment
capacity is 9 MGD average dry weather flow.
Tertiary Treatment
The MBR must not be used for recycled water production
until the MBR process has been reviewed and approved
by Division of Drinking Water. The average dry weather
flow of the MBR is 2.5 MGD.
- 4 -
[Page 12]
South County Regional Wastewater Authority May 4, 2026
Notice of Applicability for Permit R3-2020-0020
Disinfection for tertiary treatment is attained through a
chlorine contact basin (8 MGD average dry weather flow)
or a two-channel low-pressure high-intensity ultraviolet
(UV) reactor system (9 MGD average dry weather flow).
Both systems are available; however, UV disinfection will
Disinfection (Two
be utilized as the primary form of disinfection for water
processes available)
quality purposes. The UV system effluent can be pumped
to the chlorine contact basin. The chlorine contact basin
may act as an effluent basin when UV is operating as the
disinfection process.
Wastewater can be disposed of via 37 percolation ponds
with a combined area of 395 acres and an estimated
annual wet season average annual disposal capacity of 11
MGD. Each percolation pond covers between 5 to 25
acres. The total pond storage capacity is approximately
320 million gallons. Effluent is applied 6 to 12 inches deep
Wastewater Disposal so that water infiltrates within 12 days of application, and
Method then the disposal pond rests for at least two days before
re-application.
Recycled water that does not meet Title 22 Recycled
Water Criteria may be disposed of in the percolation ponds
as a contingency.
Biosolids and sludge are processed/dewatered via belt
filter press, which produces approximately 2,500 dry tons
annually.
Biosolids are disposed at:
Biosolids/Sludge
Synagro Central LLC
Production and
13757 South Harmon Road
Handling
Dos Palos, CA 93620 Tel (209) 725-2828
or
Liberty Composting, Inc
12421 Holloway Road PO BOX 309
Lost Hills, California 93249-0005
Permitted to produce up to 9.0 MGD of tertiary disinfected
recycled water.
Non-Potable Recycled
Water Production
The recycled water storage reservoir is lined and covered
and has a capacity of 3 million gallons.
- 5 -
[Page 13]
South County Regional Wastewater Authority May 4, 2026
Notice of Applicability for Permit R3-2020-

===PLANNED CHANGES===

