[Page 5]
Monterey Dunes Colony Association’s wastewater system is located between 0.6 and
1.2 miles north of the mouth of the Salinas River. Depth between leachfields and first-
encountered groundwater is approximately ten feet. The discharge area is located on
rolling sand dunes consisting of sandy soils to a depth of 14 feet.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system consists of nine septic tank-dual leachfields systems located
throughout Monterey Dunes Colony. A summary of the system is included in Table 2
below. A facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Septic Tanks & Disposal Methods
Design Influent Maximum Daily Flow 36,000 gallons per
day
Design Flows
Design Influent Monthly Average Flow 10,000 gallons per
day
Treatment Solid removal from the septic tank
Disposal Septic to dual leach field system
Biosolids/Sludge Sludge is pumped from the concrete septic tanks and
Production and hauled off to a biosolids composting facility on a
Handling semiannual basis.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Monterey Dunes Colony Association must operate the facility in accordance with the
General Order and this notice of applicability.3 Monterey Dunes Colony Mutual Water
Association must operate the Septic system to comply with the effluent limits below.
A. Effluent limits
Monterey Dunes Colony Association must comply with the site-specific limits listed in
Table 3.
3 General Order section B.1.b. states that treatment and disposal of wastewater must demonstrate best
practicable treatment or control for wastewater, which shall be demonstrated by compliance with the
General Order, effluent limits in the General Order, and compliance with site-specific limits set forth in this
notice of applicability.
- 2 -
[Page 6]
Monterey Dunes Colony Mutual Water Association May 5, 2022
Attachment 1
Table 3. Wastewater Limits Septic system
Point of Sample
Constituent Unit Limit
Compliance Location1
17,000 (monthly mean)
Maximum Flow gpd Effluent ES-1
36,000 ( daily flow)
B. Groundwater Limits
As stated in the General Permit, Section C, the discharge (septic system) must not
pollute groundwater or surface waters, adversely affect beneficial uses of groundwater,
or cause an exceedance of Basin Plan water quality objectives. Specifically, Monterey
Dunes Colony Association must manage the facility to comply with water quality
objectives for groundwater found in Section 3.3.4 of the Water Quality Control Plan for
the Central Coastal Basin (Basin Plan).4 These objectives include:
1) General objectives for taste and odors and radioactivity for all groundwaters.
2) Because the receiving groundwater has a designated use of municipal and
domestic supply, objectives for bacteria and organic chemicals, inorganic
chemicals, and radionuclides, which are established at the drinking water
maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) as defined in California Code of
Regulations, title 22, division 4, chapter 15 2.
3) The facility does not discharge into a designated groundwater basin, so there
are no groundwater basin-specific objectives.
The Central Coast Water Board does not require first-encountered groundwater
monitoring wells at this time but may require installation of groundwater monitoring wells
in the future.
4 Current edition, June 2019 is available at:
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/publications_forms/publications/basin_pla
n/docs/2019_basin_plan_r3_complete.pdf
- 3 -
[Page 7]
ATTACHMENT 2
FIGURES
Figure 1. Site Location Map
- 1 -
[Page 8]
Figure 2. Site Map
- 2 -
[Page 9]
Dual Leach
Field System
Septic Tanks
Figure 3. Dispersal System Layout
- 3 -
[Page 10]
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL COAST REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R3-2022-0038
for
MONTEREY DUNES COLONY MUTUAL WATER ASSOCIATION
MONTEREY COUNTY
This monitoring and reporting program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater treatment system for Monterey Dunes Colony Mutual Water Associ

===PLANNED CHANGES===

