[Page 74]
2. Treatment at the Los Coyotes WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated sludge
biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, free
chlorination, inert media filtration, chloramination, and dechlorination. Treated
wastewater discharged to San Gabriel River is dechlorinated.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (ADOPTED: 6/11/2015) F-4
[Page 75]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER NO. R4-2015-0124
LOS COYOTES WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054011
3. Gaseous chlorine and ammonia are used as disinfectants at the Los Coyotes WRP.
Disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria,
pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional disinfectant
may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. Prior to discharge, sulfur
dioxide and/or sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual
chlorine.
4. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal occurs, under Order No. R4-2011-0151 (NPDES No.
CA0053813). Attachment C is a schematic of the Los Coyotes WRP wastewater flow.
5. The Permittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with nitrogen de-
nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan
objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since 2003.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Los Coyotes WRP discharges tertiary treated wastewater to the San Gabriel River, a
water of the United States. Treated effluents are discharged from the plant to surfa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee is planning to replace the existing chlorine and sulfur dioxide disinfection and
dechlorination facilities with sodium hypochlorite and sodium bisulfite facilities. The project
entails the construction of new chemical facilities consisting of chemical storage tanks,
secondary containment structures, piping and chemical feed, automated flow control valves
and piping for metering; the decommissioning of the existing chlorine and sulfur dioxide
facilities; and the demolition of the existing emergency caustic scrubbers used to treat
chlorine and sulfur dioxide gas leaks. The estimated start of construction is the fall of 2015
with completion in approximately 1 year.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The r