[Page 6]
26. On November 6, 2013, the Discharger submitted "Action Plan Progress Report for
Limoneira Company" (Progress Report). In the Progress Report, the Discharger
provided details regarding the monitoring well installation, groundwater quality data, the
lining of the six unlined settling ponds, aeration ponds and evaporation ponds serving
the two treatment systems located in the Limoneira Ranch, and construction updates for
the wastewater collection lift station, wastewater collection forcemain, and the
connection of the new forcemain to the Limoneira WVVTP. The updates are as follows:
a. In July 2013, four (4) monitoring wells were constructed in the vicinity of the
Limoneira Wastewater Treatment Plant and another four (4) monitoring wells were
constructed in the Orchard Farm Alfalfa Field. In addition, three (3) monitoring wells,
two downgradient and one upgradient from the existing Olivelands Ranch
wastewater treatment, were attempted and did not encounter groundwater to the
depth of 75 feet below ground surface (bgs). Groundwater samples were collected
from the eight (8) completed wells and the laboratory analysis results were submitted
to the Regional Board on November 6, 2013.
b. In August 2013, three of the six evaporation/percolation ponds adjacent to the
Limoneira WVVTP were drained and then lined with a high density polyethylene
(HOPE) impermeable liner. The lining of the remaining three ponds was completed in
November 2013.
27. In September 2013, a 4-feet diameter by 10 -feet deep wastewater collection lift station
and 6,200-linear feet of 4-inch wastewater forcemain were constructed in the Olivelands
Ranch. The Olivelands Ranch's wastewater forcemain was connected to the Limoneira
Ranch forcemain, which carries all wastewater to the Limoneira Ranch WVVTP.
28. In January 2014, a forcemain was constructed in the Limoneira Ranch connecting Imhoff
No. 1 and Imhoff No 2 to the Limoneira WVVTP.
29. The lift station was completed in February 2014, as such the Olivelands Ranch
treatment system was decommissioned and the ponds were backfilled at the end of
February 2014.
[Page 7]
Limoneira Company Order No. R4-2014-0040
Page 6
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
30. The Limoneira \N\NTP and lined evaporation and storage ponds are located about 1, 900
feet east of Todd Barranca Creek and 9,900 feet northwest of Santa Clara River in
Section 19, Township 3N, and Range 21W, based on the San Bernardino Base &
Meridian (Figure 9. Limoneira wastewater treatment plant flow chart). Limoneira WWTP
approximate latitude is 34° 19' 42.6" N; and the longitude is 119° 06' 40.5" W.
31. The site is located in an unsewered area of Ventura County. To date no public sewers
have been scheduled for construction in the vicinity of the project.
32. The wastewater generated from the citrus fruit washing that stems from the packing
houses operations, and domestic wastewater generated from the restrooms located in
the packing house, administration building, and residential housing units located in the
Limoneira Ranch Main Campus area are treated at the Limoneira \N\NTP.
33. The domestic wastewater generated from the Limoneira Ranch residential houses is
collected through underground piping utilizing gravity flow. The raw wastewater flows by
gravity from the source to the existing Imhoff No. 1 and Imhoff No. 2, where it gets
partially treated. The partially treated wastewater from the Imhoff tanks is then pumped
into the Limoneira wastewater treatment plant for further treatment.
34. Furthermore, the domestic wastewater generated from the Olivelands Ranch residential
houses is collected through underground piping utilizing gravity flow. The raw
wastewater flows from the source to the Limoneira \N\NTP for treatment.
35. The Limoneira \N\NTP treats up to 15,000 gpd of domestic wastewater from the
restrooms located in the packing house, administration building, and residential housing
units, and 75,000 gpd of rinse wastewater from the citrus fruit washing at the packing
house. The system uses extended aeration for treatment and consists of a concrete
tank with a capacity of 180,000 gallons. The tank is divided into three stages. The first
stage consists of two solid and liquid separation chambers, the second stage consists of
two aeration chambers, and the third stage consists of two settling chambers. Rinse
water is municipal water supplied by the City of Santa Paula to rinse the fruit as it is
taken out of storage.
36. The treated wastewater is discharged to lined Pond No. 1, then to Pond No. 2, follow by
Pond No. 3, and subsequently to Pond No. 4, and Pond No. 5 for evaporation and
storage. There is no more percolation because all six ponds were lined.
37. Then treated wastewater (effluent) from Pond No. 5 flows though the sand filters and
then a chlorination chamber for chlorine disinfection. After disinfection, the effluent is
pumped to the alfalfa and hay field in the Orchard Farm for irrigation.
38. Pond No. 6 is also lined and serves as backup/overflow pond, which provides sufficient
capacity for treated wastewater storage during rainfall and/or in the event of plant upsets
or outages.
39. The Limoneira wastewater treatment plant uses extended aeration for treatment and
consists of a concrete tank with a capacity of 180,000 gallons. It was design to produce
[Page 8]
Limoneira Company Order No. R4-2014-0040
Page 7
secondary wastewater for discharge to groundwater via spray irrigation. The total
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant has not changed as they are discharging
under designed capacity.
40. The current Limoneira WWTP has sufficient capacity for the expansion pr

[Page 9]
49. Groundwater beneath the Limoneira Company is contained in alluvial flood plain and fan
deposits. Groundwater levels and flow directions beneath the site are controlled by these
deposits. The shallow aquifer beneath the northern portion of the site is comprised of
predominantly fine-grained fan deposits. The shallow aquifer in the southern portion of
the site consists of coarse-grained fluvial sediments deposited by the Santa Clara River.
50. The soils consist of interbedded clay and silty clay; clayey silt and silt; and silty sand,
sand, gravelly sand and minor amounts of cobbles. In general, the earth materials
contain more coarse interbeds toward the Santa Clara River. The predominantly fine
grained soils (clay and silt) encountered in the northwestern portion

===PLANNED CHANGES===

