[Page 5]
8. Treatment at the San Jose Creek WRP currently consists of primary sedimentation,
nitrification-denitrification (NDN) activated sludge biological treatment, secondary
sedimentation with coagulation, inert media filtration, chlorination and dechlorination. No
facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated from the
wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for treatment and
disposal. Figures 2A and 2B depict schematics of the San Jose Creek East and West
WRP wastewater flows.
In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives, the Districts
began the conversion of San Jose Creek East WRP to NDN operating mode in August
2000. As of June 12, 2003, San Jose Creek East and West WRPs have been in full NDN
mode, and 100% of the effluent discharged to the San Jose Creek and/or the San Gabriel
River has undergone full treatment including NDN treatment. Even though the San Jose
Creek East is operating in full NDN mode, NDN-related construction, which includes
expansion of the return activated sludge (RAS) stations and modifications to the aeration
tanks, is still occurring. Modifications to the aeration tanks require the diversion of some
influent flow from San Jose Creek East to San Jose Creek West and thus, starting on
October 6, 2003, approximately 6 mgd of flow is being diverted from San Jose Creek East
2
[Page 6]
County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County CA0053911
San Jose Creek Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2004-0097
to San Jose Creek West. The diversion is anticipated to end when the aeration work is
completed by June 2004.
However, recent scientific investigations have found that the disinfection of the filtered
activated sludge NDN effluent and increased polymer dosing generates n-
nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) as a byproduct. To date, ultra violet (UV) oxidation is the
only available technology capable of destroying NDMA in wastewater. Currently, CSDLAC
is conducting a UV disinfection pilot project at the Whittier Narrows WRP in an effort to
eliminate in-plant generation of NDMA. Pending the outcome of this pilot study, the
disinfection process at the San Jose Creek WRP, and other CSDLAC WRPs, may be
changed from chlorination to UV. The purpose of installing and operating the UV
disinfection systems, will be to restore NDMA concentrations to their pre-NDN levels, for
the continued protection of local groundwater, and to prevent the formation of other
chlorination disinfection byproducts, such as cyanide and trihalomethanes.
9. Water Recycling Facility. During 2002, the Discharger recycled approximately 5% (33
million gallons of treated effluent per year) from the San Jose Creek East WRP and 11%
(39 million gallons of treated effluent per year) from the San Jose Creek West WRP, and
plans to continue doing so. The production, distribution, and reuse of recycled water ar

[Page 6]
11. The San Jose Creek WRP discharges tertiary-treated wastewater via two discharge points
(001 and 003) to the San Gabriel River, above the estuary, within the San Gabriel River
Watershed. Tertiary-treated effluent is also discharged via one discharge point (002) to
San Jose Creek, a tributary of the San Gabriel River. Existing points of discharge are as
follows:
A. Discharge Serial No. 001: Discharge to San Gabriel River from both the East and
West San Jose Creek WRPs (approximate coordinates: Latitude 33° 55' 50" and
Longitude 118° 06' 24"). Discharge No. 001 is the primary discharge outfall and is
3
[Page 7]
County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County CA0053911
San Jose Creek Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2004-0097
located approximately eight miles south of the plant, near Firestone Boulevard.
From this point, treated effluent flows directly to a lined, low flow channel (San
Gabriel River) and travels about 9 miles prior to reaching the estuary.
The outfall pipe is also used to deliver reclaimed water for groundwater recharge
under a separate permit. A turnout (approximate coordinates: Latitude 33° 59' 39"
and Longitude 118° 04' 24") located approximately midway down the pipe is used to
divert reclaimed water to the San Gabriel River Spreading Grounds. CSDLAC
proposes to discharge reclaimed water through this turnout into the San Gabriel
River through Rubber Dam No. 2, which will not be used at all times. CSDLAC
intends to increase flexibility in the Montebello Forebay Spreading Operations.
Figure 1 shows the locations of the following proposed discharge points.
a. Discharger Serial No. 001A (approximate coordinates: Latitude 33° 59' 39" and
Longitude 118° 04' 24"): Treated effluent from Discharge No. 001A is allowed to
recharge groundwater underneath the unlined San Gabriel River, when the
headworks of the spreading grounds are unavailable due to maintenance or
other constraints. Otherwise, none of the reclaimed water can be used for
recharge and all of it will flow to Discharge Serial No 001.
b. Discharger Serial No. 001B (approximate coordinates: Latitude 33° 58' 14" and
Longitude 118° 05' 18"): Treated effluent from Discharge Serial No. 001B
increases the groundwater recharge in the vicinity through th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

