[Page 3]
5. Treatment at the San Jose Creek WRP currently consists of primary sedimentation,
nitrification-denitrification (NDN) activated sludge biological treatment, secondary
sedimentation with coagulation, inert media filtration, chlorination and dechlorination.
No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal. Figures 2A and 2B depict schematics of the San Jose Creek
East and West WRP wastewater flows.
A. Primary sedimentation - The main objective of primary sedimentation is to
remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids (settleable
solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin.
The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids
remain in suspension.
B. NDN activated sludge - The NDN activated sludge treatment system in which
the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc (microorganisms,
bugs, or activated sludge) is processed in an aeration basin. Activated sludge
converts non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc,
which can then be removed from the wastewater with further treatment. The
nitrification process converts ammonia nitrogen into nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen
(inorganic nitrogen). The denitrification process converts the inorganic nitrogen
into gaseous nitrogen, thus removing it from the wastewater.
C. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation - The main objective of secondary
sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater. Chemicals, such
as aluminum sulfate (alum), may be added as part of the treatment process to
enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological floc to combine into larger
F-4
[Page 4]
County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County CA0053911
San Jose Creek Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2004-0097
Waste Discharge Requirements Fact Sheet
clumps (coagulate). This makes it easier to remove the floc.
D. Mixed dual media filtration - The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through
a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the secondary
sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the disinfection efficiency
and reliability.
E. Chlorination - Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the San Jose
Creek WRP. Disinfectant is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to
destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the
filters. Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the chlorine contact tank.
F. Dechlorination - Sulfur dioxide is added to neutralize the chlorine prior to the
treated water discharged to the San Gabriel River and San Jose Creek.
In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives, the Districts
began the conversion of San Jose Creek East WRP to NDN operating mode in August
2000. As of June 12, 2003, San Jose Creek East and West WRPs are in full NDN
mode, and 100% of the effluent discharged to the San Jose Creek and/or the San
Gabriel River has undergone full treatment including NDN treatment. Even though the
San Jose Creek East is operating in full NDN mode, NDN-related construction, which
includes expansion of the return activated sludge (RAS) stations and modifications to
the aeration tanks, is still occurring. Modifications to the aeration tanks require the
diversion of some influent flow from San Jose Creek East to San Jose Creek West and
thus, starting on October 6, 2003, approximately 6 mgd of flow is being diverted from
San Jose Creek East to San Jose Creek West. The diversion is anticipated to end
when the aeration work is completed by June 2004.
However, recent scientific investigations have found that the disinfection of the filtered
activated sludge NDN effluent and increased polymer dosing generates n-
nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) as a byproduct. To date, ultra violet (UV) oxidation is the
only available technology capable of destroying NDMA in wastewater. Currently,
CSDLAC is conducting a UV disinfection pilot project at the Whittier Narrows WRP in
an effort to eliminate in-plant generation of NDMA. Pending the outcome of this pilot
study, the disinfection process at the San Jose Creek WRP, and other CSDLAC WRPs,
may be changed from chlorination to UV. The purpose of installing and operating the
UV disinfection systems, will be to restore NDMA concentrations to their pre-NDN
levels, for the continued protection of local groundwater, and to prevent the formation of
other chlorination disinfection byproducts, such as cyanide and trihalomethanes.
6. Water Recycling Facility. During 2002, the Discharger recycled approximately 5%
(33 million gallons of treated effluent per year) from the San Jose Creek East WRP
and 11% (39 million gallons of treated effluent per year) from the San Jose Creek
West WRP, and plans to continue doing so. The production, distribution, and reuse
of recycled water ar

[Page 5]
1. The San Jose Creek WRP discharges tertiary-treated wastewater via two discharge
points (001 and 003) to the San Gabriel River, above the estuary, within the San
Gabriel River Watershed. Tertiary-treated effluent is also discharged via one
discharge point (002) to San Jose Creek, a tributary of the San Gabriel River.
Existing points of discharge are as follows:
A. Discharge Serial No. 001: Discharge to San Gabriel River from both the East
and West San Jose Creek WRPs (approximate coordinates: Latitude 33° 55'
50" and Longitude 118° 06' 24"). Discharge No. 001 is the primary discharge
outfall and is located approximately eight miles south of the plant, near
Firestone Boulevard. From this point, treated effluent flows directly to a lined,
low flow channel (San Gabriel River) and travels about 9 miles prior to reaching
the estuary.
The outfall pipe is also used to deliver reclaimed water for groundwater
recharge under a separate permit. A turnout (approximate coordinates:
Latitude 33° 59' 39" and Longitude 118° 04' 24") located approximately midway
down the pipe is used to divert reclaimed water to the San Gabriel River
Spreading Grounds. CSDLAC proposes to discharge reclaimed water through
this turnout into the San Gabriel River through Rubber Dam No. 2, which will
not be used at all times. CSDLAC intends to increase flexibility in the
Montebello Forebay Spreading Operations. Figure 3 shows the locations of the
following proposed discharge points.
a. Discharger Serial No. 001A (approximate coordinates: Latitude 33° 59' 39"
and Longitude 118° 04' 24"): Treated effluent from Discharge No. 001A is
allowed to recharge groundwater underneath the unlined San Gabriel
River, when the headworks of the spreading grounds are unavailable due
F-6
[Page 6]
County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County CA0053911
San Jose Creek Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2004-0097
Waste Discharge Requirements Fact Sheet
to maintenance or other constraints. Otherwise, none of the reclaimed
water can be used for recharge and all of it will flow to Discharge Serial
No 001.
b. Discharger Serial No. 001B (approxima

===PLANNED CHANGES===

