[Page 4]
12. The PWS consists of several wells, one 10,000 gallon blending tank for raw well water, a
vendor-maintained water softening and reverse osmosis treatment system, one 126,000
gallon holding tank to store softened and treated water, a pump station, and a distribution
system. The vendor-maintained reverse osmosis system provides 1,200 gallons per day of
high quality drinking water at the faucet located at the end of the laundry facility. Water
pressure is maintained by a water booster pump station located at the 126,000 gallon
holding tank and by hydro-pneumatic pressure tanks. The brine waste is hauled away for
offsite disposal.
13. There are two types of water furnished to the residents. The first type,

[Page 5]
15. The wastewater treatment system was manufactured by Aer-0-Flo Corporation. It is an
activated sludge type with extended aeration process, capable of treating 40,000 gallons
per day of domestic sewage. The existing wastewater treatment plant includes
sedimentation and aeration together with secondary clarification followed by disinfection.
Disinfection is achieved by chlorination. Figure 3 shows the schematic diagram of the
treatment process.
16. Treated effluent from the treatment plant is currently being discharged to a primary spray
disposal area. Under normal conditions, .treated effluent is discharged directly from the
wastewater treatment plant to the spray disposal area.
17. Under Order No. 89-029, treated effluent was to be discharged to an oxidation holding pond
with 10 day capacity and/or pumped to the spray disposal area for final disposal. However,
the holding pond was not being used and that the holding pond is no longer part of the
Facility. At present, the Facility does not have emergency and/or wet weather storage
capability.
18. The Facility uses a 500 gallon holding tank located at the Facility to store treated effluent.
This is also the effluent sampling point. The holding tank is equipped with a float that
triggers the spraying of the secondary treated effluent to the disposal spray area.
19.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

