[Page 5]
6. The treatment at the LAG WRP currently consists of barscreen removal of large
solids, primary sedimentation, conventional activated sludge process, secondary
sedimentation with coagulation, dual-media and deep bed sand filtration, and
chlorination with sodium hypochlorite solution. No facilities are provided for solids
processing at the LAG WRP. Sewage solids separated from the wastewater are
returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to NOS for treatment and disposal.
Figure 2 is a schematic of the LAG WRP wastewater flow.
A. Primary sedimentation. The main objective of primary sedimentation is to
remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids
(settleable solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary
sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed
off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
B. NDN Activated sludge. The activated sludge process is a treatment system
in which the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc
(microorganisms, bugs, or activated sludge) in an aeration basin.
Activated sludge converts non-settleable and dissolved organic
F-6
[Page 6]
Los Angeles Glendale Water Reclamation Plant CA0053953
Fact Sheet
contaminants into biological floc, which can then be removed from the
wastewater with further treatment. The nitrification process converts
ammonia nitrogen into nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen (inorganic nitrogen). The
denitrification process converts the inorganic nitrogen into gaseous
nitrogen, thus removing it from the wastewater.
C. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation. The main objective of
secondary sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater.
Chemicals, such as aluminum sulfate (alum) and polymer, may be added
as part of the treatment process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes
the biological floc to combine into larger clumps (coagulate). This makes it
easier to remove the floc.
D. Dual media and deep bed sand filtration. The filtration process is used to
remove or reduce suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by
passing the water through a bed of sand material. Filters remove the solids
that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving
the disinfection efficiency and reliability.
E. Chlorination. Sodium hypochlorite is used as disinfectant at the LAGWRP.
Disinfectant is added to the treated effluent to destroy bacteria, pathogens
and viruses.
F. Dechlorination. Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated
effluent to remove residual chlorine.
G. Sludge. No facilities are provided for solids processed at the plant. All
sewage solids separated from the wastewater are returned to the trunk
sewer for conveyance to the City’s North Outfall Sewer (NOS), where
treatment and disposal occur, under the Hyperion Wastewater Treatment
Plant’s NPDES permit.
In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives, the City
has constructed a Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) system. Upon completion of
the BNR, the City will begin operation of the facility in an ammonia removal mode
with a Nitrification de-Nitrification process (NDN). The completion date of the
NDN system is expected in May 2007, thereafter, the start up and 90-day testing
of the system will begin.
7. Water Recycling Facility. A portion of the treated wastewater is used for
irrigation and industrial uses. The use of recycled water is regulated under Water
Reclamation Requirements contained in Order No. 79-156. Order No. 7

===PLANNED CHANGES===

