[Page 76]
1. The Discharger and the City of Glendale jointly own the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP.
However, the Discharger is granted sole authority to operate Los Angeles-Glendale WRP
pursuant to the Joint Powers Agreement between the two cities. The Los Angeles-
Glendale WRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant is located at 4600 Colorado
Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. Attachment B shows the location of the plant. The
Los Angeles-Glendale WRP currently receives wastewater from the cities of Glendale,
Burbank, Los Angeles, La Cañada Flintridge, and from Los Angeles Zoo. The
wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. Los Angeles-Glendale WRP has a design capacity of 20
mgd and serves an estimated population of 434,000 people.
The Los Angeles-Glendale WRP is part of the City of Los Angeles’ integrated network of
facilities, known as the North Outfall Sewer (NOS), which includes four treatment plants.
The upstream treatment plants (Tillman WRP, Los Angeles-Glendale WRP, and Burbank
WRP) discharge solids to the Hyperion Treatment Plant. This system also allows
biosolids, solids, and excess flows to be diverted from the upstream plants to the
Hyperion Wastewater Treatment Plant for treatment and disposal. All solids removed
from the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP treatment process are returned untreated to the
NOS for downstream treatment at the Hyperion Treatment Plant
2. Treatment at the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP consists of barscreen removal of large
solids, primary sedimentation, activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and
denitrification, secondary sedimentation with coagulation, dual media and deep bed sand
filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. Treated wastewater discharged to the Los
Angeles River is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered for reuse is not dechlorinated.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (ADOPTED: 3/02/2017) F-4
[Page 77]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2017-0063
LOS ANGELES-GLENDALE WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053953
3. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP. The
disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria,
pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Prior to discharge,
sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
4. No facilities are provided for solids processed at the plant. Sewage solids separated from
the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to NOS, where treatment
and disposal occur, under Hyperion Wastewater Treatment Plant’s NPDES permit.
Attachment C is a schematic of the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP wastewater flow.
5. The City of Los Angeles has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with
nitrogen de-nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since June
2007.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Los Angeles-Glendale WRP discharges tertiary-treated municipal wastewater to the
Los Angeles River, a water of the United States, above the Estuary. Treated eff

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The following table presents LAGWRP’s planned changes.
Table F-5. Scheduled Improvement and Schedules of Implementation
Project Name Project Summary Start Date End Date
LAG - Primary Effluent Project will construct two (2) 2.5 million gallon 1/01/2016 3/31/2020
Equalization Storage equalization tanks at Los Angeles Glendale water
reclamation plant to store effluent for establishing
uniform flow levels.
LAG - Ammonium Hydroxide This project relocates chemical lines above 11/01/2013 7/12/2017
Piping ground at LAG.
LAG - Bisulfite Facility The scope of this project is to replace the two (2) 8/1/2014 11/1/2018
Improvements Bisulfite tanks and all associated piping at LAG
with heat traced and insulated tanks. Power
needs to be provided to the tanks to insure the
heat tracing is maintained continually.
LAG - Blower Air Cleanup Install new Biotrickling Filter system including fans 3/1/2015 3/31/2019
System and ducting.
LAG - Channel 4 Diversion Install new diversion gate to divert plant flow to an 11/1/2014 2/28/2019
Gate in-plant sewer during emergencies.
LAG - Personnel Building This project will design and construct an 1/2/2015 10/29/2019
estimated 7,000 sq. ft. building for LAG
personnel.
LAG - Cover Plates & Due to safety concerns, replace all