[Page 96]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP, a tertiary wastewater
treatment plant located at 4600 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. Attachment
B shows the location of the plant. The Los Angeles-Glendale WRP currently receives
wastewater from the cities of Glendale, Burbank, Los Angeles, La Cañada Flintridge, and
from Los Angeles Zoo. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater
that is pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. Los Angeles-Glendale WRP has a
design capacity of 20 mgd and serves an estimated population of 380,000 people.
The Los Angeles-Glendale WRP is part of the City of Los Angeles’ integrated network of
facilities, known as the North Outfall Sewer (NOS), which includes four treatment plants.
The upstream treatment plants (Tillman WRP, Los Angeles-Glendale WRP, and Burbank
WRP) discharge solids to the Hyperion Treatment Plant. This system also allows
biosolids, solids, and excess flows to be diverted from the upstream plants to the Hyperion
Wastewater Treatment Plant for treatment and disposal. All solids removed from the Los
Angeles-Glendale WRP treatment process are returned untreated to the NOS for
downstream treatment at the Hyperion Treatment Plant.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Treatment at the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP consists of barscreen removal of large
solids, primary sedimentation, activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification
and denitrification, secondary sedimentation with coagulation, dual media and deep
bed sand filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. Treated wastewater discharged
to Los Angeles River is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered for reuse is not
dechlorinated.
2. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP.
The disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Prior to
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Adopted: December 8, 2011) F-4
[Page 97]
City of Los Angeles ORDER NO. R4-2011-0197
Los Angeles-Glendale Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA0053953
discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual
chlorine.
3. No facilities are provided for solids processed at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to NOS, where
treatment and disposal occur, under Hyperion Wastewater Treatment Plant’s
NPDES permit. Attachment C is a schematic of the Los Angeles-Glendale WRP
wastewater flow.
4. City of Los Angeles has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with
nitrogen de-nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the
ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in
operation since June 2007.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Los Angeles-Glendale WRP discharges tertiary-treated municipal to the Los
Angeles River, a water of the United States, above the Estuary. Treated effluents are
dis

===PLANNED CHANGES===

