[Page 103]
1. The treatment system at the Tillman WRP currently consists of grit removal,
screening, flow equalization, primary sedimentation, nitrification and
denitrification (NDN) activated sludge biological treatment with fine pore aeration,
secondary clarification, coagulation, aqua diamond cloth filtration, disinfection by
chlorination with the addition of ammonium hydroxide, and dechlorination. No
facilities are provided for solids processing at the Tillman WRP. Solids from the
Facility are returned to the collection system for processing at the Hyperion
Treatment Plant. Solids returned to the sewer consist of grit, primary and
secondary sludge and skimmings, and filter backwash (approximately 10 MGD).
Attachment B is the schematic of wastewater flow.
In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia water quality objectives
(WQOs) specified in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region
(Basin Plan), the City tested different NDN treatments, including Modified
Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE) Process, Enhanced Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (eMLE)
Process, and Step-Feed Process. The City completed construction of the NDN
treatment facility with the MLE Process in September 2007, and took 90 days to
optimize operation of the NDN facilities.
a. Grit removal – Grit removal is used to remove as much sand and silt as
possible to prevent wear on pumps; accumulations in aeration tanks,
clarifiers, and digesters; and clogging of sludge piping.
b. Screen – Screens are used in the wastewater treatment plant to remove
coarse solids, such as wood, plastic materials, and rags.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 104]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER NO. R4-2011-0196
DONALD C. TILLMAN WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056227
c. Flow equalization – Flow equalization basins provide a relatively
constant flow rate to the subsequent treatment operations and processes,
enhancing the degree of treatment. Not only does equalization dampen
the daily variation in the flow rate, but it also dampens the variation in the
concentration of effluent five-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20oC
(BOD o ), total suspended solids (TSS), and so on, through the day.
5@20 C
d. Primary sedimentation – The main objective of primary sedimentation is
to remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids
(settleable solids) precipitate and are scraped out of the primary
sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed
off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
e. NDN activated sludge biological treatment – Air generated from six
compressors and delivered via pipe ducts to the aeration basin provides
oxygen for the nitrification process. Activated sludge converts non-
settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc, which
can then be removed from the wastewater with further treatment.
f. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation – The main objective of
secondary sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater.
Chemicals, such as aluminum sulfate (alum) and polymer, may be added
as part of the treatment process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes
the biological floc to combine into larger clumps (coagulate), thus making
them easier to remove.
g. Aqua diamond cloth filtration – The filtration process is used to remove
or reduce suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream by passing
the water through cloth media. Cloth media is completely submerged
during filtration. Solids are deposited on the outside of the cloth as the
influent wastewater flows through. The filtered effluent is collected inside
the diamond lateral to discharge. Cloth media remove the solids that the
secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the
efficiency and reliability of the following disinfection process.
h. Chlorination with ammonium hydroxide added – Sodium hypochlorite
and ammonium hydroxide are used as disinfectants at the Tillman WRP.
Ammonium hydroxide reacts with sodium hypochlorite to form chloramine.
This disinfection process reduces the formation of trihalomethanes and
cyanide. Disinfectant is added into the effluent of aqua diamond cloth
filtration (prior to the chlorine contact basin) in order to destroy bacteria,
pathogens and viruses.
i. Dechlorination – Sodium bisulfate is added to neutralize the chlorine
prior to the discharge of treated water to the Los Angeles River.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 105]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER NO. R4-2011-0196
DONALD C. TILLMAN WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056227
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Tillman WRP is located within the Sepulveda Dam Basin. The 100-year
flood water s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Tillman WRP's treatment system has been upgraded with respect to nitrogen
removal since September of 2007, in order to comply with the Basin Plan WQOs for
ammonia nitrogen.
To better maintain storm flows and avoid sewer overflows, the City plans to
construct an in-plant storage system consisting of lined concrete basins, associated
structures and auxiliary piping to provide 15.2 million gallons (MG) of wet weather
storage capacity. Additionally, piping and valve modifications to the existing Phase II
primary sedimentation and aeration tanks will provide equalization capacity for
diurnal flow and up to 4.8 MG additional wet weather storage capacity. The basins
will be used only as temporary relief storage and will not provided additional
treatment. Temporary relief storage will be used to relieve the sewer system during
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-14
[Page 113]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER NO. R4-2011-0196
DONALD C. TILLMAN WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA00