[Page 4]
IV. DESCRIPTION OF FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS
1. The Tillman WRP is a publicly owned treatment work (POTW) owned and operated by
the City's Department of Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation. The Tillman WRP is
located at 6100 Woodley Avenue, Van Nuys, California. Figure 1 is the vicinity map for
the Tillman WRP. The Plant consists of two identical treatment trains, each with a dry
weather average design capacity of 40 million gallons per day (mgd), for a total 80
mgd. In 2005, the total tertiary-treated municipal wastewater discharged to the Los
Angeles River, at Van Nuys, California, was approximately 38 mgd.
2. The Tillman WRP is one of the three upstream water reclamation plants in the Hyperion
Service Area (HSA) owned by the City of Los Angeles. The other two upstream plants
are the Los Angeles/Glendale Water Reclamation Plant and the Burbank Water
F-5
[Page 5]
City of Los Angeles CA0056227
Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant
Fact Sheet
Reclamation Plant.
The Bureau maintains and operates the Hyperion Treatment System which collects,
treats, and processes municipal wastewater from domestic, commercial, and industrial
sources from the entire city (except the Terminal Island Service Area surrounding the
Los Angeles Harbor area) and from a number of cities and other agencies under
contractual agreements. Sewage enters the Tillman WRP via both the Additional Valley
Outfall Relief Sewer (AVORS) and the East Valley Interceptor Sewer (EVIS) from the
communities of Chatsworth, Canoga Park, West Hills, Woodland Hills, Northridge,
Granada Hills, and Van Nuys, and from the City of San Fernando, the Las Virgenes
Municipal Water District, and the Triunfo Canyon Sanitation District under contractual
agreements. There are approximately 4 million people living in the Hyperion Service
Area with approximately one million people in the San Fernando Valley served by the
Tillman Plant.
In case of plant operational problems or a need for plant shutdown, wastewater can be
diverted back to the AVORS for treatment at the Hyperion Treatment Plant.
3. The treatment system at the Tillman WRP currently consists of grit removal, screening,
flow equalization, primary sedimentation, nitrification and denitrification (NDN)
activated sludge biological treatment with fine pore aeration, secondary clarification,
coagulation, mixed dual media filtration (Hardinge Filters), disinfection by chlorination,
and dechlorination. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Solids
from the Plant are returned to the collection system for ultimate treatment and
processing at the Hyperion Treatment Plant. Solids returned to the sewer consist of
grit, primary and secondary sludge and skimmings, and filter backwash (approximately
10 mgd). Figure 2 is the schematic of wastewater flow.
In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives, the City began
to test the different NDN treatments, including Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE)
Process, Enhanced Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (eMLE) Process, Step-Feed Process.
The City expects to complete construction of the NDN treatment facility in September
2007, and anticipates taking 90 days to optimize operation of the NDN facilities.
A. Grit removal – Grit removal is used to remove as much sand and silt as possible
to prevent wear on pumps, accumulations in aeration tanks, clarifiers, and
digesters, and clogging of sludge piping.
B. Screen – Screen used in the wastewater treatment plant is to remove coarse
solids, which are typical wood, plastic materials, and rags.
C. Flow equalization – Flow equalization basins provide a relatively constant flow
rate to the subsequent treatment operations and processes; thus, it enhances the
degree of treatment. Not only does equalization dampen the daily variation in the
flow rate, but it also dampens the variation in the concentration of effluent BOD ,
5
suspended solids, and so on, through the day.
D. Primary sedimentation – The main objective of primary sedimentation is to
remove solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids (settleable
F-6
[Page 6]
City of Los Angeles CA0056227
Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant
Fact Sheet
solids) precipitate out and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin.
The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids
remain in suspension.
E. NDN activated sludge – The NDN activated sludge treatment system in which
the incoming wastewater is mixed with existing biological floc (microorganisms,
bugs, or activated sludge) is processed in an aeration basin. Activated sludge
converts non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc,
which can then be removed from the wastewater with further treatment.
F. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation – The main objective of secondary
sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater. Chemicals, such
as aluminum sulfate (alum) and polymer, may be added as part of the treatment
process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological floc to combine
into larger clumps (coagulate), thus making them easier to remove.
G. Mixed dual media filtration – The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream, by passing the water through
a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the secondary
sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the disinfection efficiency
and reliability.
H. Chlorination – Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Tillman WRP.
Disinfectant is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria,
pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional
disinfectant may be dosed prior to the chlorine contact tank.
I. Dechlorination – Sodium bisulfate is added to neutralize the chlorine prior to the
discharge of treated water to the Los Angeles River.
4. In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives, the City began
to test the different NDN treatments, including Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE)
Process, Enhanced Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (eMLE) Process, Step-Feed Anoxic
Process, and Nitrification combined with the use of Denitrifying Filters with methanol
addition (in the third quarter of 1998). The City expects to complete construction of the
NDN treatment facility in September 2007, and anticipates taking 90 days to optimize
operation of the NDN facilities.
5. Flow to the plant consists of domestic, commercial and industrial wastewater. For
Fiscal Year 2005, industrial wastewater represented approximately 10 % of the total
flow to the plant.
6. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the Regional Board
have classified the Tillman WRP as a major discharger. It has a Threat to Water
Quality and Complexity rating of 1-A pursuant to CCR, Title 23, Section 2200.
7.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

