[Page 7]
Board filed a return to the writ of mandate on January 1, 2007.
Pursuant to Water Code section 13320, the Cities petitioned the State Board to review the
Revised Permits on December 11, 2006 and on January 16, 2007, respectively. At the
request of the Cities, the State Board placed those petitions in abeyance, and they
currently remain in abeyance.
On March 29, 2007, the Cities moved to strike the return filed by the Regional Board. At
the hearing, the Superior Court determined that the motion was not ripe because the Cities
had not exhausted their administrative remedies by completing State Board review under
Water Code section 13320, by way of the pending petitions. Accordingly, the Superior
Court stayed the Cities’ motion until the State Board has ruled on the Cities’ pending
petitions for review.
On January 25, 2010, Regional Board staff entered into a settlement agreement with the
Cities in an effort to resolve the lawsuits and petitions challenging the Permits and Revised
Permits adopted in 1998 and 2006. The settlement agreement includes provisions that a
variety of negotiated modifications to this Permit would be brought before the Regional
Board for its consideration. The settlement agreement did not bind the Regional Board’s
judgment in consideration of those modifications, but the modifications did reflect staff
recommendations. The modifications to this Permit adopted on April 1, 2010 were the
result of the public hearing on staff’s proposals pursuant to the settlement agreement.
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
13. The Tillman WRP is a publicly owned treatment work (POTW) owned and operated by the
City's Department of Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation. The Tillman WRP is located at
4
[Page 8]
City of Los Angeles CA0056227
Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2010-0060
Amending Order No. R4-2006-0091
6100 Woodley Avenue, Van Nuys, California. Figure 1 is the vicinity map for the Tillman
WRP. The Plant consists of two identical treatment trains, each with a dry weather average
design capacity of 40 million gallons per day (mgd), for a total 80 mgd. In 2005, the average
tertiary-treated municipal wastewater discharged to the Los Angeles River, at Van Nuys,
California, was approximately 38 mgd.
14. The Tillman WRP is one of the three upstream water reclamation plants in the Hyperion
Service Area (HSA) owned by the City of Los Angeles. The other two upstream plants are
the Los Angeles/Glendale Water Reclamation Plant and the Burbank Water Reclamation
Plant.
The Bureau maintains and operates the Hyperion Treatment System which collects, treats,
and processes municipal wastewater from domestic, commercial, and industrial sources
from the entire city (except the Terminal Island Service Area surrounding the Los Angeles
Harbor area) and from a number of cities and other agencies under contractual
agreements. Sewage enters the Tillman WRP via both the Additional Valley Outfall Relief
Sewer (AVORS) and the East Valley Interceptor Sewer (EVIS) from the communities of
Chatsworth, Canoga Park, West Hills, Woodland Hills, Northridge, Granada Hills, and Van
Nuys, and from the City of San Fernando, the Las Virgenes Municipal Water District, and
the Triunfo Canyon Sanitation District under contractual agreements. There are
approximately 4 million people living in the Hyperion Service Area with approximately one
million people in the San Fernando Valley served by the Tillman Plant.
In case of plant operational problems or a need for plant shutdown, wastewater can be
diverted back to the AVORS for treatment at the Hyperion Treatment Plant.
15. The treatment system at the Tillman WRP currently consists of grit removal, screening,
flow equalization, primary sedimentation, nitrification and denitrification (NDN*) activated
sludge biological treatment with fine pore aeration, secondary clarification, coagulation,
mixed dual media filtration (Hardinge Filters), disinfection by chlorination, and dechlorination.
No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Solids from the Plant are
returned to the collection system for ultimate treatment and processing at the Hyperion
Treatment Plant. Solids returned to the sewer consist of grit, primary and secondary sludge
and skimmings, and filter backwash (approximately 10 mgd). Figure 2 is the schematic of
wastewater flow.
*: NDN – In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives, the City
began to test the different NDN treatments, including Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE)
Process, Enhanced Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (eMLE) Process, Step-Feed Process. The
City expects to complete construction of the NDN treatment facility in September 2007,
and anticipates taking 90 days to optimize operation of the NDN facilities.
16. Flow to the plant consists of domestic, commercial and industrial wastewater. For Fiscal
Year 2005, industrial wastewater represented approximately 10 % of the total flow to the
plant.
5
[Page 9]
City of Los Angeles CA0056227
Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant Order No. R4-2010-0060
Amending Order No. R4-2006-0091
17. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the Regional Board
have classified the T

===PLANNED CHANGES===

