[Page 85]
2. The treatment system at the Tillman WRP currently consists of grit removal, screening,
flow equalization, primary sedimentation, nitrification and denitrification (NDN) activated
sludge biological treatment with fine pore aeration, secondary clarification, coagulation,
aqua diamond cloth filtration, disinfection by chlorination with the addition of ammonium
hydroxide, and dechlorination. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the
Tillman WRP. Solids from the Facility are returned to the collection system for
processing at the Hyperion Treatment Plant. Solids returned to the sewer consist of grit,
primary and secondary sludge and skimmings, and filter backwash (approximately 10
MGD). Attachment C includes a process flow diagram.
In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia water quality objectives (WQOs)
specified in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region (Basin Plan), the
City installed a nitrogen de-nitrification process (NDN), the Enhanced Modified Ludzack-
Ettinger (eMLE) Process, in September 2007.
The process steps of the treatment facility are described below:
a. Grit removal – Grit removal extracts sand and silt to prevent wear on pumps;
accumulations in aeration tanks, clarifiers.
b. Screen – Screens are used in the wastewater treatment plant to remove coarse
solids, such as wood, plastic materials, and rags.
c. Flow equalization – Although flow equalization is not a component of the Tillman
WRP, some of the basins of the second treatment train are currently being used to
equalize the flow throughout the day to improve treatment operations. In addition to
dampening the daily variation in the flow rate, the flow equalization also dampens
the variation in the concentration of effluent five-day biochemical oxygen demand at
20oC (BOD5@20oC), total suspended solids (TSS), and nitrogen compounds,
through the day.
d. Primary sedimentation – The main objective of primary sedimentation is to remove
solids from the wastewater by gravity. The heavier solids (settleable solids)settle
and are removed from the primary sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to
the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (ADOPTED: 3/02/2017) F-4
[Page 86]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2017-0062
DONALD C. TILLMAN WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056227
e. Nitrification/denitrification (NDN) activated sludge biological treatment – Air is
generated from six compressors and delivered to the aeration basin to provide
oxygen for the nitrification process. Activated sludge converts non-settleable and
dissolved organic contaminants into biological floc, which can then be removed from
the wastewater for further treatment.
f. Secondary sedimentation with coagulation – The main objective of secondary
sedimentation is to remove biological floc from the wastewater. Chemicals, such as
aluminum sulfate (alum) and polymer, may be added as part of the treatment
process to enhance solids removal. Alum causes the biological floc to combine into
larger clumps (coagulate), thus making them easier to remove.
g. Aqua diamond cloth filtration – The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter by passing the liquid stream through cloth media.
Cloth media is completely submerged during filtration. Solids are deposited on the
outside of the cloth as the wastewater flows through.
h. Chlorination – Sodium hypochlorite and ammonium hydroxide are used as
disinfectants at the Tillman WRP. Ammonium hydroxide reacts with sodium
hypochlorite to form chloramine. This disinfection process reduces the formation of
trihalomethanes and cyanide. Disinfectant is added into the effluent of aqua
diamond cloth filtration (prior to the chlorine contact basin) in order to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses.
i. Dechlorination – Sodium bisulfate is added to neutralize the chlorine prior to the
discharge of treated water to the Los Angeles River.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Tillman WRP is located within the Sepulveda Dam Basin. The 100-year flood water
surface elevation in the "U.S. Corps of Engineers Modified Spillway Gate Operating Plan"
for the Sepulveda Dam Basin is 714.4 feet. The City's Depa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The following table presents the planned changes at the Tillman WRP.
Table F-4. Planned Changes
Project Name Description Start Date End Date
Recycled water produced at Tillman WRP
will be treated utilizing purification
processes and technologies including
ozonation, biologically activated carbon
(BAC), multiple-barrier filtration (e.g.,
microfiltration [MF] and reverse osmosis
Advanced Water
[RO]), and/or advanced oxidation Not specified 12/3/2021
Purification Facility
processes (AOP).
Purified water would be used under the
Proposed Project to replenish the San
Fernando Basin with up to 30,000 AFY
through new and existing pipelines to
Hansen and Pacoima spreading grounds
Upgrade emergency backup power
Backup Power 8/28/2018 8/11/2020
system
Install new spargers, new air return line
Channel 1 Air Sparger 7/2/2017 10/1/2018
and bulkhead in channel 1
Install new diffusers in channel 5 to
Chlorination System
improve disinfection. Upgrade sodium 7/4/2017 7/3/2018
Improvements
hypochlorite injection system
Chlorine Contact Tanks Replace high pressure effluent lines and
High Pressure Effluent risers in chlorine contact tanks 11/10/2016 7/3/2017
Line
Niwa Road Sewer Install sewer system at Niwa Road near
2/15/2017 12/15/2017
Installation Japanese Garden
Primary Sludge Replace primary sludge piping, valves,
2/2/2017 2/2/2018
Withdrawal System and controls
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (ADOPTED: 3/02/2017) F-14
[Page 96]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2017-0062
DONALD C. TILLMAN WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA00562