[Page 3]
5. Description of CQnveyance and Treatment Facilities
a. General
This amendment regulates the:
i. Discharge of disinfected tertiary-treated wastewater from the MBR
treatment plant and proposed new activated sludge tertiary treatment
plant to Piute Ponds, the Eastern Agricuhural Site, and other
permitted locations,
ii. Treated wastewater conveyance system to the Eastern Agricultural
Site, and
•
iii. Use of treated wastewater at the Eastern Agricultural Site through
December 31,2020.
b. CQnveyance System
Existing pump station facilities (which are IQcated at the Lancaster Water
Reclamation Plant (LWRP) site) and a pressurized pipeline convey treated
wastewater a distance of seven miles to the Eastern Agricultural Site. The
Discharger proposes to construct a permanent pump station and a steel
storage tank that will also become part of the conveyance system. The
permanent pump station will be located at the LWRP site, and the storage
tank will be located near the Eastern Agricultural Site and have a storage
capacity of two million gallons.
c. AS/NDN Treatment Plant
The Discharger proposes to construct a new activated sludge (AS) tertiary
treatment plant. The proposed new treatment plant will include nitrogen
removal using nitrification and denitrification (NDN) processes. For the
purposes of this Order, the new treatment plant is referred to as the AS/NDN
treatment plant. Treated wastewater produced by the AS/NDN treatment
plant will have total annual average nitrogen concentrations less than 10
• mg/L as nitrogen. The AS/NDN treatment plant will initially have a treatment
capacity Qf 18 mgd. The plant will be expanded later to a treatment capacity
of 21 million gallons per day. The AS/NDN treatment plant (when completed)
will replace the existing secondary treatment facilities (oxidation ponds).
[Page 4]
LOS ANGELES COUNTY -5 - BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2002­
SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 14 053A2
•
'LANCASTER WDID NO. 68190107017
Los Angeles County
d. MBR Treatment Plant
The source of influent wastewater flow for the MBR treatment plant is
effluent from the Discharger's primary treatment facility. The plant includes
the following components and capacities:
MBR Plant Components and Capacities
Plant Components Plant Capacities (MGD)
Susoended-arowth bioloaical orocess Annual Averaae Flow I 1.0
Membrane tanks Maximum Dailv Flow 11.75
Ultraviolet disinfection svstems (2)
The MBR treatment plant removes biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and
nitrogen using a single-sludge, suspended-growth biological treatment
process with membrane tanks instead of conventional clarifiers. Activated
sludge tanks provide suspended-growth biological treatment, with initial
treatment in an anoxic zone followed by further treatment in an aerobic zone.
Flow from the activated sludge tanks goes to the membrane tanks for further
• treatment, including filtration by membranes and removal of sludge.
Removed sludge is either returned to the activated sludge tanks or conveyed
to Oxidation POr:'ld NO.1. Solids generated from oxidation pond cleaning will
be hauled offsite for disposal/reuse at an authorized reuse or disposal site.
Citric acid and sodium hypochlorite solutions are used for required periodic
cleaning of the surfaces of membranes in the membrane tanks. Results of
Discharger evaluation shows that the amount of solution used is minimal and
will not adversely affect the plant effluent. '
6. Description of Eastern Agricultural Site
a. General
The time frame for development of the Eastern Agricultural Site is based on
the Discharger's needs for recycling of treated wastewater. For the purposes
2
of planning, the Discharger has divided its cur

===PLANNED CHANGES===

