[Page 5]
2. NEARBY SURFACE WATER BODIES
Hilton Canyon Creek, an intermittent tributary to the Santa Ynez River, is located
adjacent to the western edge of the Land Application Area (LAA) and flows in a
northwesterly direction. The nearest shoreline of the Cachuma Reservoir (a.k.a.
Cachuma Lake) is approximately 650 feet northeast of the storage ponds and 500 feet
northeast of the LAA.
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system is composed of sanitary sewer conveyance piping, three lift
stations, solids screening, aerobic activated sludge treatment system, and a sludge
dewatering containment area. Recent analysis of the wastewater system’s influent and
effluent for formaldehyde presents detectable levels ranging between 120 micrograms
per liter (µg/L) to 450 µg/L.
A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal
system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Aerobic Activated Sludge Treatment & Land Application Area
Influent Daily Flow Maximum Design Capacity is 49,999
gallons gpd.
Design Flows
Effluent Disposal Maximum Design Capacity is 220,000
gpd
- 2 -
[Page 6]
Santa Barbara County Attachment 1 June 15, 2022
Cachuma Lake Recreation Area WWTP
Headworks/Preliminary
Bar Screen Rakings and Grit Removal
Treatment
Aerobic Conventional Activated Sludge with a Clarifier
Treatment
Tank System.
Disinfection n/a
Two Clay Lined Evaporation Ponds. Total Volume is 4.5-
Effluent Storage
acre feet.
Evaporation ponds and land application area onto native
Disposal
ground cover.
Biosolids/Sludge
Solids are dewatered onsite in drying beds and hauled off-
Production and
site by contractor.
Handling
4. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Santa Barbara County must operate the facility in accordance with the General Permit
and this notice of applicability.4 Santa Barbara County must operate the wastewater
system to comply with the effluent limitations specified below in Tables 3 and 4.
Flow limitations are sho

[Page 15]
2. MONITORING LOCATIONS
Monitoring location information, including nomenclature that shall be used when
reporting data to the GeoTracker database (described below), is shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Monitoring Locations
GeoTracker
Sample Title Field Point Sample Description
Code
Representative grab sample after screening
Influent Sample – 1 IS-1
and before aeration tanks
Representative grab sample after clarifier and
Effluent Sample – 1 ES-1
before evaporative ponds
Representative grab sample after evaporation
Effluent Sample – 2 ES-21
ponds and before spray irrigation.
Private Monitoring
PRIW-11 Crawford Private Water Supply Well
Well
Water Supply Sample from
Water Supply RES-1 LAKE CACHUMA - RAW
(CA4200911_007_007)
Evaporation Pond -1 EP-1 Evaporation Pond 1
Evaporation Pond – 2 EP-2 Evaporation Pond 2
Land Application Area (a.k.a. spray disposal
Land Application Area SPRAYF
field)
1. Monitoring at this location is not currently required.
- 3 -
[Page 16]
Santa Barbara County Monitoring and Reporting Program June 15, 2022
Cachuma Lake Recreation Area WWTP
IS-1
ES-1
Figure 1. Treatment System Diagram with Sample Locations IS-1 and ES-1
Figure 2. Sample locations ES-2, EP-1, and EP-2
- 4 -
[Page

===PLANNED CHANGES===

