[Page 115]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Permittee owns and operates the SCI WWTP, which is located
approximately 1,500 feet east of Wilson Cove and discharges a maximum
monthly average of 0.025 MGD of treated wastewater to the Pacific
Ocean, a water of the United States. This maximum permitted flow is a
result of discussions between the Navy and the State Water Board
regarding discharge to a designated Area of Special Biological
Significance (ASBS). The SCI WWTP has a secondary treatment capacity
of 0.06 MGD and a tertiary treatment capacity of 0.03 MGD. For the period
from January 2019 to September 2023, the average monthly discharge
was 0.015 MGD with a maximum monthly average discharge of 0.026
MGD in February 2019.
The Facility receives sewage from a separated sanitary sewer serving a
population of approximately 500 people, except in cases when extra
personnel are present due to training on the island. In those cases,
wastewater from portable toilets may be delivered directly to the
headworks of the treatment system. Only residential wastes are
discharged to the sanitary sewer, and all industrial drains have been
capped with concrete. Industrial wastes (used oil, used antifreeze, used
batteries, etc.) are stored onsite and are transported off the island via
barge and properly disposed of in accordance with federal and state
regulations. There is no industry on the island and most of the industrial
waste generated is associated with facility and vehicle maintenance.
Septage from the 22 septic tanks on the island may also be delivered
directly to the headworks on an emergency basis to avoid or mitigate
overflows. The septic tanks are routinely pumped by a contractor and
septage transported offsite by barge to a City of San Diego treatment
works pump station.
2.1.2. The Facility’s treatment system consists of a package­type secondary­23
wastewater treatment process, built in 1979, and a recently installed
package­type tertiary wastewater treatment process which started
operation in July 2021. The influent flows through a comminutor and then
into a primary equalization tank. The two plants are hydraulically
connected at this point and the flow may be directed to either plant. The
secondary­23 treatment process has a design capacity of 0.060 MGD and
consists of comminution, equalization, activated sludge extended aeration,
clarification, chlorination, and dechlorination. The tertiary treatment
ATTACHMENT F. FACT SHEET
F­7
ADOPTED: 04/25/2024
[Page 116]
UNITED STATES NAVY ORDER NUMBER R4­2024­0182
SCI WWTP NPDES NUMBER CA0110175
process has a design capacity of 0.030 MGD and consists of the Smith
and Loveless Titan Membrane Bio Reactor Package, which includes fine
screening, flow equalization, sludge storage, anoxic zones, an aeration
zone including an immersion­type membrane module of flat sheet
polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF), a filtration zone, chlorine contact, and
dechlorination. The membrane is the Membray® brand manufactured by
Toray and is listed as an approved technology by the State Water
Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW), in their
Alternative Treatment Technology Report for Recycled Water published in
2014. Treated wastewater, prior to dechlorination, is pumped to either a
tertiary or a secondary­23 recycled water storage tank, depending on
water quality. The sludge is either dried in drying beds or bagged for
dewatering over plastic pallets. The dried solids are sent to the landfill on
San Clemente Island for disposal and regulated under Order No. R4­
2010­0045, adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board on March 04, 2010.
A process flow diagram of the Facility consisting of both treatment
processes is depicted in Attachment C.
The Navy intends to operate the tertiary treatment process exclusively,
except during startup and maintenance of the tertiary process, and during
emergencies. The secondary process will only be operated in emergency
situations or when the tertiary process must be shut down for
maintenance. A membrane failure in the Tertiary MBR process caused by
foreign debris clogging on June 7, 2023. Since that time, the wastewater
treatment process has been switched over to the secondary treatment
process. The Permittee is currently working to repair the tertiary process.
2.1.3. Recycled Water. In 2022, approximately 2,700 gallons per day (GPD) of
disinfected secondary­23 recycled water was used for dust control and soil
compaction, and 64 GPD of disinfected tertiary recycled water were used
for toilet flushing. These uses are regulated under Waste Discharge
Requirements and Title 22 Water

===PLANNED CHANGES===

