[Page 92]
2. The facility receives sewage from a separated sanitary sewer serving a population of
approximately 500 people, except in cases when extra personnel are present due to
training on the island. In those cases, wastewater from the portable toilets may be
delivered directly to the headworks of the treatment system. Only residential wastes are
discharged to the sanitary sewer and all industrial drains have been capped with
concrete. Industrial wastes (used oil, used antifreeze, used batteries, etc.) are stored
onsite and are manifested off the island via barge and properly disposed of in
accordance with federal and state regulations. There is no industry on the island and
most of the industrial waste generated is associated with facility and vehicle
maintenance. Septage from the 22 septic tanks on the island may also be delivered
directly to the headworks on an emergency basis to avoid or mitigate overflows. The
septic tanks are routinely pumped by a contractor and septage transported offsite by
barge to a City of San Diego treatment works pump station.
3. The Facility’s treatment system consists of a package-type secondary-23 wastewater
treatment plant, built in 1979, and a recently installed package-type tertiary wastewater
treatment plant. The influent flows through a comminutor and then into a primary
equalization tank. The two plants are hydraulically connected at this point and the flow
may be directed to either plant once the tertiary plant is in operation. The secondary-23
treatment plant is currently the only treatment plant in operation at the Facility. It has a
design capacity of 0.060 million gallons per day (mgd) and consists of comminution,
equalization, activated sludge extended aeration, clarification, chlorination, and
dechlorination. The tertiary treatment plant is not currently in operation but the
Discharger anticipates having the treatment plant online within the next year. It has a
design capacity of 0.030 mgd and consists of the Smith and Loveless Titan Membrane
Bio Reactor Package, which includes fine screening, flow equalization, sludge storage,
anoxic zones, an aeration zone including an immersion-type membrane module of flat
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 11/08/18) F-4
[Page 93]
United States Navy ORDER R4-2018-0156
San Clemente Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0110175
sheet polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF), a filtration zone, chlorine contact, and
dechlorination. The membrane is the Membray® brand manufactured by Toray and is
listed as an approved technology by the State Water Resources Control Board, Division
of Drinking Water, in their Alternative Treatment Technology Report for Recycled Water
published in 2014. Treated wastewater, prior to dechlorination, is pumped to either a
tertiary or a secondary-23 recycled water storage tank, depending on water quality. The
sludge is either dried in drying beds or bagged for dewatering over plastic pallets. The
dried solids are sent to the landfill on San Clemente Island for disposal and regulated
under Order No. R4-2010-0045, adopted by the Regional Water Board on March 04,
2010. A process flow diagram of the facility consisting of both treatment plants is
depicted in Attachment C.
4. The Navy intends to operate the tertiary treatment plant exclusively, except during
startup and maintenance of the tertiary plant, and during emergencies. Th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

