[Page 7]
11. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles Region (Regional Water
Board), finds:
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and
implementing regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the California Water Code (CWC; commencing with
section 13370). It shall serve as a NPDES permit for point source discharges from this facility
to surface waters. This Order also serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the CWC (commencing with section 13260).
B. Background and Rationale for Requirements
The Navy (Discharger) is currently discharging effluent from the San Clemente Island Waste
Water Treatment Plant (SCI WWTP or Facility) under Order No. 00-090, which was adopted
June 29, 2000. The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge and application for
an NPDES permit renewal to discharge dated December 21, 2004, for discharge from the
secondary treatment plant. The permit was not renewed previously because of concerns
regarding an Area of Special Biological Significance (ASBS) exception. In 2012 the
Discharger installed a new wastewater treatment plant and submitted an updated Report of
Waste Discharge, received August 22, 2012, and applied for an NPDES permit renewal to
discharge from the tertiary and secondary treatment plants. This permit is consistent with the
existing ASBS exclusion area.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the "discharger" or "permittee" in applicable
federal and state laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references to
the Discharger herein.
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on information
submitted as part of the application, through monitoring and reporting programs, and other
available information. The Fact Sheet (Attachment F), which contains background information
and rationale for the requirements in this Order, is hereby incorporated into and constitutes
Findings for this Order. Attachments A through I are also incorporated into this Order.
C. Facility Description
The Discharger owns and operates the SCI WWTP, located approximately 1500 feet east of
Wilson Cove and discharges a maximum monthly average of 0.025 mgd of treated
wastewater to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States.
SCI WWTP receives sewage from a separated sanitary sewer sewing a population of
approximately 500 people, except in cases when extra personnel are present due to training
on the island. In those instances, wastewater from portable toilets may be delivered directly to
the headworks of the treatment system. According to Navy personnel, only residential wastes
are discharged to the sanitary sewer; all industrial drains have been capped with concrete.
Industrial wastes (used oil, used anti-freeze, used batteries, etc.) are stored onsite and are
manifested off the island (via barge) and properly disposed of in accordance with federal and
state regulations. There is no heavy industry on the island and most of the waste generated
is associated with facility and vehicle maintenance (e.g. changing oil on a vehicle).
The treatment system consists of a package-type secondary wastewater treatment plant, built
in 1979, and a recently completed package-type tertiary wastewater treatment plant. The
tertiarv wlant will be brouaht into oweration followina adowtion of this Order. The secondaw
plant i$s a design capacity of 0.060 mgd and consists df communition, equalization, actiiated
sludge extended aeration, clarification, chlorination and dechl~rination(A ttachment C). The
LIMITATIONS AND DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS (Final Adopted Order. July 11.2013) PAGE 5
[Page 8]
UNITED STATES NAVY ORDER NO. R4-2013-0111
SAN CLEMENTE ISLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0110175
tertiary plant has a design capacity of 0.030 mgd. The new Smith and Loveless (S&L) Titan
Membrane Bio Reactor (MBR) Package consists of screening, flow equalization, sludge
storage, anoxic zones, an aeration, a filtration zone, chlorine contact, and dechlorination.
Treated wastewater, prior to dechlorination, is pumped to a tertiary recycled water storage
tank (Attachment C).
The Navy intends to operate the tertiary wastewater treatment plant exclusively, except during
periods of high flows to the treatment system and startup and maintenance of the tertiary
plant. The secondary plant may only be operated in emergency situations or when the
tertiary plant must be shut down for maintenance. During s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

