[Page 2]
IV. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. CWRF is a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) and CWD operates the
CWRF, located at 1900 Lewis Road, Camarillo, California. CWRF has a design
capacity of 1.5 million gallons per day (mgd) and serves an approximate population
of 16,000 people. In 1995, CWD began making modifications and upgrades to its
wastewater treatment plant. In April 1997, the new facilities were placed into
service. Since then, CWRF provides tertiary treatment to municipal and industrial
wastewater.
B. The CWRF receives most of the domestic wastewater from the City of Camarillo.
There are no significant industrial discharges within the City of Camarillo and not
subjected to pretreatment regulations [40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
Part 403]. Therefore, CWD is no longer required to implement a Pretreatment
Program.
C. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and Regional Board
has classified CWRF as a major Discharger. CWRF has a Threat to Water Quality
Category of 3 and a Complexity Rating of A, or a combined rating of 3-A.
D. Normally, filtered, chlorinated effluent wastewater from the CWRF is pumped to
two of the four effluent disposal ponds north of the treatment facility. Currently,
F-3
[Page 3]
Camrosa Water District – Camrosa Water Reclamation Facility CA0059501
Fact Sheet
there is approximately 50 millions gallons of disposal space available in the
ponds. Wastewater used for irrigation purposes is drawn off from the ponds on
an “as-needed” basis. Storage is currently approximately 40 days capacity. Two
of the storage ponds are currently being used to store water from the Conejo
Creek.
V. TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
A. Current treatment consists of a bar screen, headworks lift station, Eimco©
Carousel denitIR© extended aeration system, anoxic denitrification, secondary
clarification, Parkson upflow sand filtration, chlorination, and impoundment for
reclamation. Biosolids from the secondary clarifiers are impounded, dried in
sludge drying beds at the plant, and transported to a land application projects in La
Paz County, Arizona.
B. Water Recycling Facility. Treated effluent from CWRF is currently used for
irrigation of various crops, with the remainder of the excess flows directed to off-
site evaporation/percolation ponds. At an average daily flow of 1.3 MGD, the
facility generates 474.5 million gallons of tertiary filtered disinfected effluent on
an annual basis. Presently 54% of the total production, or approximately 254
MGD of the effluent produced at the CWRF is used for irrigation of 1,011 acres
of various crops. The CWD is currently in the process of evaluating other options
for year-round effluent reuse.
Fu

===PLANNED CHANGES===

