[Page 90]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Camrosa WRF is an Eimco System Carrousel® denitIR® extended aeration
treatment facility with a dry weather design capacity of 2.25 mgd. The facility
serves a population of approximately 16,000 people and is a mixture of
domestic and industrial water. The Facility has an oxidation process that
provides nitrification in an aerobic zone and denitrification in an anoxic zone.
The anoxic basin is attached to the carrousel and connected by inflow and
outflow channels. Untreated wastewater is mainly collected from the City of
Camarillo and the California State University, Channel Islands. The treatment
process consists of two bar screens, headworks lift pumps, two separate
carrousels for nitrification and denitrification, secondary clarification, up-flow
sand filtration, chlorination, and impoundment for reclamation.
2.1.2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment:
Screening: Two bar screens mechanically remove approximately 700 cubic feet
of large debris per month from the waste stream. This material is sent to a
landfill for disposal.
Anoxic Basin: Influent is pumped through a splitter at the headworks where it
enters one of two anoxic basins where denitrification occurs. The water entering
the anoxic basin is devoid of oxygen and rich in nitrates which bacteria consume
to produce nitrogen gas that is released to the atmosphere. After denitrification,
the water is sent to the extended aeration carrousels.
Carrousels: Upon entering the carrousels, the water is aerated by four large
diameter impellers that supply oxygen to the water to begin the nitrification
process. The oxygen is consumed as the mixed liquor travels through the
carousels and as the flow reaches the end of the carousel, the water becomes
oxygen deficient. At this point of the process the flow may either continue
through the extended aeration carrousel or it is returned to the anoxic basin.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
ADOPTED: 06/11/20
[Page 91]
CAMROSA WATER DISTRICT ORDER R4-2020-0078
CAMROSA WRF NPDES NO. CA0059501
Secondary Clarification: Wastewater leaves the carrousels and enters a pair
of clarifiers where sludge settling, and clarification of the wastewater is
achieved.
Tertiary Filtration: The filtration process consists of 10 Parkson® up-flow,
continuous backwash, sand filters that remove any floc particles remaining in the
water after clarification.
Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is added to the wastewater immediately prior
to the chlorine contact basin for disinfection and a flash mixer evenly distributes
the disinfectant. The chlorinated water enters a 126,000-gallon chlorine contact
chamber which provides a minimum free chlorine contact time of 59 mg-min/L, a
free chlorine modal contact time of 59 minutes, and a minimum free chlorine
residual of 1.0 mg/L at the chlorine contact chamber outlet at all times.
Dechlorination: The disinfected water enters an on-site flow stabilization
holding pond where the surrounding environment assists in the dissipation of
chlorine.
Distribution: At the effluent pump station the treated water either leaves the
plant to be used by local agricultural operations or it is diverted to an on-site
booster station providing CSUCI with recycled water. Excess effluent is
impounded for later use in two effluent holding ponds about three miles from the
plant.
Solids handling: Bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a landfill.
Sludge from the secondary clarifiers is either returned to the influent flow splitter
or transferred to drying beds and then hauled away for additional processing to
an off-site composting facility in Bakersfield, CA.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Discharger typically recycles 100% of its effluent for crop and landscape irrigation.
A portion of this water is also stored in storage ponds where percolation into the
groundwater basin may occur. The discharge of treated effluent to Calleguas Creek only
occurs during wet weather when there is little demand for irrigation water and the
storage ponds are at or near capacity. During these conditions, treated wastewater is
discharged by gravity flow from Discharge Point 001 to Calleguas Creek. Discharge
Serial No. 001 has the approximate coordinates: Latitude 34.181389 North, Longitude
119.028611 West. No effluent has been discharged to Calleguas Creek from this facility
since 2005.
Calleguas Creek is a water of the United States that conveys f

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger installed covers on the chlorine contact chamber in March 2017 and the
secondary clarifiers in May 2018 to help reduce the chlorine needed for disinfection.
In addition, the Discharger conducted a chlorine disinfection study in 2014 that
demonstrates that the Camrosa WRF can use alternative chlorine disinfection standards
to meet the requirements in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (22 CCR) §
60301.230, thus allowing a shorter contact time in the chlorine contact basin and
increasing its design flow rate. CWD previously met the 22 CCR disinfection
requirements by ensuring the disinfection process following filtration provides a contact
time of 450 milligram-minutes per liter at all times with a modal contact time of at least
90 minutes. 22 CCR provides an alternative to this disinfection requirement if it can be
demonstrated that the alternative removes 99.999% of the plaque-forming units of the
F-specific bacteriophage MS2, or polio virus in the wastewater. CWD was successful in
demonstrating the alternative disinfection requirements could be met using a free
chlorine contact time of 59 milligram-minutes per liter and a chlorine modal contact time
of 59 minutes. As a result, CWD was able to increase the capacity of the chlorine
contact basin to 3.24 mgd by decreasing the chlorine contact time. Since the chlorine
contact basin no longer controls the design capacity, the secondary clarifier with a
capacity of 2.25 mgd is now the limiting unit process and controls the design capacity.
On May 04, 2015 the State Water Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water
(DDW) conditionally approved the Discharger’s updated Engineering Report, which
includes a treatment plant capacity analysis using the alternative disinfection
requirements developed during the study. The capacity analysis concludes that the
Camrosa WRF may be rerated at 2.25 mgd (the capacity of the secondary clarifiers)
without compromising treatment quality.
The Discharger is currently conducting a sequential chlorination study to investigate its
effectiveness in reducing trihalomethane formation. If proven to be successful, the
Discharger will determine the best location and install a permanent ammonia feed line
to the chlorine contact chamber.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9
ADOPTED: 06/11/20
[Page 96]
CAMROSA WATER DISTRICT ORDER R4-2020-0078
CAMROSA WRF NPDES NO. CA0059501
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of