[Page 81]
1. The Camrosa Water Reclamation Facility is an Eimco System Carrousel® denitIR®
extended aeration treatment facility with a dry weather design capacity of 1.5 MGD. The
Facility has an oxidation process that provides nitrification in an aerobic zone and
denitrification in an anoxic zone. The anoxic basin is attached to the carrousel and
connected by inflow and outflow channels. Untreated wastewater is mainly collected
from the City of Camarillo and the California State University, Channel Islands. The
treatment process consists of two bar screens, headworks lift pumps, two separate
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 11/06/14) F-4
[Page 82]
CAMROSA WATER DISTRICT ORDER R4-2014-0210
CAMROSA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0059501
carrousels for nitrification and denitrification, secondary clarification, up-flow sand
filtration, chlorination, and impoundment for reclamation.
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 16,000 people and is a mixture of
domestic and industrial water.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment:
Screening: Two bar screens mechanically remove approximately 700 cubic feet of large
debris per month from the waste stream. This material is sent to a landfill for disposal.
Anoxic Basin: Influent is pumped through a splitter at the headworks where it enters one
of two anoxic basins where denitrification occurs. The water entering the anoxic basin is
devoid of oxygen and rich in nitrates which bacteria consume to produce nitrogen gas
that is released to the atmosphere. After denitrification, the water is sent to the extended
T
aeration carrousels.
Carousels: Upon entering the carousels, the water is aerated by four large diameter E
impellers that supply oxygen to the water to begin the nitrification process. The oxygen is
consumed as the mixed liquor travels through the carousels and as the flow reaches the
N
end of the carousel, the water becomes oxygen deficient. At this point of the process the
flow may either continue through the extended aeration carousel or it is returned to the
anoxic basin. T
Secondary Clarification: Wastewater leaves the carousels and enters a pair of clarifiers
A
where sludge settling and clarification of the wastewater is achieved.
Tertiary filtration: The filtration process consists of 10 Parkson® up-flow, continuous T
backwash, sand filters that remove any floc particles remaining in the water after
clarification.
I
Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is added to the wastewater immediately prior to the
chlorine contact basin for disinfection and a flash mixer evenly distributes the disinfectant. V
The chlorinated water enters a 126,000 gallon chlorine contact chamber which provides a
minimum of 2.03 hours of detention time during normal flows and 1.5 hours at sporadic or
E
seasonal peaks.
Dechlorination: The disinfected water enters an on-site flow stabilization holding pond
where the surrounding environment assists in the dissipation of chlorine.
Distribution: At the effluent pump station the treated water either leaves the plant to be
used by local agricultural operations or it is diverted to an on-site booster station
providing CSU Channel Islands with recycled water. Excess effluent is impounded for
later use in two effluent holding ponds about three miles from the plant.
Solids handling: Bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a landfill. Sludge from
the secondary clarifiers is either returned to the influent flow splitter or transferred to
drying beds and then hauled away for additional processing to an off-site composting
facility in Bakersfield, CA.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted: 11/06/14) F-5
[Page 83]
CAMROSA WATER DISTRICT ORDER R4-2014-0210
CAMROSA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0059501
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Permittee typically recycles 100% of its effluent for crop and landscape irrigation. A
portion of this water is also stored in storage ponds where percolation into the groundwater
basin may occur. The discharge of treated effluent to the Calleguas Creek only occurs
during wet weather when there is little demand for irrigation water and the storage ponds are
at or near capacity. During these conditions, treated wastewater is discharged by gravity flow
from Discharge Point 001 to Calleguas Creek, a water of the United States, and tributary to
the Pacific Ocean within Calleguas Creek Watershed. Discharge Serial No. 001 has the
approximate coordinates: Latitude 34.181389 North, Longitude 119.028611West. No effluent
has been discharged to the Callegu

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
V
The CWD is reevaluating the treatment process train at the Facility in order to increase the
rated capacity from 1.5 to 2.25 MGD. An engineering study was conducted in 2008 to
determine if the Facility could support the increased capacity, however the results of the E
study indicated that additional information was required to support the rerating. . As a result,
CWD has petitioned the State Water Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water
(DDW), to rerate the chlorine contact tank with a shorter contact time to support the
increased capacity rating. Upon approval of the decreased chlorine contact time and
implementation of recommendations from DDW, CWD may supply an updated Engineering
Report in support of the increased capacity rating to the Regional Water Board and request
an amendment to the active NPDES Order.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
ATTACHMENT F –