[Page 96]
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and will operate the Facility, which will provide municipal and
industrial wastewater services to a population of approximately 10,600 people in
the City of Morro Bay. The Facility construction includes infrastructure, pipelines,
and appurtenances for influent, effluent, and recycled water.
2.1.1. Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) System
Raw wastewater will be conveyed to the Facility headworks, which will include two
coarse screen and grit removal trains, a SAFE system box, and two parallel fine
screens. Screenings and grit from the headworks facilities will be hauled offsite for
disposal. Screened effluent and return activated sludge will flow into two biological
nutrient removal (BNR) basins and then pumped to the MBR. The BNR-MBR
basins will be configured as two parallel activated sludge treatment trains, each
consisting of pre-anoxic, aerobic, and post-anoxic basins in-series.
Filtrate from the MBR will be stored in two RO feed tanks, which will provide water
for onsite uses and feed water to the RO system which produces water for IPR.
Overflows from these tanks will be discharged to an outfall balancing tank.
Tertiary treated effluent from the outfall balancing tank will be pumped through an
outfall disinfection chlorine contact pipeline and will then be dechlorinated by
sodium bisulfite injection prior to discharge through the ocean outfall.
2.1.2. Stormwater Adaptive Filtration Equipment (SAFE) System
Wet weather flows exceeding the MBR treatment capacity of 1.88 MGD will flow
by gravity through the SAFE box at the Facility headworks to the SAFE system. A
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 97]
CITY OF MORRO BAY ORDER NO. R3-2022-0029 NPDES NO.
WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY CA3000002
concrete tank, called the SAFE settling basin, will capture and equalize the wet
weather flows prior to entering the SAFE filter system. Low wet weather flow
volumes that do not completely fill the SAFE settling basin will be pumped back to
the SAFE box for treatment when flows have decreased. The SAFE settling tank
will have separate piping connected to the sludge dewatering pumps to provide
the capability to operate one dewatering pump to drain the tank and the other to
process sludge.
During higher volume peak flow events, effluent will fill the SAFE settling basin,
which will provide sedimentation treatment, until it passes over a weir and flows to
the SAFE filter system for filtration treatment. Primary treated effluent from the
SAFE filter system will then be routed to the outfall balancing tank where it will be
blended with tertiary-treated MBR effluent and pumped by the outfall pump station
to the outfall disinfection pipeline contactor and then the ocean outfall. Design flow
of the SAFE settling basin and SAFE filter system is 6.26 MGD.
2.1.3. Indirect Potable Reuse (IPR) System
Tertiary-treated effluent from the RO feed tanks may be sent to the outfall
balancing tank or the IPR system for advanced purification. IPR system treatment
consists of cartridge filters, an RO system, ultraviolet disinfection with advanced
oxidation (UV/AOP) chlorination, and a calcite contactor. The IPR system was
designed to accept a feed annual flow rate of 0.97 MGD and a peak hourly flow of
1.16 MGD. The RO recovery rate is expected to be between 80 and 85 percent,
such that for average influent flow rates of 0.97 MGD, the RO permeate would be
approximately 0.80 MGD, and the RO concentrate stream would be 0.17 MGD.
Discharged RO concentrate will range between 0.05 and 0.23 MGD, depending
on the influent flow rate. IPR product water that does not meet the requirements
for recycling and RO concentrate will be diverted to the outfall balancing tank for
discharge to the ocean outfall. RO concentrate will also be diverted directly to the
RO concentrate disinfection contact pipeline for chlorination prior to commingling
with the outfall disinfection contact pipeline upstream of the dechlorination
injection point.
2.1.4. Ocean Outfall Transmission Main
Effluent to be discharged to the Pacific Ocean at Discharge Point 001 will flow to
an ocean outfall transmission main leading from the Facility to the ocean outfall
pipeline. Additional waste streams that will discharge to the ocean outfall
transmission main include saline waste from an industrial user and RO
concentrate from the existing drinking water well system. Up to 0.0027 MGD of
saline waste will be metered into the transmission main downstream of the WRF
effluent or trucked to an off-site facility for treatment and disposal. In addition, up
to 0.446 MGD of RO concentrate from the brackish water RO facility will be
metered into the transmission main downstream of the WRF and industrial user or
discharged through the current Vistra ocean outfall as a low threat discharge.
2.1.5. Biosolids
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 98]
CITY OF MORRO BAY ORDER NO. R3-2022-0029 NPDES NO.
WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY CA3000002
The sludge holding tanks will receive, store, and aerate activated sludge wasted
from the BNR MBR process. The holding tanks will consist of a two cell design,
with each zone including mixers and bubble diffusers. It is expected that under
normal operations only one zone will be in use to minimize sludge age for
optimization of dewatering system performance. The sludge dewatering system
will pump waste sludge from the sludge holding tanks, or directly from the MBR
system, and dewatered by a belt filter press with a polymer storage and feed
system. Dewatered biosolids will be transported offsite for beneficial use or
landfill.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Facility will discharge blended primary and tertiary treated wastewater and RO
concentrate to the Pacific Ocean through an ocean outfall at Discharge Point 001
(35.3864° N; 120.8831° W). The outfall, which is currently used for discharge from
the existing Morro Bay WWTP, includes a 170-foot diffuser system that is equipped
with 34 ports on alternate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

