[Page 3]
6. The WDRs are issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23, California Code of
Regulations (CCR) and therefore eligible for a section 20090(a) exemption from CCR
Title 27. The discharge authorized herein and the treatment and storage facilities
associated with the discharge of treated municipal wastewater, except for discharges of
residual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the requirements of Title 27, CCR,
section 20005 et seq. (hereafter Title 27). The exemption, pursuant to section 20090(a)
of Title 27, is based on the following factors; that the waste consists primarily of
domestic sewage and treated effluent; that the waste discharge requirements are
consistent with water quality objectives; and that the treatment and storage facilities
described herein are associated with a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
-
7. The wastewater treatment plant and evaporation/percolation ponds are located in and
around Section 30, T3N, R21W, San Bernardino Base & Meridian (See Figure 1.
Facility Area Map and Figure 2. Monitoring Wells and Percolation Ponds Location Map).
The wastewater treatment plant's approximate latitude is 34" 21' 26"; its longitude 119"
1' 59".
8. The Todd Road Jail WWTP is a secondary wastewater treatment plant, which consists
of an influent pump station, influent flow meter, comminution, mechanical drum screens,
oxidation via suspended growth aerobic process, secondary clarifiers, aerobic digester,
sludge drying area, piping into effluent evaporation/percolation ponds, a control and
operation building. Treatment includes screening to remove large solids and aeration.
Waste sludge is aerobically digested and dewatered in lined sludge drying beds at the
plant. Waste activated sludge is pumped to line drying beds pending offsite disposal.
The secondary treated wastewater is transferred via pipelines to three
evaporation/percolation ponds for final disposal. A treatment system flowchart is
presented in Figure 3, which is attached hereto and made a part of this Order by
reference. Each of the treatment system components is described below.
9. Wastewater from Todd Road County Jail is transported by a gravity sewer into the
wastewater treatment plant's wet well with submersible grinder pumps through an eight-
inch sewage main.
10. Wastewater from the wet well is lifted by an influent pump (influent pump station, two
working and one on standby) into two rotating drum screens. Water level sensors control
the pumps. The design capacity of each inflow pump is 120 gallons per minute. The flow
[Page 4]
County of Ventura Order No. R4-2011-0193
Public Works Agency Page 3
Todd Road Jail Wastewater Treatment Plant
is recorded by a magnetic flow meter and a totalizer records the cumulative flow
quantity.
11. The pumped wastewater passes through the rotating drum screens (0.060-inch
openings). Screenings from the rotating drum screens are washed to remove fecal
material, dewatered, and compacted. Screenings are deposited in a trash bin and
hauled to a permitted landfill disposal site. The screens can be operated manually or
automatically.
12. After screening, the wastewater is pumped into the treatment system via an influent lift
station. The lift station has two 120 gallons per minute (gpm) submersible pumps. The
wastewater is routed into two aeration tanks and two clarifiers.
13. The wastewater enters the aeration tanks where biological treatment takes place.
Oxygen is provided by the blowers, which sized has been increased since the
wastewater treatment plant was constructed. <Thet wo aeration tanks are rectangular
concrete basins. The dimensions at the bottom of each basin are 16 feet wide by 27 feet
long by 18 feet deep and when filled to a depth of ten feet contain about 52,000 gallons.
Air is supplied by two 50-horsepower blowers capable of delivering 500 standard cubic
feet of air per minute. The flow is then to the digester tank and two clarifiers.
14. Solid-liquid separation takes place in the two clarifiers. The settled solids are treated
further in the aeration basins and digester tank.
15. The 50,000-gallons aerobic digester tank is 'equipped with one NEMO model NE30A
positive displacement sludge pump. The aerobic digester tank is 33 feet wide by 13 feet
long by 18 feet deep. The sludge pump delivers sludge from the digester tank to the six
lined sludge drying beds. Each sludge bed is 20 feet wide and 35 feet long.
16. The rectangular clarifiers are 8 feet wide by 12 feet long by 18 feet deep. Each clarifier
has a surface area of approximately 96 square feet. The dimensions at the bottom of
each basin are 16 feet wide by 27 feet long by 18 feet deep and when filled to a depth of
16 feet contain about 52,000 gallons. Wastewater from the clarifiers is collected and
delivered to three percolation/evaporation ponds.
17. The treated wastewater is disposed of into three percolation/evaporation ponds. Two of
the percolation/evaporation ponds are 90 feet wide by 160 feet long and 5 feet in depth.
The third percolation/evaporation pond is 180 feet wide by 160 feet long and 5 feet in
depth. Each of the three percolation/evaporation ponds has a minimum bottom surface
area of 8,000 square-feet. The three percolation/evaporation ponds operate in three
phases: fill, rest, and standby.
18. Generators will power the Todd Road Jail WWTP in case of a power failure and will start
automatically.
19. Self-monitoring data from January 201 0 to December 2010 characterize the recent
[Page 5]
County of Ventura Order No. R4-2011-0193
Public Works Agency Page 4
Todd Road Jail Wastewater Treatment Plant
effluent and groundwater.quality as fo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

