[Page 71]
1. The Facility currently has a total design capacity of 61.3 MGD and produces
recycled water, using three treatment processes, for Title 22, Chevron, and
Barrier uses.
2. Under the Title 22 treatment process, the Facility distributes water to a Title 22
distribution system for landscape, irrigation, and industrial purposes. The Title
22 process can treat up to 40 MGD of secondary-treated wastewater from the
Hyperion Treatment Plant. The Title 22 process uses coagulation, flocculation,
high rate clarifiers, monomedia anthracite coal filtration, and chlorine
disinfection. All wastewater from this process is returned back into the system.
3. The advanced wastewater treatment facility currently treats up to approximately
16 MGD of secondary-treated wastewater for blending with potable water and
injection into the West Coast Basin Barrier Project. The Barrier treatment
process consists of automatic strainers, microfiltration, reverse osmosis,
advanced oxidation process including hydrogen peroxide and UV,
decarbonation, and lime stabilization. Approximately 3.7 MGD of brine waste
generated from the reverse osmosis process is discharged to the Pacific
Ocean.
4. The Facility operates a boiler feedwater treatment process for the Chevron El
Segundo Refinery’s low and high-pressure boilers. This treatment includes the
processes shown in section 3, above, and a second treatment by reverse
osmosis prior to distribution to the refinery. The boiler feed water treatment
process produces up to 4.3 MGD of highly purified recycled water and
approximately 0.8 MGD of brine waste that is discharged to the Pacific Ocean.
A flow diagram of the existing treatment process and future treatment process
is provided in Attachment C of this Order/Permit.
5. Sludge generated from the above-mentioned processes is dewatered onsite
using two plate-and-frame presses. It is then hauled off-site to be beneficially
reused at either a soil remediation facility, or as Alternate Daily Cover at a
landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Reverse osmosis brine waste produced at the Facility is discharged through
Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States.
Discharge Point 001 also corresponds to the Hyperion Treatment Plant (HTP)
“5-mile outfall”. Table F-3 shows the description of the HTP “five-mile outfall”. A
location map of the Facility is provided in Attachment B of this Order/Permit.
Table F-3. Description of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

