[Page 76]
1. The Facility currently has a total wastewater treatment design capacity of 62.5 MGD and
produces recycled water using three treatment processes; 1) a Title 22 disinfected
tertiary system, 2) an advanced treatment train producing an industrial boiler feed water
with ozone, microfiltration, and reverse osmosis, and 3) an advanced treatment train
including ozone, microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and advanced oxidation for injection
into the West Coast Groundwater Basin as a seawater intrusion barrier. The schematics
for the advanced treatment train are provided in Attachments C-3, C-4 and C-5. The
brine waste stream is a byproduct of the reverse osmosis treatment, as shown in
Attachment C-4.
2. The advanced treatment facilities currently produce up to 17.5 MGD of indirect potable
reuse water from secondary effluent for the West Coast Basin Barrier Project and
another 4.6 MGD of reverse osmosis permeate for refinery boiler feed water makeup. As
shown in Attachment C-5, the advanced oxidation process is only needed for
groundwater injection and includes ultraviolet with hydrogen peroxide, decarbonation,
and lime stabilization.
3. Currently, a daily maximum of 4.22 MGD of brine waste generated from the reverse
osmosis trains of the advanced treatment facility was discharged to the Pacific Ocean
between 2012 and 2016.
4. Solids generated from the above-mentioned processes are dewatered onsite using two
plate-and-frame presses. It is then hauled off-site to be beneficially reused at either a
soil remediation facility as construction mix soil, or as “Alternate Daily Cover” at a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Reverse osmosis brine waste produced at the Facility is discharged through Discharge
Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States. Discharge Point 001
corresponds to the Hyperion Treatment Plant (HTP) “five-mile outfall”, named Discharge
Point 002 in the HTP Order R4-2017-0045. Table E-1 includes a description of
Discharge Point 001, which is identical to the HTP “five-mile outfall”. When the “fi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In addition to the normal operation of changing out the microfiltration filters and the reverse
osmosis membranes, the Discharger is also adding some additional filters as a temporary
measure to increase the produced flow from the advanced treatment facility to design
capacity over the next two years. To address higher than expected Total Organic Carbon in
the reverse osmosis permeate, the membranes are being replaced with a different type of
membrane. There currently is no plan to increase the design flow of 5.2 MGD of brine
discharged while these changes are being implemented.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS.
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) an