[Page 51]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger operates the West Basin Water Recycling Plant located at 1935 Hughes Way, El
Segundo, California. The Facility provides additional treatment to a portion of the secondary
treated wastewater from the City of Los Angeles Hyperion Treatment Plant (Hyperion) for use as
Title 22 irrigation water; boiler feedwater for Chevron, El Segundo Refinery boilers; and for use in
the West Coast Basin Barrier Project. The Facility has a total design capacity of 37.5 MGD and
discharges approximately 2.75 MGD of reverse osmosis brine waste from the treatment process to
the Pacific Ocean via the Hyperion 5-mile outfall. Brine waste is not treated prior to discharge.
The Discharger began an expansion project at the Facility in September 2005 to increase the
amount of recycled water for the West Coast Basin Barrier Project from 7.5 MGD to 12.5 MGD and
increase the capacity of the Title 22 process train from 30 MGD to 40 MGD. The Discharger has
requested an increase of flow for the discharge of brine waste, from 2.75 MGD to 4.5 MGD to
accommodate the expansion.
Effluent from the Facility combines with effluent from Hyperion prior into the Pacific Ocean via
Hyperion 5-mile outfall. Annual effluent flows from Hyperion are approximately 330 MGD. The
deep ocean outfall provides an initial dilution of 84 parts seawater to 1 part effluent (84:1).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility currently has a total design capacity of 37.5 MGD and produces recycled water
using two treatment processes: Title 22 and Barrier.
Under the Title 22 treatment process the Facility distributes water to a Title 22 distribution
system for landscape, irrigation, and industrial purposes. The Title 22 process can treat up to
30 MGD of secondary-treated wastewater from the Hyperion Treatment Plant. The Title 22
process uses coagulation, flocculation, high rate clarifiers, monomedia anthracite coal filtration,
and chlorine disinfection. All wastewater from this process is returned back into the system.
The Barrier treatment process currently treats up to 7.5 MGD of secondary-treated wastewater
for blending with potable water and injection into the West Coast Basin Barrier Project. Trains 1
and 2 of the Barrier treatment process currently consist of pre-decarbonation, lime clarification,
recarbonation, multi-media filtration, reverse osmosis, post decarbonation, pH adjustment, and
chlorination. Train 3 currently consists of micro filtration, reverse osmosis, post decarbonation,
chlorination, and pH adjustment. Up to 2.75 MGD of brine waste generated from the reverse
osmosis process is discharged to the Pacific Ocean. During the expansion project, the lime
clarifier and the tri-media filter will be removed from the barrier treatment process. The lime
clarifier will be converted to a solids contact basin and the tri-media filters will be used for Title
22 irrigation water. Chlorination will be replaced with UV treatment and additional pumping
facilities will be constructed. These changes will increase the treatment capacity from 30 to 40
MGD of recycled water.
The Facility operates a boiler feedwater treatment process for the Chevron, El Segundo
Refinery, low and high-pressure boilers. This treatment process includes micro filtration,
reverse osmosis, decarbonation, and a second treatment by reverse osmosis prior to being
distributed to the refinery. The boiler feedwater treatment process produces approximately 0.81
MGD of brine waste that is discharged to the Pacific Ocean. A flow diagram of the existing
treatment process and future treatment process is provided in Attachment C of Order No. R4-
2006-0067.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 52]
WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT
WEST BASIN WATER RECYCLING PLANT
ORDER NO. R4-2006-0067
NPDES NO. CA0063401
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Reverse osmosis brine waste from the Facility is discharged through Discharge Point 001 (33°
54’ 43” North, 118° 31’ 17” West), to the Pacific Ocean, that corresponds to the Hyperion 5-mile
outfall (Outfall No. 002). A location map of the Facility is provided in Attachment B of Order No.
R4-2006-0067.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Numerical effluent limitations are not

===PLANNED CHANGES===

