[Page 2]
2003. This Order is a reissuance of waste discharge requirements that have been revised
to reflect current wastewater treatment processes and to include additional findings,
effluent limitations, prohibitions, updated standard provisions, and an expanded monitoring
and reporting program.
IV. FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
VCWD owns and operates the Moorpark WTP that is located at 9550 Los Angeles
Avenue, Moorpark, California. The Moorpark WTP receives wastewater from the City of
Moorpark. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater. The
latter is pretreated pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403 prior to discharge to the sewers. The
Moorpark WTP serves an approximate population of 33,300 people.
The Moorpark WTP was designed to provide secondary treatment to 3.0 million gallons
per day (mgd) of wastewater, and tertiary treatment to 1.5 mgd of secondary treated
effluent. Under normal conditions, the Moorpark WTP discharges secondary treated
effluent to on-site percolation/evaporation ponds under Waste Discharge Requirements
contained in Order No. 00-048, adopted by this Regional Board on April 13, 2000.
During wet weather, when the flow exceeds the percolation capacity, the Moorpark WTP
further provides tertiary treatment (filtration and disinfection/dechlorination) to a portion
of the secondary treated effluent for discharge into Arroyo Las Posas.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the Regional Board
have classified the Moorpark WTP as a major discharger. It has a Threat to Water
Quality and Complexity Rating of 1-A, pursuant to CCR Section 2200.
The Moorpark WTP has been undergoing a two-phase upgrade and expansion. The
plant was originally designed to provide secondary treatment to 3.0 million gallons per
day (mgd) of wastewater, and tertiary treatment to 1.5 mgd of secondary treated effluent.
The Phase I plant upgrade was completed and has been in operation since July 2001. It
included conversion of the aeration/polishing ponds secondary treatment system to an
F-3
[Page 3]
Ventura County Waterworks District No. 1 CA0063274
(Moorpark Wastewater Treatment Plant) Order No. R4-2003-0151
Fact Sheet
activated sludge process, and the construction of a solids dewatering facility, solar
sludge drying beds, and a dewatered cake storage pad. The Phase I upgrade did not
change the plant’s design capacity.
The upgraded primary and secondary treatment systems consist of an in-channel
screening (Aqua Guard® screens), grit removal, Biolac® extended aeration system, and
secondary clarification. Secondary treated effluent is discharged to 30 onsite
percolation/evaporation ponds. Waste sludge is either dewatered using a belt press or
dried in sludge drying beds before being hauled away for land application to an
approved facility.
Tertiary treatment system consists of chemical flocculation, gravity settling, up-flow
Dynasand® filtration, and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite solution. During wet
weather, when the flow exceeds the percolation and reclamation capacity, the
disinfected tertiary treated effluent is dechlorinated prior to discharging into Arroyo Las
Posas, which is tributary to Mugu Lagoon.
Currently, VCWD is proceeding with the Phase II plant upgrades that include increasing
the secondary treatment capacity to 5 mgd by expanding the Biolac extended aeration
system, providing nitrogen removal, increasing the pumping capacity of the sewer lift
station, and expanding the tertiary treatment capacity to 3 mgd. In addition, VCWD
intends to improve the solids handling capacity, convert the plant water system to recycled
water, improve reliability with additional stand-by power capacity, and increase the building
space for laboratory and operations.
Water R

===PLANNED CHANGES===

