[Page 3]
3. This Order is the reissuance of waste discharge requirements that serves as an NPDES
permit for the Moorpark WTP.
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
4. VCWD owns and operates the Moorpark WTP, located at 9550 Los Angeles Avenue,
Moorpark, California. Figure 1 shows the location of the plant. The Moorpark WTP
receives wastewater from the City of Moorpark. The wastewater is a mixture of
domestic and industrial wastewater. The latter is pretreated pursuant to 40 CFR Part
403 prior to discharge to the sewers. The Moorpark WTP serves an approximate
population of 33,300 people.
5. The Moorpark WTP was designed to provide secondary treatment to 3.0 million gallons
per day (mgd) of wastewater, and tertiary treatment to 1.5 mgd of secondary treated
effluent. Under normal conditions, the Moorpark WTP discharges secondary treated
effluent to on-site percolation/evaporation ponds under Waste Discharge Requirements
contained in Order No. 00-048, adopted by this Regional Board on April 13, 2000.
During wet weather, when the flow exceeds the percolation capacity, the Moorpark WTP
further provides tertiary treatment (filtration and disinfection/dechlorination) to a portion
1 October 20, 2003
Revised: November 12, November 19, 2003
[Page 4]
Ventura County Waterworks District No. 1 CA0063274
Moorpark Wastewater Treatment Plant Order No. R4-2003-0151
of the secondary treated effluent for discharge into Arroyo Las Posas. Figure 2 shows
the layout of the treatment plant and percolation ponds.
6. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the Regional Board
have classified the Moorpark WTP as a major discharger. It has a Threat to Water
Quality and Complexity Rating of 1-A, pursuant to CCR Section 2200.
7. The Moorpark WTP has been undergoing a two-phase upgrade and expansion. The
plant was originally designed to provide secondary treatment to 3.0 million gallons per
day (mgd) of wastewater, and tertiary treatment to 1.5 mgd of secondary treated effluent.
The Phase I plant upgrade was completed and has been in operation since July 2001. It
included conversion of the aeration/polishing ponds secondary treatment system to an
activated sludge process, and the construction of a solids dewatering facility, solar
sludge drying beds, and a dewatered cake storage pad. The Phase I upgrade did not
change the plant’s design capacity.
8. The upgraded primary and secondary treatment systems consist of an in-channel
screening (Aqua Guard® screens), grit removal, Biolac® extended aeration system, and
secondary clarification. Secondary treated effluent is discharged to 30 onsite
percolation/evaporation ponds. Waste sludge is either dewatered using a belt press or
dried in sludge drying beds before being hauled away for land application to an
approved facility.
9. Tertiary treatment system consists of chemical flocculation, gravity settling, up-flow
Dynasand® filtration, and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite solution. During wet
weather, when the flow exceeds the percolation and reclamation capacity, the
disinfected tertiary treated effluent is dechlorinated prior to discharging into Arroyo Las
Posas, which is tributary to Mugu Lagoon.
Figures 3, and 4, show the schematic diagram of the wastewater flow.
10. Prior to the plant upgrade, VCWD was not able to meet the effluent turbidity limit of 5 NTU
contained in Order No. 00-049. Therefore, together with the issuance of Order No. 00-
049, the Regional Board also issued to VCWD a Time Schedule Order No. 00-050 (TSO)
that required VCWD comply with the turbidity limit by September 1, 2002. During the
Phase I plant upgrade period, VCWD was required to comply with the interim turbidity limit
of 8 NTU prescribed in the TSO. VCWD has completed the construction of the Phase I
upgrade and has been operating the upgraded plant since July 2001. Effluent monitoring
data for turbidity from October 2001 to March 2002 range from 0.2 to 3.95 NTU which
consistently met the effluent turbidity limit.
11. Currently, VCWD is proceeding with the Phase II plant upgrades that include increasing
the secondary treatment capacity to 5 mgd by expanding the Biolac extended aeration
system, providing nitrogen removal, increasing the pumping capacity of the sewer lift
station, and expanding the tertiary treatment capacity to 3 mgd. In addition, VCWD
intends to improve the solids handling capacity, convert the plant water system to recycled
water, improve reliability with additional stand-by power capacity, and increase the building
space for laboratory and operations.
2
[Page

===PLANNED CHANGES===

