[Page 103]
I~ (6) pH
iv. Process control data
I
(1) Primary sedimentation - hydraulic loading capacity and BOD and SS
removal
(2) Activated sludge - Food-to-microorganism (FIM) ratio, mean cell residence
time (MCRT), mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS), sludge yield, and
BOD and COD removal
(3) Secondary clarification - hydraulic and solids loading capacity, sludge
I volume index and sludge blanket depth
v. Operations information
(1) Operating logs
(2) Standard operating procedures
I (3) Operations and maintenance practices
I
vi. Process sidestream characterization data
(1) Sludge processing sidestreams
(2) Tertiary filter backwash
(3) Cooling water
vii. Combined sewer overflow (CSO) bypass data
(1) Frequency
(2) Volume
viii. Chemical coagulant usage for wastewater treatment and sludge processing
(1) Polymer
(2) Ferric chloride
(3) Alum
Attachment G
[Page 104]
WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2013-0046
JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD CARSON REGIONAL WATER RECYCLING PLANT NPDES NO. CA0064246
b. POTW influent and effluent characterization data
i. Toxicity
ii. Priority pollutants
iii. Hazardous pollutants
iv. SARA 31 3 pollutants,
v. Other chemical-specific monitoring results
c. Sewage residuals (raw, digested, thickened and dewatered sludge and
incinerator ash) characterization data
i. EPtoxicity
ii. Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP)
iii. Chemical analysis
d. Industrial waste survey (IWS)
ii. Information on IUs with categorical standards or local limits and other significant
non-categorical IUs
iii. Number of IUs
iv. Discharge flow
v. Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code
vi. Wastewater flow
(1) Types and concentrations of p

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning to expand recycled water treatment process in order to
accommodate increased demands from the Refinery:
1. Construct and install additional nitrification systems. These processes do not
produce any brackish wastewaters and will not contribute to the discharge to
the brine line.
2. Maximize RO. The Discharger will increase production of RO permeate by
utilizing the existing spare (fourth) RO train. The current system was designed
to produce 5 MGD of RO permeate by operating three RO trains, a keeping a
fourth train as backup. This will incre