[Page 57]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Carson Regional Water Recycling Plant located at 21029
South Wilmington Avenue, Carson, California. The Facility provides advanced treatment to Title 22
recycled water produced by West Basin Water Recycling Plant that is also owned and operated by
the Discharger. The Facility may discharge up to 0.9 MGD of reverse osmosis brine waste from the
treatment process to the Pacific Ocean (offshore of Palos Verdes), a water of the United States.
Brine waste is not treated prior to discharge.
The brine waste from the Facility first combines with effluent from JWPCP and the combined
effluent travels approximately 6 miles through tunnels prior to discharging into the Pacific Ocean via
the JWPCP outfalls. Annual effluent flows from JWPCP are approximately 320 MGD. The deep
ocean outfalls (Discharge Serial Nos. 001 and 002) of JWPCP provide an initial dilution of 166 parts
seawater to 1 part effluent (166:1).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility consists of two treatment trains. One train, referred to as the micro filtration/reverse
osmosis (MF/RO) plant consists of micro filtration, reverse osmosis, post decabonation, and pH
stabilization. West Basin distribute the high purity MF/RO recycled water to customers located
in the southern portion of the West Basin service areas. The second treatment train, referred to
as the ammonia removal or nitrification facilities, consists of biofiltration and break point
chlorination. The treated recycled water from this train is used in the industrial processes
(cooling towers/boilers).
The Facility was designed to be developed in two phases, depending on market volume for this
recycled water. Phase I of the project constructed a plant with a treatment capacity of 5.9 MGD
– MF/RO train capacity of over 5 MGD and nitrification facilities train capacity of 0.9 MGD. The
existing Phase I Facility generates approximately 0.9 MGD of waste brine. The second phase is
not currently budgeted for due to lack of extra customer demand. This second phase will
increase the MF/RO train capacity by 5 MGD (total MF/RO plant capacity will be 10.9 MGD).
West Basin will notify the Regional Water Board when the second phase comes under budget
consideration. After completion of Phase II, the Facility will generate approximately 1.8 MGD of
waste brine, and the NPDES permit will be revised, accordingly.
A flow diagram of the existing treatment process is provided in Attachment C of this Order.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Reverse osmosis brine waste from the Facility is routinely discharged through Discharge Points
001 and 002, to the Pacific Ocean, that corresponds to the JWPCP Discharge Serial Nos. 001
and 002. Discharge Point 003 (Discharge Serial No. 003 in the JWPCP permit) is used only
during times of heavy rains to provide hydraulic relief for flow in the outfall system. (Discharge
Point 004 (Discharge Serial No. 004 in th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

