[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger is a public agency that provides wholesale water to local utility companies and
municipal water departments within its service area. The Discharger provides potable water and
recycled water to 17 cities and unincorporated areas of southwest Los Angeles County. The
Carson WRP is owned by the Discharger and is located at 21029 South Wilmington Avenue,
Carson, California. The Carson WRP provides advanced treatment of tertiary-treated Title 22
recycled water produced at the Discharger’s Edward C. Little Water Recycling Facility (ECLWRF),
located approximately 10 miles northwest of the Facility. The Title 22 recycled water from
ECLWRF is also used at schools, golf courses, parks, medians, and dual plumbed systems
throughout the district before reaching the Carson WRP. The disinfected tertiary Title 22 recycled
water is continuously treated by microfiltration and reverse osmosis for refinery boiler feed, or by
nitrification at the Carson WRP for refinery cooling towers. The reverse osmosis brine is the only
waste stream produced at the Carson WRP that discharges to the Pacific Ocean (see section II.B
of Attachment F for detailed information), via the JWPCP outfalls, a water of the United States. All
other wastes from the treatment processes at the Carson WRP are discharged to the sanitary
sewer.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. The Carson WRP currently has a total design treatment capacity of 7.15 MGD and
consists of two treatment trains. The first treatment train produces approximately 5 MGD
advanced-treated recycled water by treating tertiary-treated effluent from the ECLWRF
with microfiltration, reverse osmosis (MF/RO), and decarbonation. Approximately 0.9
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted 06/14/18) F-6
[Page 74]
WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER R4-2018-0090
JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD CARSON REGIONAL WATER RECYCLING PLANT NPDES NO. CA0064246
MGD reverse osmosis brine is produced during this process and is discharged to the
ocean. The permeate (recycled water produced from the RO process) is used for boiler
feed water or mixed with nitrified water for use in cooling towers at the neighboring
refinery. The second treatment train produces approximately 1.25 MGD nitrified recycled
water by treating tertiary-treated recycled water from the Edward C. Little Water
Recycling Plant by using nitrification in a Biofor® biofiltration system and break-point
chlorination. The recycled water from the nitrification system is used for cooling towers at
the neighboring refinery. The other waste streams produced at the facility are discharged
to the sanitary sewer.
2. Biosolids are only processed at ECLWRF, not at the Carson WRP. Since the Carson
WRP only processes disinfected tertiary-treated Title 22 recycled water, biosolids
requirements were not included in this Order.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Reverse osmosis brine waste produced at the Facility is discharged to a brine line that
leads to JWPCP’s surge tower, approximately 4 miles southwest of the Facility. The
brine immediately commingles with JWPCP’s secondary effluent and the combined
effluent exits the pipeline through JWPCP’s Discharge Points 001, 002, 003, and 004.
These four discharge points are located at White Point off the Palos Verdes Penin

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Due in part to the impact of drought, water conservation efforts, and industrial water demands
on the quality of product water, West Basin is currently in the process of evaluating the need
to make facility modifications to produce a higher quality product water for the neighboring
refinery. A new proposed 2.0 MGD tertiary membrane bioreactor (tMBR) would produce
higher quality water by reducing the concentrations of ammonia as nitrogen in the recycled
water that is supplied to the Tesoro Refinery cooling towers. The reduction of ammonia
content is intended to help prevent corrosion in the cooling towers. The waste from the tMBR
will be conveyed to the Los Angeles County Sanitation Districts Sewer system. In addition,
the existing 5.88 MGD microfiltration process will be replaced with a new 5.88 MGD
microfiltration system that utilizes polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes. These
changes are not expected to impact the quality or the total amount of brine waste produced.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing wit