[Page 1]
The current wastewater disposal method is outdated and inadequate to support
operational requirements at the Facility. The Discharger plans to expand the onsite
wastewater treatment system (OWTS) with an advanced onsite wastewater treatment
facility and an evaporation pond. The new system will be capable of treating 5,000 gallons
per day (gpd) of primarily domestic wastewater generated by employees and detainees
at the Facility. Minor wastewater flows of 300 gpd to 500 gpd include membrane
backwash from potable water treatment system consisting of a membrane filtration
system, ultraviolet disinfection units and hypochlorite injection. The waste stream will also
include 300 gpd of vehicle wash water, which is treated by an oil/dust separator prior to
discharging to a septic tank. The biofiltration will be installed north of the Administration
Building, east of the Alamitos Canal as shown on Attachment 1. The Facility is located
in a remote area with no access to municipal water or wastewater systems as shown in
Attachment 2. The property is relatively flat, at an elevation of 15 to 20 feet above mean
sea level (MSL). The site is in an area of minimal flood hazard, Zone X, and not subject
to a 1D O-year flood event, as defined by FEMA.
The expansion to the OWTS will use a biofiltration system that uses earthworms and
microbial processes to provide secondary treatment to the wastewater. The system
consists of a bed of wood shavings underlain by drain rock and an effluent recovery
system. The biofiltration system uses an industry-specific mix of worms and bacteria to
achieve maximum reduction efficiencies on parameters such as Biochemical Oxygen
Demand (BOD); total suspended solids (TSS); fats, oils, and grease (FOG); total
Nitrogen; ammonia; and phosphorous. The burrowing worms create air channels, digest
suspended solids, and can achieve densities of 12,000 worms per cubic yard. The worm
beds are not in direct sunlight and include a solar cooling fan. Wastewater is screened
and adjusted for pH before being intermittently sprinkled over the surface of the bed. The
drain rock layer has passive vents.
The process, shown in Attachment 3, is similar to a recirculating gravel filter. The
recirculating gravel filter consists of a sprinkler system of intermittent application to a bed
of pea gravel underlain by drain rock. The hydraulic loading rates for recirculating gravel
filters range from 3 to 5 gallons per day per square foot (gpd/ft2). The BOD loading rates
for recirculating gravel filters range from 87 to 348 lb/acre-day, which is similar to low-rate
trickling filters.
[Page 2]
Notice of Applicability 3 December 13, 2019
Calexico Border Patrol Station WWTP
The treated wastewater will be conveyed to an adjacent evaporation pond. The pond has
a water surface area of 1 acre and a capacity of 512,000 gallons, at 2 feet deep, with 2
feet of freeboard. The existing septic tank will remain onsite and provide primary solids
removal prior to treatment in the biofiltration unit. Sludge and solid waste from the
treatment facility will be periodically hauled away. The Water Balance calculation
performed shows that the size of the pond is sufficient to accommodate a daily loading of
5,000 gpd. Best practices will be observed to minimize objectionable odors, minimize
weeds and algae growth, and prevent breeding of mosquitos. •
REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS
With respect to groundwater quality objectives, the Water Quality Control Plan for the
Colorado River Basin Region (Basin Plan) states that the Regional Water Board's goal is
to m

===PLANNED CHANGES===

