[Page 2]
3. On October 1, 2015, the Regional Board directed the City to submit a Report of Waste
Discharge (ROWD) for application of renewal of the City's WDRs to discharge treated
wastewater from the SPWRF to the percolation pond. On December 5, 2015, the City filed
its ROWD for the SPWRF.
February 8, 2018
[Page 3]
City of Santa Paula Order No. R4-2018-0022
Santa Paula Water Recycling Facility File No. 06-189
4. To verify the information provided in the ROWD, Regional Board staff conducted inspections
of the SPWRF on December 8, 2015 and December 28, 2016, including the wastewater
treatment processes, percolation ponds, and groundwater monitoring wells.
5. The purpose of this Order is to renew WDRs for the City's SPWRF. This Order includes
updates to effluent limitations, groundwater limitations, and Monitoring and Reporting
Program (MRP) Cl No. 9259 to ensure that the City's discharge of waste complies with water
quality objectives set forth in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region:
Basin P

[Page 4]
11. SPWRF Treatment
A. The SPWRF treats wastewater generated within the City and is designed for a flow of
4.2 MGD. Based on the discharge records between July 2010 and June 2017, the
monthly average effluent discharged from the SPWRF ranged between 1.36 and 2.44
MGD, with an average of 1.86 MGD.
B. The wastewater treatment process at the SPWRF (See Figure 3 for process flow
schematic) consists of preliminary treatment (coarse and fine mechanical screening
and grit removal at the Influent Lift Station), flow equalization (two flow equalization
tanks), secondary treatment (three aeration tanks with nitrification and denitrification
activated sludge), tertiary treatment (six biomembrane reactors, providing further
carbonaceous oxidation, nitrification/denitrification and solids removal to meet the
limits of the WDRs), and disinfection (UV). Treated and disinfected effluent is
discharged to three percolation ponds (Figure 4). The returned activated sludge is
treated at two of three aerobic digesters (one aerobic digester is for backup) after
being thickened at two thickeners. The solids generated at the aerobic digesters
receive final dewatering at the screw dewatering press. Final solids meeting the United
States Environmental Protection agency (USEPA) Class B reuse standards are sent
to the Ventura County Regional Bio-Solids facility.
C. The SPWRF was not designed to remove chloride. Since the SPWRF has no ability
to remove chloride, chloride is passed through to the effluent and then groundwater
via discharges to the percolation pond.
3
[Page 5]
City of Santa Paula Order No. R4-2018-0022
Santa Paula Water Recycling Facility File No. 06-189
D. The City owns and operates the sewer collection system, which conveys domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater to the SPWRF. Two industrial users within the
City are Aurora Casting (metal foundry) and Saticoy Lemon (lemon packing house).
The City is required to implement a Pretrea

===PLANNED CHANGES===

