[Page 2]
11. SPWRF Treatment
3
[Page 3]
City of Santa Paula File No. 06-189
Order No. R4-2018-0022-A01
A. The SPWRF treats wastewater generated within the City and is designed for a
flow of 4.2 MGD. Based on the discharge records between July 2010 and June
2017, the monthly average effluent discharged from the SPWRF ranged
between 1.36 and 2.44 MGD, with an average of 1.86 MGD. The monthly
average effluent discharge flow rates between February 2018 and December
2021 ranged from 1.03 to 3.4 MGD, with an average of 1.86 MGD.
B. The wastewater treatment process at the SPWRF (See Figure 3 for process
flow schematic) consists of preliminary treatment (coarse and fine mechanical
screening and grit removal at the Influent Lift Station), flow equalization (two
flow equalization tanks), secondary treatment (three aeration tanks with
nitrification and denitrification activated sludge), tertiary treatment (six
membrane bioreactors, providing further carbonaceous oxidation,
nitrification/denitrification and solids removal to meet the limits of the WDRs),
and disinfection (UV). Treated and disinfected effluent is discharged to three
percolation ponds (Figure 5). The returned activated sludge is treated at two of
three aerobic digesters (one aerobic digester is for backup) after being
thickened at two thickeners. The solids generated at the aerobic digesters
receive final dewatering at the screw dewatering press. Final solids are hauled
by Synargro to their South Kern Compost Manufacturing Facility where they
are composted to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
Class A reuse standards for agricultural reuse.
C. To address levels of chloride in the effluent, an advanced treatment system,
consisting of reverse osmosis (RO), will be constructed at the SPWRF, which
will be designed to reduce the chloride concentration in the effluent to 110
milligrams per liter (mg/L) or less. The RO system will consist of nanofiltration
and RO units to reduce effluent chloride concentrations followed by a RO brine
concentrator (Figure 4).
D. The City owns and operates the sewer collection system, which conveys
domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater to the SPWRF. Two industrial
users within the City are Aurora Casting (metal foundry) and Saticoy Lemon
(lemon packing house). The City is required to implement a Pretreatmen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

