[Page 85]
1. The Newhall Ranch WRP will be a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry
weather design capacity of 2.0 MGD. Untreated wastewater will be collected from the
new housing developments and commercial sites located within the Newhall Ranch
Specific Plan area. Treatment at the Newhall Ranch WRP will consist of screening for
removal of large solids, activated sludge biological treatment with membrane
bioreactors, nitrification and denitrification, partial reverse osmosis (or equivalent
demineralization), and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. Wastewater may be discharged
intermittently from Discharge Point 001 (see Table 2 on the cover page) to the Santa
Clara River, a water of the United States, when the demand for recycled water is low.
In the ROWD submittal for the 2013 NPDES Order, Newhall Ranch SD proposed to
have a diffuser at Discharge Point 001; however, the design drawings prepared by
Pacific Advanced Civil Engineering indicated that the sewer outfall pipe, its slope, the
trail finish grade above the pipe, and the rip rap around the outfall will be planned by
others. In the 2018 ROWD submittal, Newhall Ranch SD indicated that the
determination has yet to be made regarding the need for a diffuser and its configuration.
Two options are depicted in the Process Flow Diagram for solids processing at the plant.
Sewage solids separated from the wastewater will either be dewatered with a belt
thickener and trucked to the Valencia WRP or pumped through a pipe to the Valencia
WRP for processing, where treatment and disposal would occur, under Valencia WRP’s
NPDES permit.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted 06/13/19) F-6
[Page 86]
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2019-0077
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0064556
2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment, based on the ROWD submittal and the Preliminary Design Report prepared
by CH2MHill in 2003.
a. Influent grinding: Solids such as paper and rags would be ground prior to entering
the treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the mechanical parts
of the treatment chain.
b. Grit removal and screening: Rotating drum type fine screens will be utilized to
remove particulate matter that is larger than 1 millimeter (a requirement of the
membrane manufacturer). Grit, which consists of a wide assortment of inorganic
solids such as pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments will be
removed by settling. Rags and plastics will be removed by screening. This material
will be collected and disposed of in a landfill.
c. Step Feed Activated Sludge (SFAS): Biological treatment using SFAS with
nitrification and denitrification will be used to remove nitrogen from the wastewater.
The SFAS system will consist of two anoxic zones and two aerobic zones. Aeration
in the aerobic zone provides oxygen for living microorganisms that are produced
and maintained to breakdown and consume the organic material, such as ammonia,
in the incoming wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with such microorganisms is
known as mixed liquor. In the anoxic zone, denitrification is accomplished
biologically, by anaerobic microorganisms that consume organic matter in the
wastewater and reduce nitrates to nitrogen gas.
d. Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) Filtration: A suspended growth biological reactor
that utilizes ultrafiltration membranes will be used for secondary treatment process,
to reduce the organic content and particulate matter in the wastewater, and achieve
clarification/filtration. The ultrafiltration membrane system is immersed in the
aeration tank and filtration is achieved by drawing water through the membrane
surface under a vacuum produced by suction permeate pumps. In effect, the
membrane system replaces the function of the secondary clarifiers and granular
media filtration system. The membrane has a maximum pore size of 0.2 microns
with an average pore size of 0.07 microns, placing it almost in the ultrafiltration
range. Ultrafiltration membranes will be installed in separate aerated tanks at the
end of the SFAS system.
e. Reverse Osmosis: Reverse osmosis treatment is proposed for a portion of the
MBR treated effluent at the Newhall Ranch WRP, to achieve chloride reduction.
The permeate would be blended with MBR effluent which had not undergone RO
treatment, to achieve the desired final effluent chloride concentration. RO is
expected to reduce the chloride levels in the treated effluent by approximately 95%.
Brine will be disposed of in one of two ways: by deep well injection (through a
separate USEPA permit already obtained) or by trucking it to the Joint Water
Pollution Control Plant for treatment and ocean disposal.
f. Flow Equalization: Flow equalization will be provided in the Newhall Ranch WRP
through in-tank equalization and an onsite storage pond (with a 0.8 mgd holding
capacity). This allows for adjustments of flow within the plant throughout the day,
during peak flow conditions, and during storm events. Once the storm event/ peak
flow conditions have subsided, the overflow stored in the pond will be pumped back
to the plant headworks for treatment.
g. UV disinfection: Irradiation with UV light will be used as the method of disinfection
at the Newhall Ranch WRP. Although it provides no residual, this method is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted 06/13/19) F-7
[Page 87]
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2019-0077
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0064556
effective in inactivating both bacteria and viruses. When applied to low-turbidity
water, it has been proven to be effective. UV spans wavelengths from 2000-3900
angstroms. The most effective band for disinfection is in the shorter range of 2000-
3000 angstroms.
h. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite will be used as a cleaning agent for the
bioreactor membranes.
i. Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings will be hauled off-site for disposal in a
landfill. Sludge may be disposed of using one of two options: transporting the wet
sludge to the Valencia WRP in a pipeline, or trucking the dewatered sludge from a
gravity belt thickener to the Valencia WRP.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Newhall Ranch WRP will discharge tertiary-treated municipal wastewater
intermittently to the Santa Clara River. Newhall Ranch SD plans on applying for separate
Water Reclamation Requirements to recycle tertiary treated effluent. The remaining
treated effluent that is not recycled will be discharged from the plant to surface wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

