[Page 99]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Newhall Ranch WRP will be a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry
weather design capacity of 2.0 MGD. Phase 1 of the POTW is expected to serve an
estimated population of 17,650. Untreated wastewater will be collected from the new
housing developments and commercial sites located within the Newhall Ranch
Specific Plan area. Treatment at the Newhall Ranch WRP will consist of screening
for removal of large solids, activated sludge biological treatment with membrane
ATTACHMENT F-FACT SHEET F-7
ADOPTED: 12/19/2024
[Page 100]
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2024-0390
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0064556
bioreactors, nitrification and denitrification, partial reverse osmosis (or equivalent
demineralization), and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. Wastewater may be
discharged intermittently from Discharge Point 001 to the Santa Clara River, a water
of the United States, when the demand for recycled water is low. Newhall Ranch SD
initially proposed to have a diffuser at Discharge Point 001; however, the design
drawing of the whole treatment plant prepared by Pacific Advanced Civil
Engineering indicated that the detailed drawings of the sewer outfall pipe, its slope,
the trail finish grade above the pipe, and the rip rap around the outfall will be
planned by others. Newhall Ranch SD is currently reviewing the need for a diffuser
and its configuration, so a contractor has not yet been selected to complete the final
design of the diffuser. Two options are depicted in the Process Flow Diagram for
solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated from the wastewater will
either be dewatered with a belt thickener and trucked to the Valencia WRP or
pumped through a pipe to the Valencia WRP for processing, where treatment and
disposal will occur, regulated under Valencia WRP’s NPDES permit (NPDES No.
CA0054216).
2.1.2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment, based on the ROWD submittal and the Preliminary Design Report
prepared by CH2MHill in 2003. The design of the Facility is scheduled to be
complete by 2028 and the schedule for

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes are discussed in section
2.5.
2.1.2.1. Influent grinding. Solids such as paper and rags would be ground prior to
entering the treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the
mechanical parts of the treatment chain.
2.1.2.2. Grit removal and screening. Rotating drum fine screens will be utilized to
remove particulate matter that is larger than 1 millimeter (a requirement of the
membrane manufacturer). Grit, which consists of a wide assortment of inorganic
solids such as pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments will be
removed by settling. Rags and plastics will be removed by screening. This
material will be collected and disposed of in a landfill.
2.1.2.3. Step Feed Activated Sludge (SFAS). Biological treatment using SFAS with
nitrification and denitrification will be used to remove nitrogen from the wastewater.
The SFAS system will consist of two anoxic zones and two aerobic zones. Aeration
in the aerobic zone provides oxygen for living microorganisms that are produced
and maintained to breakdown and consume the organic material, such as
ammonia, in the incoming wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with such
microorganisms is known as mixed liquor. In the anoxic zone, denitrification is
accomplished biologically, by anaerobic microorganisms that consume organic
matter in the wastewater and reduce nitrates to nitrogen gas.
2.1.2.4. Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) filtration. A suspended growth biological reactor
that utilizes ultrafiltration membranes will be used as a secondary treatment
process, to reduce the organic content and particulate matter in the wastewater,
and achieve clarification/filtration. The ultrafiltration membrane system is
immersed in the aeration tank and filtration is achieved by drawing water through
ATTACHMENT F-FACT SHEET F-8
ADOPTED: 12/19/2024
[Page 101]
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2024-0390
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0064556
the membrane surface under a vacuum produced by suction permeate pumps. In
effect, the membrane system replaces the function of the secondary clarifiers and
granular media filtration system. The membrane has a maximum pore size of 0.2
microns with an average pore size of 0.07 microns, placing it almost in the
ultrafiltration range. Ultrafiltration membranes will be installed in separate aerated
tanks at the end of the SFAS system.
2.1.2.5. Reverse Osmosis (RO). Reverse osmosis treatment is proposed for a portion of
the MBR treated effluent at the Newhall Ranch WRP to achieve chloride reduction.
The permeate will be blended with MBR effluent that has not been treated by RO
to achieve the desired final effluent chloride concentration. RO is expected to
reduce the chloride levels in the RO-treated portion of the effluent by approximately
95%. During the 2019 permit renewa