[Page 10]
4. For Subsurface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional
'
Provisions Apply:
[Page 11]
New small domestic systems shall reserve sufficient land area for possible -
future 100 percent replacement of the subsurface disposal area until such
time as the discharger's facility is connected to a municipal sewerage
system.
Certification
' The undersigned, Administrative Assistant to the SWRCB, does hereby certify that the
foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of an order duly and regularly adopted at a
meeting of the State Water Resources Control Board held on November 18, 1997.
AYE: John Caffrey
James M. Stubchaer -
Marc Del Piero
.
Mary Jane Forster
John W. Brown
NO: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None
~dministrativeA ssistant. to the Board
[Page 12]
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 97-10-DWQ
FOR
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS (WDRs)
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTE SYSTEMS
Septic Tank Monitoring
Effluent Monitoring
.
Monitoring of septic tank effluent shall include the following:
t
Type of
Parameter Units ~ a r n d ~ e Samplina Frequency
Flow ~stimate Monthly
. .
low
estimates may be obtained from water meter readings.
Maintenance and lnspection
I
Septic tanks shall be inspected and pumped as described below. An inspection is not
required during the year a septictank is pumped.
Type of Minimum
'
Parameter Units Measurement Inspection Fre~uency
Sludge depth and scum Feet Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
thickness in each compartment year)
-
of each septic tank
Distance between bottom of lnches Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
scum layer and bottom of year)'
outlet device
Distance between top of Inches Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
sludge layer and bottom of
year)
outlet device
Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exist, or may
. ... .
,
occur before the next inspection:
[Page 13]
a. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one-third of the tank depth -
of the first compartment; or,
b. The scum layer is within three inches of the outlet device; or,
c. The sludge layer is within eight inches of the outlet device.
In lieu of septic tank measuring, the septic tank may be pumped annually.
Activated Sludoe Systems Monitorinq
,
Influent Monitorinq
Monitoring of Activated Sludge System influent shall consist of the following:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequency
--
Daily Flow GalsJday Daily
20°C BOD5 mgll . 24-hr composite Monthly
Total Suspended Solids mgll . 24-hr composite . Monthly
Effluent Monitorinq
Monitoring of Activated Sludge systems' effluent shall consist of the following:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequency
2 0 ' ~B OD5 mgll 24-hr composite weekly1
Total suspended' Solids rngll 24-hr composite weekly1
Nitrate as NO3-N mg/l Grab. weekly1
'
Total Nitrogen . mgll Grab weekly
-
Total Coliform MPNI Grab weekly1
.I0 0 ml
Effluent sampling shall be conducted concurrently with influent monitoring. The total
.
average daily flow sh.all be calculated on a monthly basis. Time of collection of grab.
.
samples shall be recorded.
If the discharge is intermittent rather than continuous, then on the first day of each such
intermittent discharge, the discharger shall monitor and record data for all of the
parameters listed above, after which the frequencies of analysis given in the schedules
shall apply for the duration of each such intermittent discharge. In no event shall the
discharger be required to monitor and record data more often than twice the
frequencies listed in the schedules.
[Page 14]
(cid:144) on it or in^
Aerated Pond Systems
. .
Influent Monitoring
Monitoring of Aerated pond Systems' influent shall consist of the following:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequencv
--
Daily Flow Galsldav Daily
- - --J
20°C BOD5 mg/l Grab Monthly, -
Total Suspended Solids mgfl Grab Monthly.
'
Monitoring of Aerated Pond System effluent shall consist of the following
Type of
Parameter Units -&D,& . Samplina Freauencv
20°C BOD5 mgll Grab weekly1
Total Suspended Solids mgll Grab wee klyl
Nitrate as NO3-N 'mgfl Grab wee klyl
Total Nitrogen mgfl Grab weekly1
Total Coliform MPN/lOOml Grab weekly1
,
Effluent sampling shall be conducted concurrently with influent monitoring. The total
average daily flow shall be calcula

===PLANNED CHANGES===

