[Page 0]
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM, TUOLUMNE COUNTY·
The Stanislaus County Office of Education submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (RWD)
dated 18 December 2006, for coverage of a septic system at Foothill Horizons School
under Water Quality Order No. 97-10-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for
Discharges to Land by Small Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems (hereafter General
Order). The RWD consists of a Form 200 and a $1,962 filing fee. The RWD contains all
the technical information required; therefore, the RWD is complete.
Based on the information provided in the RWD, the discharge meets the conditions of the
General Order. All the requirements contained within the General Order described as
applicable to "All Small Domestic Systems," and "Subsurface Disposal Systems" apply to ·
your onsite wastewater treatment and disposal system (onsite system). You are hereby
assigned coverage under General Order No. 97-1 O-DWQ-R5051.
PROJECT LOCATION
The onsite system is located in Tuolumne County, at Latitude 38.01 ° North and Longitude
120.32° West. ,
The onsite system is in the Sacramento and San Joaquin River Basin. The Water Quality
Control Plan. for the Sacramento and San Joaquin River Basin, Fourth Edition (hereafter
Basin Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve water quality objectives for all waters of ·
the Basin.
The Regional Water Board's policy regarding the design. and operation of onsite system is
described in the enclosed Guidelines for Waste Disposal from Land. Developments
(hereafter Guidelines), which are incorporated in the Basin Plan.
California Environmental Protection Agency
{:/f.ecycled Paper
[Page 1]
Ms .. Kathy Lasiter - 2 - 11 July 2008
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Foothill Horizon School is an existing facility with two 1,500-gallon septic tanks. In addition
to the two existing septic tanks a new septic tank of 8,000 gallons will be installed to·
accommodate a maximum occupancy of 200 students. A wastewater volume of 11,000
gallons per day will be discharged into leachfields.
This Notice of Applicability (NOA) regulates the septic system at Foothill Horizons School
and its discharge of domestic wastewater to land.
FACILITY-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
1. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in
the RWD is prohibited.
2. The existing onsite system shall be operated as described in the RWD and in
accordance with the requirements contained in the General Order and in the
enclosed Guidelin

===PLANNED CHANGES===

