[Page 91]
1. SOCWA Regional Treatment Plant
The SOCWA RTP, located at 29201 La Paz Road, Laguna Niguel, is owned by SOCWA
and treats raw wastewater generated in the MNWD service area. Wastewater treatment unit
operations and processes are screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation,
activated sludge aeration, and secondary clarification. A portion of the secondary effluent is
reclaimed for irrigation and receives tertiary treatment by chemical addition, coagulation,
filtration, and chlorine disinfection. The capacity of the existing tertiary treatment facility is
11.4 MGD. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Diego Region’s (San
Diego Water Board’s) Order No. 97-52 establishes reclamation requirements for the reuse of
effluent from the SOCWA RTP in the San Diego Region. The SOCWA RTP treats solids
produced by the SOCWA RTP, raw solids trucked to the plant from the El Toro WRP, and
raw solids transported by force main from the SOCWA CTP. Solids treatment consists of
dissolved air flotation thickening, anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering.
Dewatered biosolids are removed from the facility by a private contractor and are either sent
to a composting facility in Kern County, California or La Paz County, Arizona. Screenings
and grit are transported by a private contractor to a sanitary landfill in Simi Valley.
2. SOCWA Coastal Treatment Plant
The SOCWA CTP, located at 28303 Alicia Parkway, Laguna Niguel, is owned and operated
by SOCWA and treats raw wastewater generated in the SCWD, the City of Laguna Beach,
and the Emerald Bay Services District. Wastewater treatment and unit operations and
processes are screening, aerated grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge
aeration, and secondary clarification. A portion of the secondary effluent is reclaimed for
irrigation and receives tertiary treatment by chemical addition, coagulation, filtration, and
chlorine disinfection. The capacity of the existing tertiary treatment facility is 4.2 MGD. The
San Diego Water Board’s Order No. 97-52 establishes reclamation requirements for the
reuse of effluent from the SOCWA CTP in the San Diego Region. Primary sludge and
thickened waste activated sludge are combined and pumped through a force main to the
SOCWA RTP for treatment and disposal. Screenings and grit are transported by a private
contractor to a sanitary landfill in Simi Valley.
The SOCWA CTP also receives nuisance dry weather runoff flows diverted to the sanitary
sewer system by the City of Laguna Beach during the summer period (Memorial Day
through the end of September). To improve downstream receiving water quality, urban
runoff flows of up to 0.235 MGD are diverted to the sewer from approximately 15 sites.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 92]
SOUTHERN ORANGE COUNTY WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2012-0013
AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2014-0098
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
3. IRWD Los Alisos Water Reclamation Plant
IRWD Los Alisos Water Recycling Plant. The Los Alisos WRP, located at 22312 Muirlands
Boulevard in Lake Forest, is owned and operated by the IRWD and treats raw wastewater
generated within the IRWD service area. Secondary treatment capacity at the Los Alisos
WRP is 7.5 mgd. Secondary treatment unit operation and processes include screening and
aerated lagoons. Dewatered biosolids are trucked to a composting facility in La Paz County,
Arizona. Screenings and grit from the plant influent are hauled to a Class I Landfill. A
portion of the Los Alisos WRP secondary effluent is reclaimed for irrigation and receives
tertiary treatment by chemical addition, flash mixing, coagulation, flocculation,
sedimentation, filtration, and chlorine disinfection. The capacity of the Los Alisos WRP
tertiary treatment facility is 5.5 mgd. Santa Ana Regional Water Quality Control Board Order
No. 94-03 establishes reclamation requirements for the reuse of effluent from the Los Alisos
WRP within the Santa Ana Region. San Diego Regional Board Order No. 97-52 establishes
reclamation requirements for the reuse of effluent from the Los Alisos WRP in the San Diego
Region. The Los Alisos WRP tertiary treatment facility is operated seasonally to meet
higher summer-time demands for recycled water in the Lake Forest area. During periods of
lower demand, tertiary treated effluent from the Michelson Water Recycling Plant in Irvine is
pumped to the Irvine Zone B recycled water system and supplied to the wet well of the Los
Alisos WRP recycled water pump station. From the wet-well, the recycled water can be: (1)
Pumped to the Lake Forest Zone A recycled water system for irrigation purposes; or (2)
Gravity fed into the final series of treatment ponds, blended with secondary treated water in
the pond, and pumped to ocean outfall via the SOCWA effluent pump station.
4. El Toro Water District Water Reclamation Plant
The El Toro WRP, located at 23542 Moulton Parkway, Laguna Hills, is owned by El Toro
Water District and treats raw wastewater generated in the El Toro Water District service
area. Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes are coarse screening, aerated
grit removal, fine screening, activated sludge aeration, and secondary clarification. A
portion of the secondary effluent is reclaimed for irrigation and receives filtering and chlorine
disinfection. The Santa Ana Regional Water Board Order No. 94-03 establishes reclamation
requirements for the reuse of effluent form the El Toro WRP in the Santa Ana Region. The
San Diego Water Board’s Order No. 97-52 establishes reclamation requirements for the
reuse of effluent form the El Toro WRP in the San Diego Region. Waste activated sludge is
thickened using dissolved air floatation and then trucked to the SOCWA RTP for treatment
and disposal. Screenings and grit are transported by a private contractor to a sanitary
landfill in Simi Valley.
5. Irvine Desalter Project
The IDP is a multifaceted project operated by IRWD. The IDP includes a Potable Water
Treatment System (PWTS) that generates residual brine, and a Shallow Groundwater Unit
(SGU) that treats contaminated groundwater.
The IDP PWTS is located approximately 4 miles southeast of the intersection of Sand
Canyon Avenue and Irvine Center Drive in Irvine, California. The potable water operations
involve extracting up to 4.61 MGD of groundwater from wells upgradient of the contaminated
groundwater plume in Irvine, California. Groundwater treatment includes the addition of
sulfuric acid and a threshold inhibitor; cartridge filters; reverse osmosis (RO); the addition of
sodium hypochlorite (bleach); a decarbonator; and the addition of sodium hydroxide (caustic
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 93]
SOUTHERN ORANGE COUNTY WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2012-0013
AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2014-0098
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
soda), bleach, and aqueous ammonia. The product water is distributed as potable water.
Periodically, the RO membranes are taken off-line and cleaned and all cleaning solution is
discharged to sewer. The IDP PWTS generates up to 1.0 MGD of RO concentrate, or brine,
which is discharged to the ACOO.
The IDP SGU treats groundwater extracted from wells located either within or near a plume
of groundwater contaminated by volatile organic compounds (VOC) on or near the former
Marine Corps Air Station El Toro. The prim

[Page 98]
1. Compliance Evaluation Inspections (CEIs) of the SOCWA RTP were conducted on five
occasions between 2007 and 2011. Compliance issues noted by inspectors were as
follows::
a. On January 11, 2007:
i. The Discharger failed to include the flow at monitoring locations M-001E and M-001F
in the facility’s calculation of the combined effluent flow at the ocean outfall (M-001).
The excluded flow represented less than 2 percent of the total flow at M-001.
b. On February 12, 2008:
i. A flow measurement devise was not installed at the influent to the treatment plant.
ii. Staff collected oil and grease samples in a plastic container and transferred the
sample to a glass container prior to transport to a contract laboratory for analysis.
iii. The Facility’s written procedures state that composite samples collected for Part 503
(biosolids) metals analysis are to be comprised of at least four grab samples
collected every 2 hour. Records were not maintained to document when the grab
samples were collected and laboratory personnel were not able to confirm that the
samples submitted for analysis by the operators were composite samples.
iv. The inspector was not able to verify that pH measurements were made within the
specified 15-minute holding time because the time of analysis was not recorded on
the analytical work sheets.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-12
[Page 99]
SOUTHERN ORANGE COUNTY WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2012-0013
AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2014-0098
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
c. On January 14, 2009:
i. The Facility’s written procedures state that composite samples collected for Part 503
(biosolids) metals analysis are to be comprised of at least four grab samples
collected every 2 hours. Records were not maintained to document when the grab
samples were collected and laboratory personnel were not able to confirm that the
samples submitted for analysis by the operators were composite samples.
ii. The Facility has not submitted written reports to the San Diego Water Board
indicating when the monthly average influent flow rate equaled or exceeded 75
percent of the design secondary treatment capacity. The Facility representative
stated that the average treatment flow at the SOCWA RTP is 10.5 MGD. The flow
rate at which the Facility’s monthly average influent flow would exceed 75 percent of
the design capacity of 12.0 MGD is 9.0 MGD.
iii. The Discharger reported several exceedances of receiving water limitation during
October and November 2008.
iv. The Facility was not conducting cont

[Page 100]
2. CEIs of the SOCWA CTP were conducted on three occasions between 2007 and 2010.
Compliance issues noted by inspectors were as follows:
a. On January 11, 2007:
i. Neither influent flow meter was operational during the inspection.
ii. The inspector noted that the current effluent flow meter location is situated so that
flow variations may create inaccurate readings.
iii. The inspector found that the effluent self-monitoring location is not located so that a
representative sample may be collected.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-14
[Page 101]
SOUTHERN ORANGE COUNTY WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2012-0013
AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2014-0098
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
b. On February 11, 2008:
i. The Facility is designed to measure influent flow for two force mains with strap-on
sonic meters. One of the influent flow meters was not operational.
ii. The location of the effluent flow meter is not representative of the actual discharge to
the Ocean Outfall.
iii. The secondary treated effluent sampling location may not provide representative
samples of the discharge to the Ocean Outfall.
iv. The inspector was unable to verify that pH tests were conducted within the 15-minute
holding time because neither the time of sample collection nor the time of analysis
was recorded in the monitoring logbook.
c. On January 15, 2009:
i. The Facility was not conducting continuous flow monitoring as specified in the
Monitoring and Reporting Program.
ii. The inspector found that the location of the effluent flow meter and the effluent
sampling point used are not representative of the actual discharge to the ACOO.
The Facility had installed, but not used, a new magnetic flow meter and effluent
sampler in appropriate locations.
iii. The inspector noted large solids in the secondary clarifier effluent and the
equalization retention basin near the effluent weir box. The Facility representative
stated that the solids treatment process was offline and would be back on-line within
one week of the inspection.
d. On March 4, 2010:
i. The inspector did not note any major findings.
3. CEIs of the Los Alisos WRP were conducted on three occasions between 2007 and 2011.
Compliance issues noted by inspectors were as follows:
a. On January 11, 2007:
i. The inspector did not note any major findings.
b. On February 13, 2008:
i. The Dischar

===PLANNED CHANGES===

