[Page 99]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Simi Valley WQCP is a tertiary wastewater treatment plant with a dry weather
design capacity of 12.5 MGD that serves an estimated population of 126,400
people, and receives wastewater from the City of Simi Valley and unincorporated
sections of Ventura County. The Simi Valley WQCP generates an average monthly
flow of 8 MGD tertiary-treated wastewater.
2.1.2. The wastewater is a mixture of industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant
to 40 CFR part 403 and regulated under the City of Simi Valley’s approved
pretreatment program and domestic wastewater. There have been no substantial
changes to the Discharger’s pretreatment program during the last permit cycle. The
Simi Valley WQCP receives waste from 4 significant industrial users (SIUs), which
contribute approximately 2.2 MG of industrial wastewater annually to the Simi Valley
WQCP.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Simi Valley WQCP consists of preliminary treatment (bar
screens and grit chamber), primary sedimentation, flow equalization basin, activated
Attachment F – Fact Sheet
Adopted: 5/28/2026 F-4
[Page 100]
City of Simi Valley Order No. R4-2026-0150
Simi Valley Water Quality Control Plant NPDES No. CA0055221
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, lagoons, dual media filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination.
2.1.4. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Simi Valley WQCP. The
disinfectant is dosed prior to the chlorine contact chamber and occasionally added
prior to the filters to minimize algal growth. Additional disinfectant may be dosed
prior to a chlorine contact chamber. Prior to being discharged to Arroyo Simi, sodium
bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine. Effluent
delivered to end users for land application is not dechlorinated.
2.1.5. Primary sludge is anaerobically digested. Sewage solids (sludge) separated from
the wastewater are dewatered with a press and transported to the Simi Valley
Landfill in Simi Valley, California.
2.1.6. The flow equalization basin is used to temporarily store effluent from the primary
tanks when influent flows exceed 7.5 MGD. The wastewater stored at the flow
equalization basin is pumped to the aeration tanks for treatment when influent flows
fall below 7.5 MGD. Two lagoons are used to temporarily store wastewater from the
secondary clarifiers when the secondary clarifiers are under maintenance.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Simi Valley WQCP discharges tertiary-treated municipal wastewater to Arroyo Simi.
Tertiary-treated effluent is discharged from the plant to surface waters at the following
discharge points:
Discharge Point 001: Discharge to Arroyo Simi (approximate coordinates: Latitude
34.28200º, Longitude -118.81290º).
Discharge Point 002

===PLANNED CHANGES===

