[Page 133]
North City Water Reclamation Plant (NCWRP)
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the NCWRP consist of bar screens,
grit removal, chemically enhanced primary sedimentation, flow equalization,
aeration/secondary clarification using a 4-stage Bardenpho process for enhanced nutrient
removal, coagulation followed by deep-bed anthracite filtration, and chlorination for flows
directed to non-potable use (primarily irrigation).
The NCWRP produces tertiary recycled water that complies with the requirements of title 22,
division 4, chapter 3 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR, Title 22 Regulations). The
existing NCWRP has a design capacity of 32 MGD, and the upgraded NCWRP will have a
design capacity of 56.7 MGD.
Up to 42.5 MGD of undisinfected tertiary recycled water will be conveyed from the NCWRP to
the NCPWF. The remaining tertiary recycled water will be used for non-potable purposes
(primarily landscape irrigation) in accordance with Order No. R9-2015-0091, Master Recycling
Permit for the City of San Diego North City Water Reclamation Plant, San Diego Co

[Page 133]
North City Pure Water Facility (NCPWF)
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the NCPWF will consist of ozone
disinfection, biological activated carbon, membrane filtration using Toray ultrafiltration
membranes, 3-stage reverse osmosis (RO) treatment, ultraviolet light/advanced oxidation
(UV/AOP) using sodium hypochlorite as an oxidant, product-water conditioning using lime and
carbon dioxide injection, and chlorination to maintain a free chlorine residual in the Miramar
Reservoir conveyance pipeline. Advanced treated recycled water from the NCPWF will be
conveyed via the North City Pure Water Pipeline to the North City Pure Water Dechlorination
Facility (shown in Attachment B, Figure B-4) for dechlorination prior to discharge into Miramar
Reservoir.
Approximately 5.91 MGD of RO brine from the NCPWF will be discharged to a brine line
which will convey the brine to the City’s sanitary sewer system. Once in the sanitary sewer
system, RO brine will be transported to the E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment
Plant (Point Loma WWTP) for treatment and discharge to the Pacific Ocean through the Point
Lo

[Page 134]
Waters of the United States and any reissuance.
North City Pure Water Dechlorination Facility
The conveyance pipeline will deliver advanced treated recycled water to the North City Pure
Water Dechlorination Facility located immediately south of the Miramar Reservoir dam, at the
north end of Meanley Drive near the entrance of the Miramar DWTP. The North City Pure
Water Dechlorination Facility will achieve dechlorination by injecting sodium bisulfite into the
conveyance pipeline. The rate of sodium bisulfite injection will be controlled to reduce chlorine
residual to non-detectable concentrations.
Miramar Drinking Water Treatment Plant (Miramar DWTP)
Operations at the Facility will be ramped up in stages to ensure that the treatment processes
and reliability features operate as designed and comply with applicable requirements
established by the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of
Drinking Water (DDW).
Miramar Reservoir is a drinking water storage reservoir with a capacity of 6,682 acre-feet.
The water in the reservoir is withdrawn, blended with imported water, and treated at the
Miramar Drinking Water

[Page 134]
Water Purification Demonstration Facility (WPDF)
The Discharger constructed a 1 MGD Water Purification Demonstration Facility (WPDF) at
the Facility site to test treatment processes utilized at the full scale NCPWF. Treatment
processes utilized at the WPDF include ozone disinfection, biological activated carbon,
microfiltration, RO, ultraviolet disinfection/advanced oxidation processes. Analyses results
from effluent samples collected from the WPDF from 2011 to 2012 and 2016 to 2017 were
included in the Discharger’s ROWD.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The NCPWF will discharge advanced treated recycled water to Miramar Reservoir at
Discharge Point No. 001 (Latitude 32.9156°: Longitude -117.0947°). Advanced treated
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SH

===PLANNED CHANGES===

