[Page 94]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Ojai Valley WWTP is a tertiary wastewater treatment plant with a dry weather
design capacity of 3.0 MGD and an instantaneous peak flow capacity of 9.0 MGD.
The facility serves an estimated population of 24,000 people and receives
wastewater from the City of Ojai, the unincorporated communities of Meiners Oaks,
Mira Monte, Oak View, Casitas Springs, Foster Park, and North Ventura Avenue
area. Untreated wastewater is collected from these areas through approximately 120
miles of sanitary sewer lines. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial
wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR part 403.
2.1.2. Treatment at the Ojai Valley WWTP consists of preliminary treatment (grinders,
bar screening and grit removal), secondary treatment (activated sludge biological
treatment), secondary clarification, tertiary filtration, disinfection with ultraviolet light
during normal operation, and reaeration prior to discharge. As a backup, the Facility
uses chlorination to disinfect the effluent.
2.1.3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment.
a. Influent grinding: Solids such as paper and rags are ground prior to entering the
treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the mechanical parts of
the treatment chain.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 12/21/2023 F-4
[Page 95]
OJAI VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2023-0430
OJAI VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO.CA0053961
b. Grit removal and screening: Grit consists of a wide assortment of inorganic
solids such as pebbles, sand, silt, eggshells, glass, and metal fragments. Grit is
removed by settling, and rags and plastics by screening. This material is
collected and disposed of in a landfill.
c. Oxidation ditches and anaerobic tank: This biological nutrient removal system
consists of two oxidation ditches and one anaerobic tank. Wastewater flows from
the headworks to the anaerobic tank, to the anoxic zone of the oxidation ditches,
then to the aerobic zone of the oxidation ditches. The aerobic zone provides
oxygen for living microorganisms that break down and consume the organic
material in wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with microorganisms in the
oxidation ditch creates a mixed liquor. The anoxic zone of the oxidation ditch
denitrifies the waste stream and the anaerobic/aerobic zones remove
phosphorus biologically using microorganisms that consume organic matter in
the wastewater, which reduces nitrates to nitrogen gas and incorporates
phosphorus into microbial cells.
d. Final clarification in secondary clarifiers: In this stage, solids (sludge) are
separated from the effluent and the sludge blanket is thickened.
e. Equalization Basins: These basins allow for adjustments of flow to the filters
throughout the day and during storm events.
f. Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce suspended
or colloidal matter from a liquid stream by passing the water through a bed of
granular material such as the sand used at the Ojai Valley WWTP. Filters remove
the solids that the secondary sedimentation process does not remove, thereby
improving the disinfection efficiency and reliability.
g. UV disinfection: UV light disinfects by penetrating microorganisms and
destroying their DNA. This method is effective at inactivating both bacteria and
viruses without producing a chlorine residual or the accompanying disinfection
byproducts. UV spans wavelengths from 2,000-3,900 angstroms. The most
effective band for disinfection is in the shorter range of 2000-3000 angstroms.
The UV light wavelengths verified in the UV system specifications for the Facility
are 2,337 to 2,737 angstroms (or 233.7 to 27,307 nm) at 90% of output.
h. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite is used to disinfect the effluent produced at
the Ojai Valley WWTP as a backup to the UV system during storm events or
during normal process interruptions. The sodium hypochlorite treats the effluent
by destroying bacteria, pathogens, and viruses. This process also helps minimize
algal growth. Seasonal water temperature variations resulting in changes in the
upstream biology conditions occasionally require the use of sodium hypochlorite
to disinfect the effluent temporarily due to increased coliform levels. In addition,
the sodium hypochlorite system is briefly put into operation a couple times per
year, not because it is needed for disinfection, but to verify operational readiness
of the chemical feed chlorination/dechlorination equipment and control systems.
The sodium hypochlorite system was used during storm related high flow events
to aid in disinfection if needed (depending on coliform levels) and when
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 12/21/2023 F-5
[Page 96]
OJAI VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2023-0430
OJAI VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO.CA0053961
necessary to perform maintenance on the UV system, which is rare due to
having redundant UV banks.
i. Dechlorination: Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated
effluent to remove residual chlorine.
j. Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal at the
Toland Landfill located at Santa Paula, California. Sludge from secondary
clarifiers is pumped either to the oxidation ditches (return activated sludge), or
directly to the belt press for dewatering (waste activated sludge). The belt press
dewaters waste activated sludge typically to 14 percent solids, which is then
composted in the sludge drying beds. The Permittee treats the dried sludge using
wind-row composting on-site during dry weather and hauls sludge to the Liberty
Compost Facility Synagro at Lost Hills, California, during wet weather.
2.1.4. On September 12, 2022, the Discharger began constructing a biological nutrient
removal system with full nitrification and denitrification to achieve compliance with
the final effluent limitations for total nitrogen. The system is planned to be in
operation in June 2025.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Ojai Valley WWTP discharges tertiary-treated wastewater to the Ventura River, a
water of the United States, at Discharge Point 001 approximately 4.5 miles upstream
the Ventura River Estuary (Estuary). For much of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Several physical alterations to the Facility associated with the nitrification/denitrification
(NDN) process are proposed by the Permittee as summarized in Table F-4 below.
Construction started on the NDN process on September 12, 2023, and it is scheduled
for completion on March 1, 2024.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 12/21/2023 F-11
[Page 102]
OJAI VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2023-0430
OJAI VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO.CA0053961
Table F-4. Summary of Capital Improvement Projects
Project Name Project Summary
1. Two new Parkson Denitrification filters are 98% complete.
2. Two micro “C” carbon holding tanks have been installed along with a
chemical feed pump system, which has been used to deliver carbon to
the oxidation ditches and to facilitate denitrification in the new and
Construction of retrofitted denitrification filters. The chemical feed system 95% complete.
NDN Process 3. The backwash pump station for the two new denitrification filters to send
filter backwash water back to the head of the plant is 100% complete.
4. Another process upgrade (not started yet) to optimize denitrification
includes the replacement of the aerators in the four existing oxidation
ditches to include adjustable frequency drives.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California
Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant