[Page 78]
1.
The Facility has an average dry weather flow design capacity of 2.5million gallons per day
(mgd), and a peak wet weather capacity of 5.0 mgd.
2.
Treatment Process. The treatment plant has two segregated wastewater treatment process
streams. Process Train 1 is used for treating the higher total dissolved solids (TDS)
wastewater from the City's commercial and industrial North Basin, and Process Train 2 is
used for treating approximately 860/o of the total flow (based on flow data from 2002-
2005), which is primarily low in TDS domestic wastewater. The Facility operators have the
flexibility of combining the two treated streams prior to or after the treatment processes.
The treatment process consists of an emergency overflow basin (5 million gallons [MG]),
screening (trvo self-cleaning inclined cylindrical screens), grit removal (one vortex-type
grit removal chamber for Main Basin flow only), biological treatment using nitrifying
aeration tanks with an anoxic zone for denitrification along with immersed membranes for
solids separation (4 rectangular basins), ultraviolet (JV) disinfection for all flow
discharged to the wetlands, and sodium hypochlorite and a chlorine contact tank for
disinfection of recycled water for irrigation. Secondary treatment is accomplished with an
activated sludge treatment system and immersed microfiltration membranes for solids
separation. A cascade aeration outlet structure is used to elevate dissolved oxygen levels in
effluent discharged to the wetlands. Facility influent is measured through two magnetic
flow meters prior to the headworks.
Plant effluent flow is diverted either directly to the irrigation distribution system or to the
outfall pipeline to the North Slough or constructed wetlands discharge point. Plant effluent
flow discharged to the North Slough (M-001), to the constructed wetlands (M-003), and to
irrigation (M-002) is measured separately.
3.
Reclamation. The tertiary treated wastewater from the lower TDS water (Main Basin) will
be recycled and used for agricultural and landscape irrigation. Initially, the recycled
wastewater will be used for irrigation of vineyards at various locations primarily to the
north and east of the Facility. Development in American Canyon may increase the potential
for recycling. Possible uses include landscape irrigation at parks, schools and other
common irrigation areas; toilet flushing; and dust control at construction sites. The
Discharger has prepared a Recycled Water Master Plan and intends to maximize the use of
reclaimed water. In February 1999,the Discharger completed a Recycled Water Master
Plan. The Discharger has made certain necessary Facility modifications and improvements
in preparation of the implementation of the water recycling program. In July 2005,the
Discharger received approval from the Regional Water Board and the California
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 79]
City of American Canyon
Wastewater Treatrnent Facility
Order No. R2-2006-0036
NPDES No. CA0038768
Department of Health Services to deliver the recycled water to users. During the 2005
recycled water season, about LUo/o of the wastewater treatment plant effluent was recycled.
The Discharger's reclamation activities are governed by the Regional Water Board's
general reclamation permit Order No. 96-011.
4. Eftluent Monitoring. The effluent compliance monitoring point is at the discharge from the
UV disinfection channel (M-001) for effluent released to North Slough, at M-003 for
effluent discharged to the constructed wetlands, or at the discharge of the chlorine contact
chamber effluent (M-002) for the recycled water. The IJV disinfected effluent (001-S)
flows to the North Slough or to the constructed wetlands (003-R). The chlorinated final
effluent (002-R) flows to the wet well of the Reclaimed Water (RW) pump station. During
peak irrigation demands, the effluent will be pumped from the wet well to the recycled
water distribution system. During periods when irrigation demands are less than the flow
through Process Train 2, arry effluent from microfiltration in excess of the RW pump
station demands will be diverted (prior to the chlorine contact tank) to the UV facilities.
This will ensure that all disinfected effluent to the North Slough or constructed wetlands
contains zero chlorine residual. In the event of excess flow reaching the RW pump station,
an overflow weir will divert that excess water to the emergency storage basin. The IfV
system has been sized to accommodate the total Facility flow during winter periods to
provide the required disinfection. A standbybank of UV equipment is included in the
disinfection facilities to ensure reliability. Only water delivered to the recycled water
irrigation system will be chlorinated. A 1.0 MG recycled water reservoir was constructed
to meet peak irrigation demands. A chlorine residual will be maintained at the discharge
from the chlorine contact tank to ensure that a chlorine residual is maintained in the
recycled water distribution system.
The effluent discharged to North Slough (001-S) may be a combination of Process Trains 1
and 2 at any given time. The actual percentage of this blend varies daily based on Facility
effluent flow and irrigation demands. The previous Orders specified that the effluent
discharged to the constructed wetlands shall be the Main Basin low TDS effluent only;
however, the Facility does not have the ability to UV disinfect two streams of effluent for
discharge. Monitoring of the constructed wetlands shows the salinity in the wetlands has
been below 1.0 parts per thousand (ppt) for all but one monitoring event; therefore, the
water in the constructed wetlands can be classified as freshwater. In addition, on-going
monitoring of the constructed wetlands for vegetation and aquatic life also suggest the
healthy condition of the wetlands. Therefore, this Order allows the Discharger to discharge
combined effluent to the constructed wetlands all year round. This Order specifies that
M-001 and M-003 shall be monitored continuously for flow.
5. Wet Weather Flow Handling. The Facility has a wet weather treatment capacity of 5.0 mgd,
and additional facilities for handling peak wet weather flows. These facilities include a 5
million gallon (MG) capacity earthen basin to store wastewater during instantaneous peak
periods gteater than the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

