[Page 20]
Attachment C includes monitoring that can be implemented to verify compliance
with effluent limits.
c. Pathogens and other microorganisms are present in domestic wastewater.
Wastewater treatment processes will reduce the concentration of pathogens but
disinfection is required to significantly reduce their presence. Coliform bacteria
are used as a surrogate (indicator) because they are excreted by warm-blooded
animals, are present in high numbers, survive in the environment similar to
September 23, 2014
[Page 21]
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - 11 -
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
pathogenic bacteria, and are easy to detect and quantify. Disinfection of
wastewater is not required in every situation, such as when the wastewater
application is performed in such a way that public contact is minimized through
physical controls and/or notification.
When needed, disinfection can be performed in a number of ways. The title 22
water recycling criteria lists disinfection requirements for specific activities. To
ensure the disinfection is effective, the model MRP provided as Information
Sheet Attachment C includes monitoring that can be implemented to verify
compliance with effluent limits.
30. Compliance with the General Order, the NOA, DDW requirements, and any mitigation
measures will ensure compliance with the applicable Basin Plan.
TITLE 27 EXEMPTION
31. The wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal activities described

[Page 22]
Wastewater collection, treatment, storage, and Section 20090 (a) Sewage,
disposal systems. domestic wastewater, and
treated effluent
Applying wastewater to evaporation ponds, Section 20090 (b) Wastewater
storage ponds, percolation ponds, rapid infiltration discharges to land
basins, leach fields, seepage pits, land application
areas, spray fields, etc.
Disposal of wastewater in injection wells or Section 20090 (c)
seepage pits. Underground injection
Application of treated wastewater containing Section 20090 (f) Soil
suspended solids to a land application area. amendments, nonhazardous
decomposable waste
Wastewater collection, flow equalization, and Section 20090 (i) Waste
treatment in a septic tank, Imhoff tank, sand/media treatment in fully enclosed
filter, package treatment tank, aeration basin, facilities.
clarifier, sludge holding/thickening tank, pumping
sumps, lined sludge drying beds, etc.
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
32. This General Order is intended to cover both new and existing Small Domestic
Systems.
a. The adoption of this General Order for existing Small Domestic Systems is
categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301 (ongoing or
existing projects), section 15

===PLANNED CHANGES===

