[Page 161]
2. Facility Description
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant
The J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant is located at 34156 Del Obispo
Street, Dana Point, California and provides wastewater treatment to a population
of approximately 120,000 residents8 within the service area/boundaries of the
City of San Juan Capistrano, SCWD, and SMWD. During times of off-peak
influent flows, the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant also receives dry-
weather runoff flows. The J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant also may
receive flows diverted from the Oso Creek WRP when the Oso Creek WRP is not
producing recycled water.
As shown in the process schematic in Attachment C, the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant provides secondary treatment through parallel 4-
MGD and 9-MGD treatment trains. The 4-MGD treatment train handles
wastewater flow from the Dana Point Interceptor. The 9-MGD treatment train
handles wastewater flows conveyed via the Oso Creek and San Juan Creek
Interceptors. Wastewater treatment processes for both treatment trains include
screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, and secondary treatment
with activated sludge aeration and secondary sedimentation.
Solids processing at the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant includes
thickening (secondary sludge), anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering.
Grit and screenings from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant are
hauled to a sanitary landfill, and dewatered biosolids from the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant are hauled to either a sanitary landfill or a
contractor-operated compost site.
Secondary-treated wastewater from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment
Plant is discharged directly to the SJCOO under this Order. From February 2019
to January 2020, the reported average influent daily flow to the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant was 6.49 MGD and the average effluent daily flow
from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant to the SJCOO was 6.49 MGD.
2.1.2. Santa Ma

[Page 162]
The Chiquita WRP provides secondary-treatment with the following wastewater
treatment unit operations and processes: screening, grit removal, primary
clarification (9.0-MGD capacity), and a combination of (1) high-rate trickling
filtration and recirculation (6.0-MGD capacity) and (2) activated sludge aeration
and secondary clarification (6.0-MGD capacity). The 2020 Chiquita WRP
inspection report states that SMWD was in the process of installing another
secondary clarifier (at the time, the design was done and out for bid). SMWD also
planned to add new aeration basins. The projected operational date of the new
basins was by the end of June 2021 and will increase the aeration basin from 6
MGD to 9 MGD. A portion of the secondary-treated wastewater receives tertiary
treatment through chemical addition/flash mixing, tertiary filtration, and
chlorination disinfection.
The San Diego Water Board’s Order No. 97-52, Waste Discharge and Recycling
Requirements for the South Orange County Wastewater Authority, Orange
County, establishes recycled water requirements for the reuse of tertiary-treated
wastewater from the Chiquita WRP in the San Diego Region.
Waste activated sludge from the Chiquita WRP is thickened, digested, and
dewatered, using belt filter press. Approximately 40 percent of dewatered
biosolids from the Chiquita WRP are directed to the Prima Deshecha landfill,
while the remaining biosolids are trucked to contract composting operations.
Screenings removed from the wastewater in the preliminary treatment process
are sent to a Class 1 sanitary landfill in Simi Valley.
Under this Order, secondary-treated wastewater not recycled at the Chiquita
WRP is discharged to the Chiquita Land Outfall, which then discharges to the
SJCOO. From February 2019 to January 2020, the reported average influent
daily flow to the Chiquita WRP was 5.51 MGD and the average effluent daily flow
from the Chiquita WRP to the SJCOO was 1.90 MGD.
2.1.3. Santa Margarita Water

===PLANNED CHANGES===

