[Page 50]
1. Location and Service Area. The plant is located at 614 East 5th Street, Benicia, and provides
secondary treatment of wastewater from domestic, commercial, and industrial sources within
the City of Benicia. The service area population is approximately 28,000.
2. Collection System. The collection system consists of 23 lift stations and 150 miles of pipelines.
3. Wastewater Treatment. Wastewater treatment consists of screening, grinding, grit removal,
primary clarification, biological secondary treatment, and disinfection. Secondary treatment
consists of two parallel treatment trains. Up to 8 MGD of primary-treated wastewater is directed
to aeration basins and secondary clarifiers. Primary-treated wastewater over 8 MGD is directed
to three parallel trains of rotating biological contactors, followed by secondary clarifiers. All
secondary-treated effluent is combined in the chlorine mixing chamber and disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge.
The Discharger plans to decommission two of its three rotating biological contactor trains. The
remaining rotating biological contactor train will remain available for future use if needed to
treat average daily flows above 8 MGD; it can treat about 3 MGD when necessary. The highest
daily average flow since January 1, 2008, was 7.18 MGD. Based on data from 2008 through
2012, the Discharger anticipates only a 0.02 percent chance of exceeding this flow in any
particular year. As a result of extensive collection system infiltration and inflow improvements
completed in 2005, and ongoing maintenance and improvements, the Discharger no longer
needs to blend primary-treated and secondary-treated effluent during wet weather.
The plant can store up to one million gallons in seven flow equalization and “industrial” waste
holding basins, where influent can be diverted and temporarily stored during peak flows or
upsets and subsequently returned to the plant for treatment. The basins associated with the
decommissioned rotating biological contactors will also remain available for flow equalization
during extreme wet weather flows. The Discharger also completed a wrap-around pipeline that
allows the plant to pump effluent from the final effluent pump station to the holding basins. This
allows the plant to better control effluent quality by rerouting effluent of suspect quality to the
holding basins until treatment problems can be identified and corrected.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Secondary solids (i.e., waste activated sludge) are
thickened by dissolved air flotation. The solids are then anaerobically digested and subsequently
dewatered by a belt filter press. Stabilized, dewatered biosolids are hauled away for offsite
disposal to the Hay Road Landfill.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 51]
City of Benicia ORDER No. R2-2014-0023
City of Benicia Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0038091
5. Stormwater Discharge. All stormwater captured within the wastewater treatment plant storm
drain system is directed to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, the plant is exempt
from coverage under the statewide Industrial Storm Water Permit (NPDES General Permit
No. CAS000001).
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Water
Treated, dechlorinated wastewater is discharged to Carquinez Strait, a water of the United States,
through Discharge Point No. 001, at latitude 38.041667 degrees north and longitude -122.150833
degrees west. Carquinez Strait is located between San Pablo Bay and Suisun Bay, within the Suisun
Basin watershed.
The outfall consists of a 1,100-foot long pipeline and a 147-foot long diffuser. The diffuser is
located approximately 500 feet offshore, approximately 10 feet below mean lower low water. The
diffuser is 33 inches in diameter and has 50 ports spaced 3 feet apart. Each port consists of an 8-foot
long riser with a 3-inch diameter series 35D tideflex check valve at the end. Two buoys are attached
to each port to maintain a vertical alignment. Based on an inspection and repairs conducted in 2007,
the diffuser is buried to a depth of about 8 feet. The top of the check valves are about 1 foot above
the mudline.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Dat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to decommission two of its three rotating biological contactor trains, which
became unnecessary for routine operations in 2000 when they were replaced by a 4.5 MGD
activated sludge secondary treatment system. Necessary repairs to the rotating biological
contactors would involve replacing the media, shafts, antiquated aeration blowers, and other
components at considerable expense; therefore, the Discharger plans to decommission the two
older rotating biological contactor trains. The remaining rotating biological contactor train will
remain available if needed to treat average daily flows above 8 MGD. The basins associated with
the decommissioned rotating biological contactors would also be available for flow equalization
during extreme wet weather flows.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 53]
City of Benicia ORDER No. R2-2014-0023
City of Benicia Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0038091
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described below:
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Cod