[Page 63]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
614 East 5th Street in the City of Benica, Solano County. It provides secondary
treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the City of
Benicia and serves a population of approximately 28,200. No significant
industrial users are located within the service area.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer System. The City of Benicia sanitary sewer system conveys
wastewater to the plant and is covered by this Order. The system consists of
23 lift stations and 153 miles of pipelines, including 148 miles of gravity main
and 5 miles of force main.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. Wastewater treatment consists of screening, grinding,
grit removal, primary clarification, biological secondary treatment, disinfection,
and dechlorination. The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 4.5 MGD
and a wet weather capacity of 11 MGD. From February 2020 through January
2024, the plant treated an average of 1.9 MGD and a maximum of 9.4 MGD.
Biological secondary treatment consists of aeration basins and secondary
clarifiers in two parallel treatment trains with a combined capacity of 8.0 MGD.
Primary-treated wastewater over 8.0 MGD is directed to one rotating biological
contactor followed by secondary clarifiers, or to flow equalization. The rotating
biological contactor train can treat about 3.0 MGD. All secondary-treated
effluent is combined in the chlorine mixing chamber and disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge.
During peak flows or upsets, the plant can store up to one million gallons of
influent, primary effluent, or final effluent in seven flow equalization and storage
basins, called multi-purpose storage basins, for later treatment. The basins
(previously used for two decommissioned rotating biological contactor trains)
provide an additional 0.46 million gallons of flow equalization capacity. A wrap-
around pipeline allows the plant to pump effluent from the final effluent pump
station to the holding basins. When necessary, this allows the Discharger to
reroute effluent that may violate permit effluent limitations to the holding basins
until treatment problems can be corrected.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens secondary
solids (i.e., waste activated sludge) by dissolved air flotation. The solids are
then anaerobically digested and subsequently dewatered by a belt filter press.
Stabilized dewatered biosolids are hauled for offsite disposal. Currently, they
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 64]
City of Benicia Order R2-2025-0001
City of Benicia Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0038091
are converted to a Class EQ liquid bio-fertilizer and land applied at various
agricultural sites.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger does not currently have a recycled
water program. In 2017, the Discharger evaluated the feasibility of producing
and delivering approximately 2.0 MGD (approximately 2,000 acre-feet per year)
of recycled water to the nearby Valero Refinery for use as cooling tower
makeup water, and to other customers for non-potable uses. In 2020, the
Discharger completed a citywide Wastewater Master Plan Update and Major
Facility Condition Assessment. Both water reuse projects were evaluated. The
2020 and 2017 evaluations found both projects to be technically feasible;
however, neither project has advanced, primarily due to funding challenges.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The plant discharges treated wastewater to Carquinez Strait, a water of the State
and United States, through Discharge Point 001. Carquinez Strait is located
between San Pablo Bay and Suisun Bay, within the Suisun Basin watershed.
Discharge Point 001 consists of a 1,100-foot-long pipeline and a 147-foot-long
submerged diffuser. The diffuser is located approximately 500 feet offshore,
approximately 10 feet below mean lower low water. The diffuser is 33 inches in
diameter and has 50 ports spaced 3 feet apart. Each port consists of an 8-foot-
long riser with a 3-inch-diameter Tideflex series 35D duckbill check valve at the
end. Two buoys are attached to each port to maintain a vertical alignment. During
an inspection conducted in 2007, the diffuser was found to be buried to a depth of
about 8 feet. The Discharger last cleaned and repaired the diffuser in 2018.
2.3. Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data
The table below p

===PLANNED CHANGES===

