[Page 1]
The Facility’s existing wastewater system was permitted in 2001 by Marin County
Environmental Health Services and went into service in 2004. In early 2017, the Facility
began renovations oriented towards conversion from primarily office activities to
overnight guest and meeting accommodations. In connection with these renovations,
various upgrades in plumbing, water, and wastewater infrastructure were made to
incorporate water conserving fixtures, dual plumbing and water recycling facilities
(disinfected tertiary) for toilet/urinal flushing and landscape irrigation in selected areas.
The treatment system has a design capacity of 8,700 gallons per day (gpd). The original
wastewater system includes septic tanks for primary treatment, an intermittent (single
pass) sand filter for secondary treatment, and dual (200-percent capacity) pressure
distribution leachfields for subsurface dispersal of treated wastewater with a rated
capacity of 8,700 gpd.
The new water recycling facility is intended to augment the existing Facility wastewater
system, while retaining the existing wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
components and capacity. A new diversion pump system will route secondary-treated
water from the existing effluent transmission line (that runs to the summer leachfield) to
a new buried water recycling facility feed tank. Water level sensors in the water
recycling feed tank will control the on/off function of the diversion pump at the sand filter
effluent lift station. A redundant mechanical shutoff float valve on the inlet to the water
recycling facility feed tank will isolate the tank from additional inflow from the summer
leachfield transmission line when the tank is filled to its maximum capacity.
The water recycling facility consists of a filtration unit (automatic back-flushing cloth
media screen filter, Amiad Model AMF 36K), an ozonation unit (Delozone Genesis CD-
15), and storage tanks for batch chlorination to disinfect. Influent wastewater flow to the
water recycling facility will be controlled (on demand) through an inline filter feed pump
(booster pump) at the inlet to the filtration unit. The filter feed pump, in automatic mode,
will cycle on/off based on operating signals from continuous turbidity sensors and other
process equipment and sensors. Shut-off of the filter feed pump would suspend th

[Page 2]
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
of water through the water recycling facility treatment process and trigger an alarm. A
manually controlled by-pass line upstream of the filter feed pump will be setup to allow
water from the water recycling facility feed tank to be returned (by gravity) to the
wastewater collection system, if necessary, for maintenance or any other reason.
B. Subsurface Discharge Description
Domestic wastewater flows generated from overnight lodging, offices and day guests,
the kitchen area, and a fitness center receive primary and secondary treatment via
septic tanks and an intermittent (single pass) sand filter. Secondary-treated effluent is
collected and normally pumped to one of dual (200-percent capacity) pressure
distribution leachfields for final subsurface dispersal.
An independent diversion pump system will be installed in the lift station pump chamber
to divert a portion of the sand filter effluent into the recycled water processing stream.
The diversion of treated water for recycling shall have no impact on the operation of the
existing wastewater treatment and dispersal facilities, other than to reduce the overall
amount of water discharged to the leachfields when water is being recycled. Recycled
water that is inadequately treated shall drain back to the wastewater collection system
for re-processing through the sand filter treatment system and leachfield discharge or
additional recycled water treatment, as applicable.
The quantity of wastewater generated at Big Rock Ranch is estimated to be 8,460 gpd
when the Facility is at capacity. The wastewater quality is consistent with the
characterization of wastewater in the General Order.
C. Recycled Water Use
Recycled water will be produced and used onsite for two purposes, delivered through
separate no

[Page 2]
C. Recycled Water Use
Recycled water will be produced and used onsite for two purposes, delivered through
separate non-potable water distribution systems: (1) toilet/urinal flushing (Main Office
Building and Fitness Center only); and (2) irrigation of onsite landscaping in specific
dedicated areas of the site. Big Rock Ranch currently uses well water for both the
potable (domestic) supply and non-potable (irrigation) water uses. The recycled water
will be sufficient to supply a portion, but not all, of the demand for toilet/urinal flushing
and irrigation. Provisions will be included to supplement the non-potable toilet/urinal
flushing system with water from the existing potable supply, employing approved air gap
(AG) backflow prevention. Supplemental water for the recycled water irrigation system
will be provided from the existing non-potable irrigation supply, using an approved
reduced pressure principle (RP) backflow prevention device.
D. Filtration and Disinfection
Following secondary treatment, influent to the water recycling facility will be filtered to a
filtration goal of <10 microns in order to remove access solids that could potentially
inhibit the subsequent ozonation and batch chlorination disinfection process. This will be
accomplished by means of an automatic back-flushing cloth media screen filter (Amiad
Model AMF 36K). Continuous inline flux pressure measurements within the filter
automatically backflush the filter when the flux pressure exceeds the equipment
recommendations. Backflush water will be supplied from the non-potable recycled
Page 3 of 13
[Page 3]
Big Rock Ranch February 14, 2022
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
irrigation pressure tanks by means of an a

[Page 3]
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
irrigation pressure tanks by means of an automatic valve integrated into the filter. During
the backflushing process, influent to the filter will be automatically shut off, so backflush
water can be supplied against zero back pressure. The flush water will be directed back
into the wastewater collection system.
Continuous turbidity monitoring will be provided on the influent and filtrate sides of the
filtration unit with an inline turbidimeter to comply with California Code of Regulations
Title 22 (22 CCR) turbidity limits for disinfected tertiary recycled water referenced in
section III.C. of this Notice.
Following filtration and ozonation (to remove color and odor, and for aesthetic
purposes), treated water will be collected in a pair of identical 15,000-gallon recycled
water storage tanks that will be operated in an alternative batch mode for batch chlorine
disinfection. Upon receipt of Title 22-compliant total coliform test results (and a CT of
450 mg-min/L), a batch pump (one for each tank) can be activated in order to transfer
treated water to the recycled water distribution pump basin that serves the non-potable
water distribution systems for both the building and the irrigation system. Recycled
water that is inadequately treated shall drain back to the wastewater collection system
for reprocessing through the sand filter treatment system and leachfield discharge or
additional recycled water treatment, as applicable.
II. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA)
The County of Marin, as the Lead Agency, has determined that the proposed project is
an existing facility that is categorically exempt from CEQA pursuant to 14 CCR
section 15301 (ongoing or existing projects). See Marin County Planning Commission
Resolution No. PC16-003. The Water Boar

===PLANNED CHANGES===

