[Page 1]
EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
Kelly Strong (hereafter “Discharger”) owns and operates the Bill & Kathy’s, Inc. WWTF located
approximately 0.2 miles south of the town of Dunnigan in Section 21, Township 12 North,
Range 1 West, MDB&M in Yolo County. Surface water drainage is to Dunnigan Creek to the north
and drains to the Colusa Basin Drainage Canal to the east. The site location is shown on
Attachment A, which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The WWTF is located in an area without a regional wastewater collection system; therefore,
wastewater is collected and treated on-site. The service area serves a rural and transient
population. The WWTF provides domestic wastewater treatment services to three areas as shown
on Attachment A. Currently, wastewater is received from two fueling-stations (located at the
southwest and southeast corner of the intersection of County Road 6 and 89) and a mini-mart
(located at the northeast corner of the intersection of County Road 6 and 89). Domestic
wastewater can also be received from an out-of-business restaurant located in the southwest
corner of the intersection of County Road 6 and 89. Discharges of wastewater from recreational
vehicles (motor homes) was originally accepted into the WWTF, however the Discharger no longer
accepts this waste. Potable water is supplied by onsite private wells located within the three
service areas.
The wastewater collection system consists of approximately 1/3 of a mile of pipeline, including
gravity pipelines and a force main, and a lift station that was constructed sometime in or before
1976. The WWTF consists of two, clay-lined treatment ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) and an overflow
basin as shown on Attachment A. Ponds 1 and 2 can receive wastewater from the lift station. Pipe
connections and valves allow flow between Ponds 1 and 2 and from Pond 2 to the overflow basin
when water levels are high. Estimated pond depths and volumes are shown in the table below.
Pond Name Depth 1 (feet) Volume 2 (mgal)
Pond 1 8.7 0.46
Pond 2 8.4 0.71
Overflow Basin 1.3 0.41
Total: 1.57
1 Approximate depth from the lowest elevation to the top of pond.
2 Volume at 2-feet of freeboard from the lowest elevation to the top of pond.
The Discharger does not monitor flows into the ponds. Current wastewater flow was estimated to
be 1,100 gallons per day (gpd) based on a flow rate of 430 gpd for fueling (gas) stations and
100 gpd per 1,000 square feet of retail space. The water balance submitted along with the RWD
demonstrates adequate pond capacity under current domestic wastewater disposal conditions for a
100-year return period and average precipitation; however, the ponds and emergency basin have
capacity for higher wastewater flows.
There are no groundwater wells to monitor underlying groundwater quality near the ponds. Depth
to shallow groundwater in the Dunnigan area ranges between approximately 15 to 25 feet below
ground surface. Residual solids are removed from the ponds as needed, and disposed of at
permitted landfill.
[Page 2]
Kelly Strong - 3 - 10 April 2017
Bill & Kathy’s, Inc. Wastewater Treatment Facility
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITS
Note that the General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
treatment systems as well as those that only apply to specific treatment and/or disposal systems.
The specific requirements and effluent limits for your treatme

[Page 3]
3. By 1 October 2017, the Discharger shall submit a Sanitary Sewer System and
Wastewater Treatment Facility Evaluation Report. The sanitary sewer system consists of
any sewer pipe, manholes, lift station, and/or other conveyance system elements that
direct raw sewage to the treatment facility. The report shall describe the routine
maintenance program, control measures, and/or management practices taken to
adequately maintain, operate, and prevent overflows from its sanitary sewer system and
confirm the integrity of the system. The report shall summarize the most recent sewer
system inspection, evaluation, and/or repairs performed over the last 10 years. The report
shall also include information regarding pond and emergency basin construction such as
but not limited to as-builts or construction completion reports, that certifies that the ponds
and emergency basin were constructed as designed.
a. If an inspection or evaluation of the sewer system has not occurred in the last
10 years, the Discharger shall conduct a sewer system inspection of the system. By
1 December 2017, the Discharger shall submit a Sanitary Sewer System Inspection
Report that describes the inspection, evaluates the system, and certifies any repairs
made.
4. Within 90 days prior to any removal, drying, treatment, or disposal of sludge for pond
maintenance, the Discharger shall submit and implement a Sludge Management Plan
consist with the requirements of General Order Provision E.1.c.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
The Discharger shall comply with MRP 2014-0153-DWQ-R5221, which is attached hereto and
made part of this NOA by reference.
ENFORCEMENT
Please review this NOA carefully to ensure that it completely and accurately reflects t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

