[Page 54]
3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process at the Plant consists of screening
(two bar screens), grit removal (vortex-type grit remover), primary sedimentation (two
primary clarifiers), biological treatment (four aeration basins), secondary clarification (four
secondary clarifiers), and chlorine disinfection using sodium hypochlorite. Treated
wastewater is discharged to the NBSU forcemain, which transports treated wastewater to the
South San Francisco and San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant for dechlorination using
sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to Lower San Francisco Bay from Discharge Point
No. 002. These steps are shown in the process flow diagram in Attachment C. The Plant has
an average daily treatment capacity of up to 5.5 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak
wet weather capacity of 16 MGD. From July 2013 through November 2017, the Plant treated
a daily average of 3 MGD.
During wet weather, primary effluent flows in excess of 13.5 MGD (maximum biological
treatment capacity) are directed to onsite temporary storage units, which include an offline
primary clarifier (0.4 million gallons [MG]), a stormwater retention basin (1.6 MG), and an
offline aeration basin (0.3 MG). When the storage units reach their maximum capacity,
primary effluent flows in excess of 13.5 MGD bypass biological treatment and are blended
with effluent receiving biological treatment. The blended effluent is disinfected and
discharged to the NBSU forcemain. Such bypasses may be necessary at times to prevent
washout of microbial populations in the biological treatment units. Prior to the installation of
the stormwater retention basin in September 2011, the Discharger blended nine times from
2005 through 2011. The Discharger has not blended since the installation of the stormwater
retention basin. Bypasses of biological treatment are subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C
and Attachment D section I.G (see Fact Sheet § IV.A.3).
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge with a gravity
thickener and waste activated sludge with a gravity belt thickener. All thickened sludge is
then treated by anaerobic digestion and dewatered by a belt filter press or centrifuge.
Dewatered sludge is trucked to either composting sites, land application sites, or landfills for
disposal.
5. Stormwater Management. Most stormwater captured within the Plant’s storm drain system
is directed to the headworks. For the storm drains that do not drain to the headworks, the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 55]
City of Burlingame and NBSU Order No. R2-2018-0024
City of Burlingame Wastewater Treatment Facility NPDES No. CA0037788
Discharger is covered under the State Water Board’s statewide NPDES permit for
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities (NPDES General Permit
CAS000001).
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Treated effluent flow

===PLANNED CHANGES===

