[Page 55]
2. Collection System. The City of San Jose and the City of Santa Clara individually own and
operate their respective collection systems. The City of San Jose sanitary sewer system
consists of approximately 2,040 miles of sewer pipes, including 12 miles of force main and
16 pump stations. The collected wastewater is conveyed to the plant by interceptor pipelines
located in northern San Jose.
The City of Santa Clara sanitary sewer system consists of approximately 270 miles of sewer
mains and two large pump stations, each with a flow meter, and four smaller un-metered lift
stations. The system includes two force mains (totaling 4 miles), 26 siphons, and an
additional main line meter station to measure flow at the Guadalupe outfall to the conveyance
pipe to the plant.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides preliminary treatment, primary treatment,
biological treatment, filtration, and disinfection:
a. Preliminary Treatment. Preliminary treatment consists of influent screens followed by
grit removal. An iron salts dosing station doses ferric chloride at the Emergency Basin
Overflow Structure for odor control.
b. Primary Treatment. Following preliminary treatment, wastewater is pumped into
rectangular primary clarifiers to remove floatable and settleable material.
c. Biological Treatment. All wastewater receives biological treatment. A modified
biological nutrient removal (BNR) process is employed that is designed to remove BOD
and ammonia (NH ) in the same aeration basins. Each basin is divided into four sections
3
referred to as “quads.” The first and third quads are operated under anoxic conditions,
while the second and fourth quads are operated under aerobic conditions. This
configuration achieves effective filament control and allows for some denitrification.
Following biological treatment, wastewater is pumped to secondary clarifiers.
d. Filtration. Following the secondary clarifiers, the wastewater undergoes filtration. There
are 16 dual media filters, 4 of which are dedicated to producing Title 22 unrestricted-use
reclaimed water and 12 of which are used to produce water suitable for discharge to San
Francisco Bay. Filter backwash water is sent to a backwash equalization basin for
storage, followed by flocculation and sedimentation. The treated backwash water is
pumped to chlorine contact tanks for disinfection prior to discharge to San Francisco Bay.
The settled solids from the backwash water are pumped back to the primary treatment
system.
e. Disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are metered into the filter effluent at the
head of four serpentine chlorine contact channels to produce a solution of chloramines for
disinfection. As the effluent leaves the contact channels, its chlorine residual is measured,
and an appropriate amount of sodium bisulfite is added to neutralize the hypochlorite.
The effluent diverted for recycled water use is not neutralized with sodium bisulfite.
Following dechlorination, the fully treated effluent flows by gravity under Los Esteros Road
and daylights through two effluent discharge pipes into an approximately half mile long
effluent channel. The channel provides additional stabilization of the treated effluent, backup
aeration if low dissolved oxygen levels are detected, and a backup dechlorination system in
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 56]
City of San Jose, City of Santa Clara Order No. R2-2020-0001
San Jose-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility and Collection Systems NPDES No. CA0037842
case upstream meters indicate there is remaining residual chlorine. The final effluent flows
over a weir structure at the downstream end of the outfall channel, where the final
measurements for chlorine, pH, and dissolved oxygen are taken before discharge.
The plant has an average dry weather design capacity of 167 million gallons per day (MGD).
Annual average effluent flows in 2017 and 2018 were approximately 91 MGD and 88 MGD,
with daily maximum flows of approximately 187 MGD and 122 MGD.
An 8-million-gallon emergency basin is available for temporary storage prior to the plant
headworks, along with an additional 16 million gallons of storage after the primary clarifiers.
A 10-million-gallon overflow basin is available for any overflows from the 16-million-gallon
equalization basin. The plant is designed to route biologically treated effluent in excess of the
filtration design capacity (250 MGD) around the filters during extreme wet weather flow
events and to recombine these flows with filter effluent prior to disinfection. Such operations
are not considered bypasses subject to Discharge Prohibition III.B of the Order.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digesters. The process consists of dissolved air
flotation (DAF) thickening, anaerobic digestion, lagoon stabilization, and dewatering using
sludge drying beds. Once dried, the biosolids are trucked to a landfill for use as alternative
daily cover.
5. Reclamation. The Discharger provides an average of approximately 15 MGD of treated
wastewater for non-potable purposes to customers throughout the service area via the South
Bay Water Recycling Program. Uses include irrigation of golf courses, parks and
playgrounds, farms, and industrial uses. Recycled water is also available for construction use
at remote locations. Approximately 0.10 MGD of treated wastewater is used onsite for
landscape irrigation. Regional Water Board Order No. R2-1995-0117 sets forth water
recycling requirements for the South Bay Water Recycling Program.
A portion of the recycled water delivered by the South Bay Water Recycling Program is
produced directly off of the tertiary filters and chlorine contact tanks, and a portion is
produced by the Silicon Valley Advanced Water Purification Center, which the City of San
Jose and the Santa Clara Valley Water District own jointly. The Santa Clara Valley Water
District has been operating the Center since March 2015. When at full capacity, the Center is
capable of treating up to 10 MGD of the Facility’s secondary clarifier effluent using
microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and ultraviolent light to produce approximately 8 MGD of
high-quality recycled water. The backwash waste stream from the microfiltration process is
routed back to the plant headworks. The reject waste stream from the reverse osmosis units is
routed back to the plant’s disinfection units, where it is blended with the Facility’s effluent
prior to discharge.
6. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
headworks for treatment; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are necessary.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Facility discharges to Artesian Slough via a discharge channel, where it mixes with Coyote
Creek and then San Francisco Bay, all of which are waters of the United States. The discharge
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 57]
City of San Jose, City of Santa Clara Order No. R2-

===PLANNED CHANGES===

