[Page 53]
1. Location and Service Area. The Discharger was formed under a Joint Powers Agreement in
1979 and is comprised of six member agencies: Almonte Sanitary District, Alto Sanitary
District, Homestead Valley Sanitary District, City of Mill Valley, Richardson Bay Sanitary
District, and Tamalpais Community Services District. The Discharger owns and operates the
treatment plant and its associated wastewater collection and conveyance system. The
treatment plant, located within the City of Mill Valley, provides secondary treatment of
domestic wastewater for its six member agencies. The service area population is
approximately 29,000. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility.
2. Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates sewer pipelines that collect and
convey wastewater from the member agencies’ satellite collection systems to the treatment
plant. The Discharger’s conveyance system consists of approximately 3.5 miles of force
mains, 5.5 miles of gravity lines, and six pump stations. Under agreement with the City of
Mill Valley, the Discharger operates two lift stations within the Mill Valley service area
(i.e., the Frontage Road Lift Station and Shelter Bay Lift Station). Each satellite collection
system is owned and operated independently from the Discharger and collects wastewater
from its respective service area. These collection systems, and the Discharger’s wastewater
collection and conveyance system, are covered under the statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 54]
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order No. R2-2018-0039
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037711
3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant has a dry weather design capacity of 3.6
million gallons per day (MGD) and can treat up to 24.7 MGD during wet weather (based on
equalized flow capacity of the treatment plant) when the influent concentration of organic
matter is lower. From May 1, 2014, through April 30, 2017, the average daily flow was
2.92 MGD and the maximum daily flow was 16.57 MGD. The wastewater treatment process
consists of screening, grit removal, flow equalization, primary sedimentation, biological
treatment (trickling filters), secondary clarification, disinfection (chlorination), gravity
thickening, and solids digestion and dewatering. Chlorine contact is accomplished in the
effluent force main, which is approximately 6.5 miles long, and dechlorination is
accomplished by sodium bisulfite addition at Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County
(Tiburon) prior to discharge. Attachment C of this Order contains a treatment process
schematic diagram.
During wet weather, when primary-treated flows exceed the plant’s biological treatment
capacity of 24.7 MGD and all onsite storage is used, the effluent from the primary clarifiers
may bypass the trickling filters and secondary clarifiers and mix with biologically-treated
effluent before disinfection and discharge. The tank holding primary effluent (the
recirculation wet well) and tank holding biologically-treated effluent (the effluent wet well)
lay side-by-side. The wall that separates the two has ports running its length at a height of
13.0 feet. When the water level in the recirculation wet well rises above the 13.0 feet,
primary effluent flows into the effluent wet well and blending occurs. Blending prevents a
washout of microbial populations in that system and prevents sewer backups. Blending is
subject to Discharge Prohibition III.B, Attachment D section I.G (see Fact Sheet section
IV.A.2), and Provision VI.C.5.a.
The Discharger has an emergency outfall at the north equalization basin. During extreme
peak flow conditions, when influent flow exceeds 24.7 MGD for an extended time, the
equalization basins can overflow into Richardson Bay. Such discharge is not authorized by
this Order and is subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C. The emergency outfall was last used
in January 2008.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Solids removed from the wastewater stream are treated
by gravity thickening, primary and secondary digestion, and dewatering by belt filter press.
During the winter months, dewatered biosolids are sent to the Redwood Sanitary Landfill in
Novato, where they are composted with yard waste and used for daily cover. During warmer
months, dewatered solids may be land-applied by Synagro West at a reuse site located on
Lakeville Highway in Sonoma County. The Discharger currently generates and reclaims
about 267 dry tons of biosolids per year.
5. Stormwater Management. The wastewater treatment plant headworks receives drainage
from the area in front of the solids handling units (i.e., belt filter press, grit and screening,
chemical feed room) and the area surrounding the dump station for septic haulers. The
remaining storm drains at the treatment plant are not connected to the headworks. The
Discharger is covered under the State Water Board’s statewide industrial stormwater NPDES
permit (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) for stormwater runoff from areas that do
not drain to the headworks.
6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger reclaims wastewater under Regional Water
Board Order No. 96-011. Reclaimed water reuse is intermittent with an average of
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 55]
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order No. R2-2018-0039
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037711
approximately 0.038 MGD provided for landscape irrigation (7 MG/year during the typical

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger began construction of plant rehabilitations in October 2017. The Discharger
intends to implement the upgrades in phases. During summer 2018, half of the plant will be
taken out of service. Influent flows will undergo full treatment while upgrades and repairs are
conducted on the portion taken out of service. During summer 2019, the remaining half of
the plant will be rehabilitated, while the newly rehabilitated portion of treatment facilities
will be used to provide treatment. Major rehabilitation is planned for most of the treatment
plant components, including headworks, primary and secondary clarifiers, trickling filters,
recirculation and effluent pump station, sodium hypochlorite tank, digester, and electrical
systems. The project is expected to be completed by March 2020.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with § 13260) for discharges to land and/or waters of the State. This Order is also
issued pursuant to Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and imp