[Page 40]
1. Location and Service Area. The Plant is located on Canyon Lake Drive in Port Costa. It
provides secondary treatment of wastewater from domestic and, to a lesser extent,
commercial sources within the Port Costa community. There are no industrial dischargers in
the service area. The service area population is approximately 250.
2. Collection System. The collection system consists of about 1.5 miles of terra-cotta pipe, and
the Discharger maintains it with the assistance of contractors.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant has a dry weather design treatment capacity of
33,000 gallons per day (0.033 MGD). Wastewater from the Port Costa community is
conveyed by gravity to an 86,000-gallon capacity, baffled septic tank where primary
sedimentation occurs. From the septic tank, the primary-treated wastewater flows by gravity
to a wet well, where it mixes with circulating wastewater from sand/gravel filter beds at a
ratio of approximately four or five parts of filtered wastewater to one-part primary-treated
septic tank effluent. After mixing, the wastewater is pumped to a dosing structure, which
distributes the wastewater to the sand/gravel filter beds. From the sand/gravel filter beds, a
portion of the filtered wastewater is routed back to the wet well (upgradient of the sand/gravel
filter beds) to mix with primary-treated septic tank effluent. The remaining filtered
wastewater flows over a V-notch weir into a contact chamber, where it is chlorinated and then
dechlorinated with sodium metabisulfite.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 41]
Crockett Community Services District Order No. R2-2018-0053
Port Costa Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037885
In the last five years between December 2013 and February 2018, the average daily flow was
0.015 MGD, with a maximum daily flow of 0.216 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Settled sludge in the septic tank is removed
approximately every five years and hauled to an offsite septage tank receiving station for
treatment and disposal (e.g., at the Central Contra Costa Sanitary District wastewater
treatment plant in Martinez or the East Bay Municipal Utility District (EBMUD) wastewater
treatment plant in Oakland). During the past five years, the Discharger pumped and shipped
34,046 gallons of settled sludge for disposal at EBMUD. The septic tank was last pumped in
November 2017.
5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the Plant and pump stations is collected and
directed to the Plant’s headworks for treatment; therefore, no stormwater discharge
requirements are necessary.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Treated, dechlorinated wastewater is discharged to Carquinez Strait, a water of the United States,
through a submerged outfall (Discharge Point No. 001). Carquinez Strait is located between San
Pablo Bay and Suisun Bay within the Suisun Basin watershed. The outfall is located approximately
60 feet offshore, at a depth of about 17.5 feet below mean lower low water at latitude 38.04861º
North and longitude -122.18222º

===PLANNED CHANGES===

