[Page 62]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The Facility is located at 700 Los Esteros Road,
San Jose, and provides advanced-secondary treatment of wastewater from
domestic, commercial, and industrial sources. Ownership of the Facility by the
City of San Jose and City of Santa Clara was established under the original
Joint Powers Agreement. Through a series of additional “Master Agreements
for Wastewater Treatment,” five additional satellite collection systems obtained
rights to a share of the treatment capacity to treat their sewage: the City of
Milpitas, Burbank Sanitation District, Cupertino Sanitation District, West Valley
Sanitation District, and Santa Clara County Sanitation Districts No. 2 and No. 3.
(A sixth satellite collection system, Sunol Sanitation District, was annexed by
the City of San Jose in 2010 and no longer exists.) The Facility serves a
population of approximately 1.4 million.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer Systems. The City of San Jose and the City of Santa Clara
individually own and operate their respective sanitary sewer collection systems.
The City of San Jose sanitary sewer system consists of approximately
2,042 miles of sewer pipes, including 10 miles of force main and 16 pump
stations. The collected wastewater is conveyed to the treatment plant by
interceptor pipelines located in northern San Jose.
The City of Santa Clara sanitary sewer system consists of approximately
270 miles of sewer mains and two large pump stations, each with a flow meter
and four smaller un-metered lift stations. The system includes two force mains
(totaling 4 miles), 26 siphons, and an additional main line meter station to
measure flow at the Guadalupe outfall to the conveyance pipe to the treatment
plant.
The Facility also serves five additional satellite collection syste

[Page 63]
Order. Each satellite collection system is owned, operated, and maintained
independently and is responsible for ongoing maintenance and capital
improvements to ensure adequate capacity and reliability.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant provides treatment consisting of
influent screening and grit removal, primary clarification, advanced secondary
treatment with an activated sludge process configured and operated for
biological nutrient removal (BNR), secondary clarifiers, mono-media gravity
filtration, and disinfection with chlorine (sodium hypochlorite), and
dechlorination (sodium bisulfite).
Treated effluent is discharged to Artesian Slough, a tributary of Coyote Creek.
The Facility has an average dry weather design capacity of 167 million gallons
per day (MGD). Annual average effluent flows in 2022 and 2023 were
approximately 71 MGD and 93 MGD, with daily maximum flows of
approximately 120 MGD and 177 MGD. A 12-million-gallon, concrete-lined
emergency basin is available for temporary storage prior to the plant
headworks, along with an additional 16 million gallons of storage used for daily
flow equalization after the primary clarifiers.
A 10-million-gallon overflow basin is also available for any overflows from the
16-million-gallon equalization basin. The treatment plant is designed to route
fully treated secondary effluent in excess of the filtration design capacity around
the filters (250 MGD) during extreme wet weather flow events and to recombine
it with filter effluent prior to disinfection.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
2.1.3.1. Preliminary Treatment. Preliminary treatment consists of screens followed
by grit removal. An iron salts dosing station doses ferric chloride at the
Emergency Basin Overflow Structure for odor control.
2.1.3.2. Primary Treatment. Following preliminary treatment, wastewater is pumped
into rectangular primary clarifiers to remove floatable and settleable material.
2.1.3.3. Biological Treatment. All wastewater receives biological treatment as part
of the advanced secondary treatment process. A modified biological nutrient
removal (BNR) process is employed that is designed to remove BOD and
ammonia (NH ) in the same aeration basins. Each basin is divided into four
3
sections referred to as “quads.” The first and third quads are operated under
anoxic conditions, while the second and fourth quads are operated under
aerobic/anaerobic conditions. This configuration achieves effective filament
control and partial denitrification. Following biological treatment, the
wastewater flows by gravity to secondary clarifiers.
2.1.3.4. Filtration Process. Following the secondary clarifiers, the wastewater
undergoes filtration. There are 16 separate mono media filters, 4 of which are
dedicated to producing Title 22 unrestricted-use non-potable recycled water
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 64]
City of San José and City of Santa Clara Order R2-2025-0027
San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037842
and 12 of which produce water suitable for discharge to San Francisco Bay.
Up to 8 of the 16 filters can be used to produce Title 2

[Page 64]
Up to 8 of the 16 filters can be used to produce Title 22 unrestricted-use non-
potable recycled water. The Discharger backwashes the filters to clean the
media. Each filter is backwashed approximately once every 24 hours. Filter
backwash water is sent to a backwash equalization basin for storage,
followed by flocculation and sedimentation. The treated backwash water is
pumped to chlorine contact tanks for disinfection prior to discharge to San
Francisco Bay. The settled solids from the backwash water are pumped back
to primary treatment.
2.1.3.5. Disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are metered into the filter
effluent at the head of four serpentine chlorine contact channels to produce a
solution of chloramines for disinfection. As the effluent leaves the contact
channels, its chlorine residual is measured, and an appropriate amount of
sodium bisulfite is added to neutralize the hypochlorite. The portion of the
effluent diverted for recycled water use is not neutralized with sodium
bisulfite.
2.1.3.6. Outfall Channel. Following dechlorination, the fully treated effluent flows by
gravity under Los Esteros Road and daylights through two effluent discharge
pipes into an approximately half mile long effluent channel. The channel
provides additional stabilization of the treated effluent, backup aeration if low
dissolved oxygen levels are detected, and a backup dechlorination system in
case upstream meters indicate there is remaining residual chlorine. The final
effluent flows over a weir at the downstream end of the outfall channel where
final measurements for chlorine, pH, and dissolved oxygen are taken before
discharge to Artesian Slough, Coyote Creek, and South San Francisco Bay.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from primary and secondary
clarification operations is processed using Temperature Phased Anaerobic
Digestion (TPAD) with thermophilic and mesophilic anaerobic digesters that are
operated in series. The process consists of primary sludge screening, dissolved
air flotation (DAF) thickening of primary and secondary sludges, and TPAD.
Digested sludge then undergoes either lagoon stabilization and dewatering
using open air drying beds or mechanical dewatering using centrifuges (once
the new biosolids dewatering facility is complete). Dewatered biosolids are used
as alternative daily cover at a landfill, land applied as a soil amendment, or
processed further into a compost or fertilizer.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater from within the treatment plant’s
boundaries is directed to the plant headworks; therefore, permit coverage for
stormwater discharges is not required.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger provides a dry-season average of
approximately 16 MGD of treated wastewater for non-potable reuse in San
Jose, Santa Clara, and Milpitas through the South Bay Water Recycling
Program. Uses include irrigation of golf courses, parks and playgrounds, farms,
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6
[Page

[Page 65]
In 2011, the City of San Jose, in collaboration with Valley Water, began
construction of the Silicon Valley Advanced Water Purification Center, which
has been operational since March 2015. When operating at full capacity, it is
capable of treating up to 10 MGD of the Facility’s secondary effluent using
microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and ultraviolent light disinfection, producing
approximately 8 MGD of high-quality recycled water. The backwash waste
stream from the microfiltration process is routed back to the plant headworks.
The reject waste stream from the reverse osmosis units is routed back to the
disinfection units, where it is blended with the treatment plant’s effluent prior to
discharge.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Facility discharges to Artesian Slough via a discharge channel, where it mixes
with Coyote Creek and then South San Francisco Bay, all of which are waters of
the United States. The discharge appears to enhance beneficial uses of the
receiving waters as documented in the

[Page 67]
Facility reliability.
2.5.1. Digester Upgrade. This project will renew the mesophilic digester tanks and
the mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation and control equipment
associated with them, as well as replacing the existing floating covers with fixed
covers. In addition to the mesophilic digester upgrades, the project will
construct a new fats, oil and grease receiving facility, including storage tanks
and connections to existing facilities.
2.5.2. Digested Sludge Dewatering Facility. This project will build a new digested
sludge dewatering facility, including a new building, centrifuges, conveyors,
truck bays, and polymer storage and dosing equipment is underway. Ancillary
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-9
[Page 68]
City of San José and City of Santa Clara Order R2-2025-0027
San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037842
facilities include digested sludge pump stations and pipelines from digesters to
a storage tank, digested sludge pump station and pipeline from the storage tank
to the dewatering building, and a centrate return pump station and pipeline. The
Sludge Dewatering Facility will eventually replace the lagoon and solar drying
biosolids processing.
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The treatment plant is located within the 100-year coastal floodplain with a Base
Flood Elevation of 12-ft NAVD88 surrounding the main facilities and 11-ft NAVD88
within the treatment facilities located within the boundary of Los Esteros Road and
Zanker Road.
The Discharger developed a model to assess the vulnerability of various areas
and treatment secti

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects during this permit term.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability.
2.5.1. Digester Upgrade. This project will renew the mesophilic digester tanks and
the mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation and control equipment
associated with them, as well as replacing the existing floating covers with fixed
covers. In addition to the mesophilic digester upgrades, the project will
construct a new fats, oil and grease receiving facility, including storage tanks
and connections to existing facilities.
2.5.2. Digested Sludge Dewatering Facility. This project will build a new digested
sludge dewatering facility, including a new building, centrifuges, conveyors,
truck bays, and polymer storage and dosing equipment is underway. Ancillary
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-9
[Page 68]
City of San José and City of Santa Clara Order R2-2025-0027
San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037842
facilities include digested sludge pump stations and pipelines from digesters to
a storage tank, digested sludge pump station and pipeline from the storage tank
to the dewatering building, and a centrate return pump station and pipeline. The
Sludge Dewatering Facility will eventually replace the lagoon and solar drying
biosolids processing.
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The treatment plant is located within the 100-year coastal floodplain with a Base
Flood Elevation of 12-ft NAVD88 surrounding the main facilities and 11-ft NAVD88
within the treatment facilities located within the boundary of Los Esteros Road and
Zanker Road.
The Discharger developed a model to assess the vulnerability of various areas
and treatment secti