[Page 49]
1. Location and Service Area. The treatment plant is located at 700 Coast Highway in
Pacifica. It provides advanced-secondary treatment of domestic and commercial wastewater
from the City of Pacifica. The Facility currently serves a population of approximately 39,000.
Attachment B shows the area around the Facility.
2. Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates approximately 100 miles of sewer
lines and five pump stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant can provide advanced-secondary treatment for
an average daily dry weather design flow of 4.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak
wet weather discharge capacity of 20 MGD to Calera Creek. In 2016, the average daily dry
weather flow was 1.9 MGD. From October 2013 through September 2016, influent flows
exceeded the peak wet weather discharge capacity once (see Fact Sheet section II.D.1).
Treatment consists of influent screening, grit removal, sequencing batch reactors for
secondary treatment and nutrient removal, sand filters, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection.
4. Biosolids Management. Biosolids generated during the treatment process are stored in waste
activated sludge storage tanks, which are aerated prior to thickening with gravity belt thickeners.
Thickened solids are digested in autothermophilic aerobic digesters, dewatered with centrifuges,
and then hauled offsite for landfill disposal, land application, and composting.
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State
Water Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial
activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the treatment plant
and pump stations is collected and directed to the headworks for treatment.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 50]
City of Pacifica Order No. R2-2017-0013
Calera Creek Water Recycling Plant NPDES No. CA0038776
6. Facility Upgrades. To augment the Facility as described above, the Discharger is implementing
improvements to comply with Cease and Desist Order No. R2-2011-0031 (as amended) to
reduce and eliminate sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs). The Discharger is currently planning to
construct a 2.1-million-gallon wet weather equalization basin approximately two miles upstream
of the headworks to provide additional capacity in the sewer system.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Plant effluent is discharged over a cascade aerator to Calera Creek at Discharge Point No. 001 and
flows approximately 0.52 miles through constructed wetlands to the Pacific Ocean. The discharge
elevation at the cascade aerator is approximately 2 to 3 feet above the surface water elevation of
Calera Creek based on a 100-year storm.
Calera Creek is located within the San Mateo Coastal watershed. It is freshwater at the point of
discharge and transitions to brackish and saltwater before flowing to the Pacific Ocean. The
discharge to the Calera Creek is

===PLANNED CHANGES===

