[Page 62]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant is located at 700 Coast
Highway in Pacifica. It provides advanced secondary treatment of domestic and
commercial wastewater from the City of Pacifica. The population within the
service area is approximately 40,000 people. Attachment B shows the area
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-3
[Page 63]
City of Pacifica Order R2-2022-0029
Calera Creek Water Recycling Plant NPDES PermitCA0038776
around the Facility. The Discharger owns and operates about 100 miles of
sewer lines and five pump stations.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The Facility provides advanced secondary treatment
as described below and as shown in the Process Flow Diagram in
Attachment C. The treatment process consists of screening, grit removal,
sequencing batch reactors, sand filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The
screening occurs at two of the Discharger’s pump stations.
The Discharger either diverts its effluent to its cascade aerator, where the
effluent discharges into Calera Creek and travels to the Discharger’s
constructed wetlands to the Pacific Ocean, or routes it to the North Coast
County Water District, where it receives additional disinfection and distribution
for recycled water use.
2.1.3. Wastewater Storage. In 2019, the Discharger built a 2.1 million gallon
equalization basin near its Linda Mar pump station. The Discharger completed
this project in accordance with Cease and Desist Order (CDO) R2-2011-0031,
as amended by CDO R2-2013-0005, to reduce sanitary sewer overflows
(SSOs).
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the sequencing batch
reactors is aerated and contained in waste activated sludge tanks before being
diverted to the gravity belt thickeners. Next, thickened solids are digested in
autothermal thermophilic aerobic digesters and dewatered with centrifuges. The
Discharger hires a contractor to pick up the sludge for land application,
composting, or landfill disposal.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger directs all onsite stormwater to the
plant headworks for treatment; therefore, coverage under the State Water
Board’s General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Dischargers Associated with
Industrial Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) is unnecessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger supplies tertiary treated effluent to the North
Coast County Water District. The District provides additional disinfection and
distributes the recycled water for golf course irrigation (east side of Sharp Park
Golf Course), athletic field irrigation (Fairway Park), school facility irrigation
(Oceana High School and Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School), roadway landscape
irrigation (Palmetto streetscape and Highway 1 median) and operation of a
residential filling station. The District uses about 50 percent of its allocated
s

[Page 63]
Utilities Commission to irrigate the west side of Sharp Park Golf Course, are
under evaluation.
2.1.7.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. By late fall of 2024, the Discharger plans to design and
construct a new UV disinfection system that will include two channels, replacing
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 64]
City of Pacifica Order R2-2022-0029
Calera Creek Water Recycling Plant NPDES PermitCA0038776
the existing one-channel system. During construction of this project, the
Discharger may use a temporary UV disinfection system or a temporary
chlorination and dechlorination disinfection system.
By June 30, 2027, the Discharger also anticipates completing a headworks
improvement project that will include replacing its grit removal system, replacing
the lining of the headworks influent channel, installing bar screens at the
treatment plant, and decommissioning the Discharger’s hypochlorite tank.
Other projects scheduled for the next permit term include upgrading the roof
covering the digester tanks and replacing the solar panels with more efficient
technology.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. Discharge of treated wastewater into
Calera Creek is via a cascade aerator at Discharge Point 001. From Calera Creek,
the effluent travels 0.52 miles within the Discharger’s constructed wetlands before
entering the Pacific Ocean. The discharge elevation at the cascade aerator is
approximately 2 to 3 feet above the surface water elevation of Calera Creek based
on a 100-year storm.
Calera Creek is located within the San Mateo Coastal watershed. It is freshwater
at the point of discharge and transitions to brackish and saltwater before flowing to
the Pacific Ocean. The discharge to Calera