[Page 56]
2. Collection System. The City of Sunnyvale’s collection system consists of approximately 312
miles of gravity sewer pipes ranging from 4 inches to 48 inches in diameter, 140 miles of
lower laterals, 2 miles of force mains, 4 lift stations, and 1 pump station.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides preliminary treatment, primary treatment,
biological treatment, filtration, and disinfection. Disinfected advanced-secondary-treated
effluent is discharged to Moffett Channel, a tributary of Guadalupe Slough and Lower South
San Francisco Bay. The plant’s average dry weather effluent flow design capacity is 29.5
million gallons per day (MGD), and its peak wet weather flow capacity is 40 MGD. Over the
past 5 years (December 1, 2014, to present), the plant’s highest daily dry weather discha

[Page 56]
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides preliminary treatment, primary treatment,
biological treatment, filtration, and disinfection. Disinfected advanced-secondary-treated
effluent is discharged to Moffett Channel, a tributary of Guadalupe Slough and Lower South
San Francisco Bay. The plant’s average dry weather effluent flow design capacity is 29.5
million gallons per day (MGD), and its peak wet weather flow capacity is 40 MGD. Over the
past 5 years (December 1, 2014, to present), the plant’s highest daily dry weather discharge
was 18.9 MGD (May 24, 2015), and the highest wet weather discharge was 28.4 MGD
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 57]
City of Sunnyvale Order No. R2-2020-0002
Sunnyvale Water Pollution Control Plant and Collection System NPDES NO. CA0037621
(December 11, 2014). Annual average effluent flows in 2017 and 2018 were approximately
12 MGD and 10 MGD.
a. Preliminary Treatment. Preliminary treatment consists of barrel grinders followed by
aerated grit removal.
b. Primary Treatment. Following preliminary treatment, wastewater is pumped into
rectangular primary sedimentation basins to remove floatable and settleable material.
c. Biological Treatment. All wastewater receives biological treatment through a three-step
process. Primary effluent is gravity-fed to 440 acres of mechanically aerated Oxidation
Ponds, where organic matter and ammonia are degraded by aerobic and anaerobic
bacteria. Nitrification and denitrification in the ponds are linked to ambient weather
conditions and experience seasonal variations. Treated pond effluent is pumped to Fixed
Growth Reactors (FGRs) (i.e., trickling filters) that provide additional nitrification of
ammonia. FGR effluent is conveyed to the Dissolved Air Flotation Tanks (DAFTs),
where compressed air and polymer are injected to coagulate, flocculate, and remove
biological solids (algae and bacteria) generated during treatment in the Oxidation Ponds
and FGRs.
d. Filtration. Following biological treatment, the wastewater undergoes filtration through
four parallel dual media filters, two of which may be used to produce recycled water. The
settled solids from the filter backwash water are pumped back to the oxidation ponds.
e. Disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite is metered into the filtered effluent at the beginning of
four serpentine chlorine contact tanks to generate a chlorine residual (generally
chloramines) for disinfection. Two of these channels may be used to produce recycled
water. As the effluent leaves the contact tanks, sodium bisulfite is added as needed to
neutralize the hypochlorite. Sodium bisulfite is added separately to the portion of the
effluent diverted for recycled water use before it is pumped into the recycled water
distribution system.
As described in Fact Sheet sections III.E.1 and III.E.2, treatment facility upgrades may be
installed pursuant to Provision VI.C.5.d of the Order.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger pumps sludge produced in the primary
sedimentation basins to primary anaerobic digesters. Generally, the Discharger operates
secondary digesters in series to stabilize and thicken the biosolids prior to dewatering, and to
generate biogas used to fuel the plant’s main influent pump engines and Power Generation
Facility. The Discharger pumps digested sludge (biosolids) to an equalization tank,
conditions the biosolids with polymer, and mechanically dewaters them using a belt filter
press to approximately 20 to 25 percent solids prior to land application or disposal at a
landfill. The Discharger may dispose of biosolids at an onsite biosolids monofill regulated as
a surface disposal site under Order No. R2–2004–0030. Secondary treatment solids removed
by dredging the oxidation ponds are chemically conditioned in an equalization tank and
dewatered using a centrifuge or belt filter press to approximately 20 to 25 percent solids prior
to land application or disposal at a landfill. The Discharger may divert a portion of the algae
“float” produced in the dissolved air flotation tanks to the primary digesters.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 58]
City of Sunnyvale Order No. R2-2020-0002
Sunnyvale Water Pollution Control Plant and Collection System NPDES NO. CA0037621
5. Reclamation. On average, the Discharger treats about 5 to 10 percent of the wastewater the
plant processes to meet Order No. 94–069 requirements for disinfected tertiary recycled
water. Recycled water production is a demand‐based s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The City Council approved a Master Plan in August 2016 authorizing a 30-year reconstruction
project known as the Sunnyvale Cleanwater Program. The program will serve as a long-term
guide for replacing the plant’s aging infrastructure. The following are descriptions of two key
projects in the Cleanwater Program. Implementation of these projects is not a requirement of this
Order, except to the extent that they pertain to increasing or ensuring treatment or wastewater
collection system reliability. However, the proposed upgrades described below may be
authorized in accordance with Provision VI.C.5.d of the Order. Otherwise, the Discharger must
seek necessary permits or permit modifications to implement any changes.
1. Primary Treatment Facilities. This project includes the phased design and construction of
new headworks, primary sedimentation tanks, an influent pump station, grit removal
facilities, and associated electrical, mechanical, and control systems. These upgrades would
be designed to enhance treatment and reliability. Along with a modernized sedimentation
tank design for enhanced solids removal, the new facilities would better protect downstream
processes and improve biosolids quality through use of influent bar screens and high
efficiency grit basins. In addition, a new 2-megawatt diesel generator would provide standby
emergency power in the event of a power outage. The new facilities would not alter the
current designed flow rates of 29.5 MGD average dry weather and 40 MGD peak wet
weather. The Discharger expects to commission these new facilities by the end of 2020.
2. Secondary Treatment Facilities. The Discharger proposes to replace the current biological
treatment facilities with an activated sludge system consisting of bioreactors and secondary
clarifiers configured as a Modified Ludzak-Ettinger (MLE) process to enhance nitrogen
removal. Construction of the new system is planned to occur in two stages. First, the
Discharger would construct two aeration basins, four secondary clarifiers, and associated
appurtenances. This activated sludge system would operate in parallel with the existing
biological treatment system (Oxidation Ponds, FGRs, DAFTs) under a split-flow regime.
Primary effluent would be apportioned using a weir structure, with approximately two-thirds
going to the new activated sludge system and the remaining one-third going to the existing
biological treatment system. The Discharger would blend effluent from the existing
biological treatment system with effluent from the new activated sludge system at a point
upstream of the disinfection and dechlorination system. The Discharger expects to
commission these new facilities by the end of 2025.
For the second stage, the Discharger proposes to complete the remaining portion of the
activated sludge system and phase out the existing biological treatment system; however,
operation of the Oxidation Ponds under a split-flow regime could continue, allowing the
Discharger to retain flexibility in managing its flow due to the large storage capacity of the
ponds. The new activated sludge system would generate more sludge, which the Discharger
proposes to treat with a new thickening and dewatering facility. This second stage of
upgrades is not expected to be completed within the term of this Order.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
[Page 61]
City of Sunnyvale Order No. R2-2020-0002
Sunnyvale Water Pollution Control Plant and Collection System NPDES NO. CA0037621
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code art