[Page 56]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant is located at 153 Lake
Merced Boulevard in Daly City. It provides secondary treatment of domestic
wastewater from the City of Daly City, portions of unincorporated San Mateo
County, the Town of Colma, the San Francisco County Jail, and the
Westborough Water District within the City of South San Francisco. The
combined service area population is about 132,000. The Discharger owns and
operates about 180 miles of sewer lines and nine pump stations.
The Discharger also maintains within its service area a separate collection
system that conveys approximately 0.6 MGD of flow to the Southeast Water
Pollution Control Plant (NPDES No. CA0037664) in San Francisco for treatment
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-3
[Page 57]
North San Mateo County Sanitation District Order R2-2022-0036
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037737
and disposal. This separate collection system is not part of the Facility
regulated through this Order.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The Facility provides secondary treatment as
described below and as shown in the Process Flow Diagram in Attachment C.
The treatment process consists of screening, compaction, primary clarification,
flow equalization, pure oxygen activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, chlorination by sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination by sodium
bisulfite. Influent plant flow is measured with a Parshall flume and then flows
through two microscreens, where it is dispersed evenly to six primary basins.
Two additional primary basins are brought into service when needed during wet
weather flows. The primary effluent is then split, with 70 percent pumped to two
pure oxygen activated sludge reactors, each with three turbine mixers. The
other 30 percent is stored in equalization basins until late evening, when it is
pumped back into the secondary system for treatment. Flows from the activated
sludge reactors are then routed to three secondary clarifiers, operated in
parallel, for settling. The effluent then flows over weirs into a chlorine contact
mixing chamber.
A portion of the effluent receives tertiary treatment for water reclamation
projects. The tertiary treatment system includes alum or polymer injection
followed by sand filtration, disinfection, gypsum injection, and a 1.4-million-
gallon storage basin. During the dry season, the tertiary treatment system
provides up to 2.77 MGD of recycled water for irrigation of golf courses, median
strips, and parks.
2.1.3. Pretreatment Program Exemption. The Discharger is exempt from
pretreatment requirements under 40 C.F.R. part 403. A pretreatment program
for the Facility was certified on June 17,

[Page 57]
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. During the wastewater treatment
process, the primary basins collect settleable solids in a sump, from which
solids are pumped to two gravity thickeners where ferrous chloride is added.
The thickened solids are removed and pumped to two anaerobic digesters.
Overflow from the gravity thickeners flows back to the headworks. Primary and
secondary scum is pumped to an air flotation tank along with the waste
activated sludge, and treated with a polymer. The thickened sludge is pumped
to an anaerobic digester, while the overflow goes into the primary effluent sump
and is pumped to the secondary system.
Digested solids are treated with polymer and centrifuged. The centrifuge
centrate flows into the headworks. Dried biosolids are pumped to a storage silo
and hauled offsite for disposal at either the Potrero Hills municipal landfill in
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 58]
North San Mateo County Sanitation District Order R2-2022-0036
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037737
Suisun City or for land application at one of several farms in Solano, Merced,
and Sacramento counties.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger directs all onsite stormwater to the
plant headworks for treatment; therefore, coverage under the State Water
Board’s General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Dischargers Associated with
Industrial Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) is unnecessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger has a tertiary treatment system which
produces recycled water in compliance with Title 22 disinfected tertiary via
flocculation, filtration through a Dina-sand filtration system, and disinfection.
The Discharger is permitted for up to 2.77 MGD which is distributed to four golf
courses, two parks, and various median strips along John Daly Boulevard and
Junipero Serra Boulevard.
2.1.7. Planned Upgrades. By summer 2023, the Discharger plans to rehabilitate and
upgrade the aeration basin with new hatches, mixers, blowers, conduits, and
non-clogging aerators. The five-year CIP also dedicates approximately
$1,000,000 annually to collection system improvements.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. Treated wastewater is conveyed
through the Vista Grande Tunnel structure and a 27-inch force main located at
Fort Funston in San Francisco County. The treated wastewater is di

[Page 59]
Most of these violations stem from events that took place in August 2019, when
the Discharger removed its primary digester from service for cleaning and
repairs. During this period, the smaller digester was overloaded, and the
increased solids loading harmed the microbial population in the digester. This,
in turn, significantly decreased the pH in the digester, inhibiting the bacteria that
breakdown the waste, and returned acidic waste to the headworks from the
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 60]
North San Mateo County Sanitation District Order R2-2022-0036
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037737
centrifuge dewatering. To compound the situation, an inspection revealed that
aeration basin diffusers were clogged with rags, limiting the ability of dissolved
oxygen to aerate the wastewater. The low dissolved oxygen caused detrimental
bacteria to become dominant in the aeration basin, which inhibited solids
settling. To reduce the population of these organisms, the Discharger treated
the return activated sludge with sodium hypochlorite and initiated more aeration
basin cleanings when it observed low dissolved oxygen levels. Although the
Discharger cleaned and reseeded its digester repeatedly, it was unsuccessful
until August 2020, nearly one year after removing it from service. The
Discharger was unable to consistently meet its CBOD and TSS effluent limits
until December 2020. To improve treatment reliability, the Discharger plans to
replace its aerators in 2023 (see Fact Sheet section 2.1.7).
The chlorine violation was unrelated to the others. In April 2021, the
Discharge

===PLANNED CHANGES===

