[Page 56]
1. Location and Service Area. The treatment plant is located at 1515 Soscol Ferry Road in
Napa. It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater
from the City of Napa and adjacent unincorporated Napa County. The Facility currently
serves a population of approximately 82,700. Attachment B shows the area around the
Facility.
2. Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates approximately 271 miles of sewer
lines and three pump stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant can provide secondary treatment for an average
daily dry weather design flow of 15.4 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet weather
discharge capacity of 23 MGD to the Napa River. From April 1, 2011, through January 31,
2015, the daily average and maximum flow rates from the treatment plant to the Napa River
were 11.3 and 20.6 MGD. During the wet season, October 1 through June 30, treatment
processes consist of headworks, primary clarification, secondary treatment through activated
sludge systems and/or oxidation pond system, secondary clarification, and disinfection.
Following primary clarification, a diversion structure splits the flow; up to 8 MGD can be
treated by the activated sludge system, which is followed by secondary clarification. The
remaining flow is directed to the oxidation pond system, which consists of four oxidation
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 57]
Napa Sanitation District Order No. R2-2016-0035
Soscol Water Recycling Facility and Collection System NPDES No. CA0037575
ponds covering 340 acres, followed by suspended solids removal in a dissolved air flotation
clarifier and flocculating clarifier. The oxidation ponds also serve as flow equalization ponds
during peak wet weather.
After secondary treatment, oxidation pond system effluent is commingled with activated
sludge effluent, chlorinated, and dechlorinated prior to discharge to the Napa River.
A portion of the dechlorinated effluent may be routed to an onsite treatment marsh that
provides equalization storage. The constructed treatment marsh is located west of the
treatment plant near the levee road next to the Napa River. As the water level in the
constructed treatment marsh becomes elevated due to rain or plant flows, treatment marsh
water is returned to oxidation pond 1. The oxidation ponds and constructed treatment marsh
are lined with Bay Mud, which has high compressibility and low permeability.
Attachment C provides treatment plant flow schematics.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary clarifiers and secondary
clarifiers is conveyed to an anaerobic digester. Sludge from the dissolved air flotation clarifier,
flocculation clarifier, and filter is conveyed to the oxidation ponds. Biosolids from the anaerobic
digester are sent to the sludge holding tank and gas holder, where the gas is used for gas
cogeneration, and then conveyed to the sludge belt press for dewatering. Solids are also
periodically removed from the oxidation ponds. Biosolids are either stored (onsite or offsite) or
applied to land (offsite).
The Discharger also accepts anaerobically-digestible material (e.g., waste food, fats, oil, and
grease) at its Fats, Oil, and Grease (FOG) Receiving Station for injection into its anaerobic
digester.
5. Reclamation. During the reclamation season (typically May through September), influent
wastewater is treated in the same manner as during the wet season; however, after secondary
treatment, oxidation pond system effluent is commingled with activated sludge effluent and then
sent for coagulation, filtration, and chlorination before reclamation. Flows not used for
reclamation remain in the oxidation ponds and constructed treatment marsh and do not undergo
clarification until the wet season begins and discharge to the Napa River is allowed. Reclaimed
water is used to irrigate landscaping, industrial parks, golf courses, pastures, feed and fodder
crops, a cemetery, Napa Valley College ball fields, a recreational park, and vineyards.
Reclamation is regulated under Regional Water Board Order No. 96-011 (General Water Reuse
Order).
6. Stormwater Management. The Disc

===PLANNED CHANGES===

