[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger produces up to 2.0 MGD of recycled water at the Facility, by directing and
treating a portion of the raw wastewater from the San Diego Metropolitan Sewerage System.
The raw wastewater is primarily residential and commercial collected from the City of Santee,
the City of El Cajon, and the unincorporated community of Lakeside. The remaining raw
wastewater continues through the San Diego Metropolitan Sewerage System, operated by
the City of San Diego Public Utilities Department, for treatment and disposal under separate
waste discharge requirements.1
The treatment process at the Facility consists of primary clarification, a five-stage Bardenpho
process, secondary clarification, alum and polymer addition, flocculation, sedimentation,
denitrification, chlorine disinfection, dechlorination, and lakes that serve to stabilize the quality
of the effluent discharge to Sycamore Creek by reducing the total nitrogen concentrations.
Approximately half of the tertiary effluent is sent to sites in the Santee and El Cajon hydrologic
subareas (HSAs) for use as irrigation water. The use of the tertiary effluent is regulated under
separate waste discharge requirements.2 Between January 2009 and December 2014,
1760.15 million gallons (MG) of tertiary effluent (48.45 percent of effluent produced) were
distributed to the Santee and El Cajon HSAs for use as irrigation water.
The remaining effluent is released into a series of holding ponds and lakes (Santee Lakes)
before being discharged to Sycamore Creek. The ponds and Santee Lakes are considered a
continuation of the treatment system and are not considered waters of the U.S. In a letter
dated September 6, 2005, the U.S. Corps of Engineers stated, “the manmade Padre Dam
1 Order No. R9-2009-0001, NPDES Permit No. CA0107409, Waste Discharge Requirements and National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit for the City of San Diego E.W. Blom Point Loma Metropolitan
Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean through the Point Loma Ocean Outfall, San Diego
County.
2 Order No. 97-49, Waste Discharge and Water Recycling Requirements for the Production and Purveyance of
Recycled water for Padre Dam Municipal Water District, San Diego County.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 74]
Padre Dam Municipal Water District ORDER R9-2015-0002 as amended by Order No. R9-2016-0099
RAY STOYER WATER RECYCLING FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107492
Municipal Water District Water Reclamation Facility ponds and Santee Lakes are part of a
waste treatment system designed to meet the requirements of the Clean Water Act and
therefore are not waters of the United States (33 CFR 328.3 (a)(8)).” 3 The lakes serve to
stabilize the quality of the effluent discharge to Sycamore Creek by reducing the total nitrogen
concentrations before discharging to Sycamore Creek.
The holding ponds consist of three ponds with a total volume of 38.0 MG, which flow in series
beginning with Pond A and ending with Pond C, which discharges to the Santee Lakes. The
Santee Lakes consist of seven lakes with a total volume of 131.5 MG, which flow in series
beginning with Lake No. 7 and ending with Lake No.1. Lake No. 1 ultimately discharges to
Sycamore Creek, a tributary to the San Diego River. Due to the variable demand for tertiary
effluent for use as irrigation water and due to evaporation from the ponds and lakes
(approximately 12 percent of total effluent for one year), flow from Lake No. 1 to Sycamore
Creek varies from less than 0.1 MGD to 2.1 MGD (approximately 35 percent of total effluent
for one year).
Between January 2009 and December 2014, 1872.98 MG of tertiary treated wastewater
(51.55 percent of tertiary treated wastewater produced) were distributed to the holding ponds
and the Santee Lakes. During the same time period, 1510.45 MG tertiary effluent (41.57
percent of effluent produced) were discharged to Sycamore Creek.
Biosolids and waste sludge from clarification are sent to the San Diego Metropolitan
Sewerage System for treatment and disposal.
The Discharger applies algaecide and herbicide to the Discharger’s ponds/lakes to control the
algae and weeds within the Discharger’s ponds/lakes. The primary application is typically in
the summer, when there is typically minimal to no discharge from Lakes Nos. 1 and 2 to
Sycamore Creek at Monitoring Location EFF-001B. The Discharger reports that the
monitoring results at Monitoring location EFF-001B have been non-detect for residual
algaecide and herbicide.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility. Attachment C p

===PLANNED CHANGES===

