[Page 100]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Escondido and the Rancho Bernardo
community of the City of San Diego and serves a population of approximately 200,000, including
residential, commercial, and industrial users (IUs). The design flow capacity of HARRF is 18 MGD
and the capacity to handle instantaneous flows is up to 36 MGD. The City of Escondido and the
City of San Diego own 12.7 MGD and 5.3 MGD of HARRF’s 18 MGD capacity, respectively. The
Discharger has implemented a program for more effective management of flows. This program
includes reducing influent flows through enhanced conservation efforts, identification and
reduction/elimination of sources of inflow and infiltration, year-round recycled water use, and
installation of additional flow equalization. The average annual influent flows to HARRF was
11.9 MGD in 2016.
The increased recycled water use includes the addition of the proposed MFRO Facility. HARRF
tertiary-treated recycled water will serve as the source of supply to the City’s proposed MFRO
Facility, which will be located at a 4.5-acre site at 1201 E. Washington Avenue in central
Escondido. The proposed MFRO Facility would be sized to produce 2 MGD of MFRO product
water, which depending on agricultural demands, would be blended with a quantity of HARRF
disinfected tertiary-treated recycled water to produce a final agricultural reuse supply that will
typically meet an agricultural supply chloride target criterion of 80 milligram per liter or less, when
practical.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 101]
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER R9-2018-0002
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107981
MEMBRANE FILTRATION/REVERSE OSMOSIS FACILITY
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Secondary treatment at HARRF is accomplished by mechanically cleaned bar screens and
aerated grit removal (cyclonic grit chambers), chemically-enhanced primary treatment
(CEPT), aeration basins equipped with membrane fine-bubble diffusers, and secondary
clarifiers. Up to 4 million gallons of flow equalization is available at HARRF using one 2-million
gallon concrete storage reservoir for secondary effluent equalization storage and one 2-
million gallon storage pond for secondary effluent and/or brine equalization storage. An
additional 1 million gallons of recycled water storage is available onsite and 2 million gallons
of storage is available off-site as part of the Discharger’s recycled water distribution system.
Secondary-treated wastewater is either discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the San Elijo
Ocean Outfall (SEOO), or receives tertiary treatment for reuse applications in the HARRF’s
service area.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal are collected on-site and trucked
to a local landfill. Sludge from primary sedimentation is anaerobically digested and dewatered
by centrifuge. Digested sludge from the primary digesters is directed to a secondary digester
for further stabilization. Waste activated sludge from the secondary clarifiers is thickened by
dissolved air flotation, anaerobically digested, and dewatered by centrifuge. Centrifuge
concentrate is directed back to the plant headworks and dewatered sludge is trucked to
Yuma, Arizona and land applied.
The 9 MGD tertiary treatment portion of HARRF is designed to comply with State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking Water (DDW) criteria for
“disinfected tertiary recycled water.” The tertiary treatment facility receives inflow from the
HARRF secondary effluent and/or from the secondary equalization basins. Tertiary treatment
at HARRF consists of chemical coagulation and flocculation, DynaSand® monomedia
continuous backwash upflow filtration, and disinfection using ultraviolet light and/or
chlorination.
Tertiary-treated wastewater is typically discharged to the Discharger’s recycled water
distribution system, which is covered under the San Diego Water Board Order No. R9-2010-
0032. Excess tertiary-treated wastewater may be dechlorinated and discharged to an onsite
pond. The onsite pond is tested for total chlorine residual prior to batch discharge to the
Pacific Ocean, along with secondary-treated wastewater. Under certain conditions, the
excess tertiary-treated wastewater may be dechlorinated and discharged to Escondido Creek.
The discharge of tertiary-treated wastewater to Escondido Creek is covered under a separate
NPDES permit (Order No. R9-2015-0026, NPDES Permit No. CA0108944).
As shown in the flow schematic in Attachment C, flow from HARRF to the SEOO is monitored
from the effluent pump station (continuous discharge) and from the onsite pond (batch
discharge). The two flow measurements are added together to obtain the total flow from
HARRF to the SEOO.
A portion of the tertiary-treated wastewater will supply the proposed MFRO Facility. HARRF
tertiary-treated wastewater will be conveyed to the MFRO Facility via an approximate 3-mile-
long, 24-inch-diameter MFRO feed pipeline that will extend from the existing City of
Escondido non-potable recycled water conveyance system to the MFRO Facility. Key
components of the MFRO Facility will include:
• A membrane filtration influent tank;
• A surge tank and supporting compressed air system to control pressure surges;
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 102]
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER R9-2018-0002
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107981
MEMBRANE FILTRATION/REVERSE OSMOSIS FACILITY
• A feed pump system to convey influent from the influent tank to the
microfiltration/ultrafiltration (MF/UF) system;
• A MF/UF membrane filtration system with associated chemical addition, backwash,
and chemical cleaning and membrane conditioning processes;
• An inter-process storage tank to equalize flows between the MF/UF and reverse
osmosis (RO) systems;
• RO transfer pumps and cartridge filters to convey MF/UF filtrate from the inter-process
storage tank to the RO feed pumps;
• A RO feed pump station;
• RO treatment trains with associated chemical addition, backwash, chemical cleaning,
and membrane conditioning processes;
• An RO flush system;
• A product water blending and storage tank; and
• A pump system to convey blended MFRO product water to agricultural reuse sites via
Hogback Reservoir.
The following low-flow MFRO waste or residuals streams will be discharged to an on-site
waste equalization wet well prior to discharge to the sanitary sewer for treatment at HARRF:
• Strainer backwash flows,
• Periodic MF/UF neutralized “clean in place” membrane cleaning and conditioning
flows,
• RO flush flows, and
• On-site sanitary sewer waste flows.
The ROWD included an average monthly flow of 0.7 MGD from the MFRO to the Escondido
Land Outfall (ELO).The following MFRO waste or residuals streams will be discharged to a
15-inch-diameter brine pipeline for conveyance to the ELO and SEOO:
• MF/UF backwash flows,
• RO concentrate (brine), and
• Periodic RO “clean in place” membrane cleaning and conditioning flows.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Flow from Stone Brewing Co.1, Palomar Energy Center2, and the proposed MFRO Facility
commingle in the Discharger’s Industrial Brine Collection System. All the flows in the
Industrial Brine Collection System is metered prior to combining with flows from HARRF. All
the flows in the Industrial Brine Collection System is (1) co

[Page 105]
IV of the TSO).
In concert with the Program, the Discharger is moving forward with plans to evaluate further
expansion of recycled water use through indirect or direct potable reuse (IPR/DPR). The
Discharger identified future long-term upgrades to HARRF tertiary treatment, solids
processing, and electrical facilities that are planned in support of both the Program and the
indirect or direct potable reuse effort. Long-term upgrades to HARRF include:
• Demolishing the existing Digester No. 1 and constructing a new 2-million-gallon
replacement anaerobic digester;
• Demolishing the existing dissolved air floatation (DAF) units and constructing a new
sludge thickening system;
• Demolishing the existing 9-MGD tertiary treatment facility at HARRF (including the
DynaSand filters, ultraviolet light disinfection facilities, and chlorine contact facilities)
and constructing a new 12-MGD tertiary treatment facility that features a deep bed
sand filter system, chlorine contact basins, and a dechlorination system;
3 Order No. R9-2015-0026, NPDES No. CA0108944, Waste Discharge Requirements for the City of Escondido,
Hale Avenue Resource Recovery Facility, Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge to Escondido Creek, San Diego
County.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9
[Page 106]
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER R9-2018-0002
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107981
MEMBRANE FILTRATION/REVERSE OSMOSIS FACILITY
• Demolishing the existing emergency storage pond (which will be replaced by off-site
storage) and energy recovery building to provide room for siting the new digester and
chlorine contact facilities;
• Expanding the filter influent pump station and recycled water pump station to 12 MGD
• Installing additional standby power capacity; and
• Implementing site drainage improvements.
To support the City of Escondido’s long-term goal of assessing IPR/DPR opportunities, an
Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) demonstration project is to be co-located at the
MFRO Facility site. The AWPF demonstration project will be used to evaluate the
effectiveness of alternative treatment processes and for demonstrating compliance with
IPR/DPR public health protection standards currently being evaluated by the DDW. The
Discharger will coordinate with DDW to identify AWPF demonstration facility treatment
process specifications and testing protocols.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As a part of Time Schedule Order No. R9-2015-0027, Requiring the City of Escondido Hale
Avenue Resource Recovery Facility to Comply with Requirements Prescribed in Order
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 105]
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER R9-2018-0002
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107981
MEMBRANE FILTRATION/REVERSE OSMOSIS FACILITY
Number R9-2015-00263 NPDES Permit No. CA0108944 (TSO), the Discharger has
embarked on a comprehensive Agricultural Reuse Program (Program) to increase recycled
water use, reduce HARRF discharge flows and mass emission to the SEOO, and ensure that
wet weather HARRF discharges to the ELO and SEOO remain below the rated hydraulic
capacities of the outfalls. Major facilities improvements bei