[Page 81]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, which is located at 2411 Dairy Mart Road, San
Diego, adjacent to the United States and Mexico Border.
The Discharger provides municipal wastewater treatment services to a population of
approximately 150,000. The Facility treats wastewater collected from the southern portion of the
City of San Diego. The Facility treats wastewater collected from several City of San Diego
communities, including San Ysidro, Otay Mesa, and the Tijuana River Valley (all of which flow
through the Grove Avenue Pump Station (GAPS)). The Facility also receives raw wastewater
from a portion of the Imperial Beach system (through the Otay River Pump Station). The City of
Chula Vista, and unincorporated portions of South County and East County also contribute
wastewater flows to the Facility. Wastewater from the GAPS and the Otay River Pump Station
is primarily domestic sewage from residential and commercial activities.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the Facility consist of influent screening
using mechanical bar screens, aerated grit chambers, primary sedimentation tanks, 1.5 million
gallons of primary flow equalization, air-activated sludge process and an anoxic selector zone,
secondary clarifiers, mono-media (anthracite) filters, and ultraviolet disinfection.
The Facility produces tertiary treated reclaimed water which is transferred through a reclaimed
water distribution system to qualified reclaimed water customers. All influent flow receives
secondary treatment. The quantity of flow directed to the tertiary filtration facilities is dependent
on anticipated recycled water demands. During times of no recycled water demand, up to 15
MGD of secondary effluent will be discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the SBOO. During
times of high recycled water demand, the entire effluent flow may be directed to tertiary
treatment and subsequent beneficial reuse.
Solids removed through the screening and grit removal processes are hauled offsite and
disposed of in a landfill. Waste solids removed through the sedimentation/clarification process
are returned to the sewer system for transport to the City of San Diego Point Loma Wastewater
Treatment Plant, where they are again removed and directed to anaerobic digesters at the Point
Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant for stabilization. After digestion, the solids are dewatered
and thickened for reuse as a soil amendment or for disposal.
Secondary treatment design capacity at the Facility is currently 18.0 MGD as a 30-day average
daily flow. The current maximum permitted flow is 15.0 MGD.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 82]
CITY OF SAN DIEGO ORDER NO. R9-2013-0006
SOUTH BAY WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109045
The City of San Diego maintains a United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
approved pretreatment program for the Faci

===PLANNED CHANGES===

