[Page 90]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Solana Beach, City of Encinitas, City of
Del Mar, Cardiff Sanitation District, Encinitas Sanitation District, Solana Beach Sanitation District,
and the Rancho Santa Fe Community Services District, and serves a population of approximately
34,600, including residential and commercial users. There are no significant industrial users (SIUs)
in the Discharger’s service area. The design flow capacity of the Facility is 5.25 MGD. The
average annual influent flow to the Facility was 2.4 MGD in 2016.
The Facility also treats nuisance surface flows from storm drains. Between 2010 and 2015, the
Discharger implemented surface water diversion projects at Seascape Sur and at the Facility in
partnership with the City of Solana Beach and the City of Encinitas. The Seascape Sur diversion
structure allows the Discharger to divert nuisance surface runoff from a beach storm drain to the
sanitary sewer for treatment at the Facility. The diversion system at the Facility also conveys
nuisance surface flow from a nearby storm channel to the Facility for treatment. However, as the
City of Encinitas and other agencies in the Carlsbad Watershed Management Area plan on
reducing non-storm water discharges to municipal separate storm system sewers (MS4) (as
discussed further in section III.E.4 of this Fact Sheet), the amount of surface water available for
recycled water production may decrease in the future.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Secondary treatment at the Facility is accomplished with screening and aerated grit removal,
primary sedimentation using clarifiers, flow equalization, and activated sludge treatment
followed by secondary clarification. Secondary-treated effluent is either discharged to the
Pacific Ocean through the San Elijo Ocean Outfall (SEOO), or receives tertiary treatment for
reuse applications in the San Dieguito Water District (SDWD), Santa Fe Irrigation District
(SFID), Olivenhain Municipal Water District (OMWD), and City of Del Mar.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal are collected onsite and trucked
to a local landfill. Sludge treatment consists of dissolved air flotation thickening, anaerobic
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 91]
SAN ELIJO JOINT POWERS AUTHORITY ORDER R9-2018-0003
SAN ELIJO WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107999
digestion, and dewatering by a belt-filter press. Dewatered sludge is trucked to Yuma, Arizona
where it is land applied.
The 3.02-MGD tertiary treatment portion of the Facility (the Advanced Water Purification
Facility, AWPF) is designed to comply with the State Water Board Division of Drinking Water
(DDW) criteria for “disinfected tertiary recycled water”. The AWPF consists of two parallel
treatment trains. Train No. 1 provides coagulation, flocculation, and granular media filtration.
Train No. 2 provides both microfiltration (MF) and reverse osmosis (RO). The San Diego
Water Board issued written notice to the Discharger on March 15, 2013 authorizing the
initiation of discharge operations from the MF and RO facility. Spent washwater from the MF
units is stored in a sump and directed to the Facility primary clarifiers for treatment. RO
treatment is provided by units featuring thin film composite (TFC) membranes that achieve
approximately a 75 percent recovery rate. In its ROWD, the Discharger indicated that one-half
of the RO production capacity addressed within Order No. R9-2000-10 has been installed,
and existing onsite RO facilities can handle an influent flow of approximately 0.7 MGD and
produce approximately 0.5 MGD of product water. RO reject (brine) is commingled with
Facility secondary-treated

===PLANNED CHANGES===

