[Page 1]
California Department of Transportation
northbound and southbound sides of I-5 each consisting of eight 6,000 gallon septic tanks with
leachfield disposal. Wastewater flow is approximately 8,280 gpd (90% of potable use).
The RWD proposes an automated wastewater treatment system to provide disinfected
tertiary-treated wastewater for non-potable use (toilet flushing). The proposed system will
recycle approximately 80-90% of the wastewater flow with 10-20% being dispersed to an
existing leachfield on the northbound side of Interstate-5.
The proposed wastewater treatment system will consist of septic tanks, upflow anaerobic filters,
backwashing filters, a textile media filter, a microfiber filter, ozone injection, and chlorine
disinfection. Excess or off-spec wastewater can be diverted to the leachfield after the septic
tanks, upflow filters, or after the chlorine contact basin.
The disposal area consists of four leachfield areas, each with approximately 1,000 linear feet of
dispersal laterals. The leachfield trenches consist of 2-foot-wide trenches with perforated pipe
set in a bed of sand at a minimum depth of 2 feet. The system is equipped with a dosing pump
to alternate pumping between each of the leachfield areas.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with the
terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all attachments, and
MPR No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5278.
In accordance with Section B.1 of the General Order, treated wastewater discharged to the
Facility’s leachfield shall not exceed 20,000 gpd as a monthly average.
The General Order states in Section B.1.l that the Discharger shall comply with the setbacks
described in Table 3. This table summarizes different setback requirements for wastewater
system equipment, activities, land application areas, and storage and/or treatment ponds from
sensitive receptors and property lines where applicable. The Discharger shall comply with the
applicable setback requirements, as summarized in the following table:
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic Well Property Line Flowing Stream
Septic Tank,
Treatment System, 150 ft.b 5 ft.c 50 ft.c
Collection Systema
Leachfieldd 100 ft.c,e 5 ft.c 100 ft.c
a. Septic Tank, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment
located below ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
b. Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section
7.5.6.
c. Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K-1.
d. Leachfield includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems
except seepage pits.
e. California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site-specific conditions may allow
reduced setback or require an increased setback. See discussion in Well
Standards.
The Discharger shall comply with the septic system requirement specified in Section B.2 of the
General Order. The General Order states in Section B.2.c that to the maximum extent possible,
[Page 2]
Jerry Marcotte - 3 - 20 July 2018
California Department of Transportation
RV, portable toilet, or similar wastes shall not be discharged to a septic tank or functionally
equivalent system (e.g., Imhoff tank) without subsequent additional treatment (e.g., aerated
pond, recirculating sand filter, etc.) prior to disposal.
The General Order states in Section B.2.d that septic tanks shall be pumped when any of the
following conditions exists:
i. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one-third of the tank depth
of the first compartment.
ii. The scum layer is within 3 inches of the outlet device.
iii. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.
The General Order includes subsurface disposal system requirements in Section B.6. The
Facility includes leachfields; therefore, the Discharger must comply with the requirements in
Section B.6. Based on the information provided by the Discharger, the Facility’s leachfields are
classified as Class V wells. Therefore, the Discharger must comply with USEPA Underground
Injection Control requirements as specified in Section B.6.g. of the General Order.
The General Order includes recycled water system requirements in Section B.7. In addition to
compliance with the requirements of Section B.7, the Discharger shall comply with the permit
conditions specified in the 12 February 2018 Division of Drinking Water Title 22 Engineering
Report approval letter, these include:
• The Discharger shall reclaim the treated effluent in the manner described in the
17 November 2017 Title 22 Engineering Report. Any changes must be approved by the
Division of Drinking Water,
• Compliance with the 8 June 2008 letter “Use of Amiad Filtration Systems AMF
Wastewater Filter to comply with the California Water Recycling Criteria”,
• Submit quarterly reports to DDW with the required information (see MRP), and
• Provide proper notification when certain conditions occur at the Facility (see attached
12 February 2018 Division of Drinking Water Letter)
Failure to comply with the requirements in this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all
attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5278 could result in an enforcement action as
authorized by provisions of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than those
described in this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that
described in this NOA, you must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new
operation. If flow to the Facility substantially increases and approaches 20,000 gpd, you must
contact Central Valley Water Board staff to determine if further analysis is required.
Provision E.1 of the General Order requires dischargers enrolled under the General Order to
prepare and implement the following reports within 90 days of the issuance of this NOA
(By 19 October 2018):
• Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan (Provision E.1.a)
• Sampling Analysis Plan (Provision E.1.b)
• Sludge Management Plan (Provision E.1.c)
The General Order requires the Sludge Management Plan to be submitted to the Central Valley
Water Board within 90 days of the issuance of this NOA.
[Page 3]

[Page 4]
ATTACHMENT A – FACILITY MAP
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
JOHN “CHUCK” ERRECA SRRA
Leachfield Area
Septic Tanks
and Recycled
Water System
Northbound
Comfort Station
Southbound
Comfort Station
Drawing Reference: Attachment A – Facility Map
Google Earth California Department of
Map Data: © 2018 Transportation
John “Chuck” Erreca SRRA 0 250 500
Merced County
Approximate distance in feet
[Page 5]
ATTACHMENT B – PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
JOHN “CHUCK” ERRECA SRRA
Drawing

===PLANNED CHANGES===

