[Page 1]
8. The treatment and storage facilities consist of headworks, a flow diverter, aerated
treatment Ponds 1 and 2 operated in series, an aerated treatment Pond 4, an effluent
storage Pond 6 and the LAA. Pond 3 is out of service and Pond 5 is used for
emergencies. Attachment B and C present the site map and the schematic of the facilities,
respectively, which are attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
9. Wastewater is delivered into the treatment system through the headworks and the flow
diversion box to Pond 1 and then Pond 2. Each pond has an approximate surface area of
0.7-acre and an estimated depth of 12 feet with an approximate storage capacity of
5.5 acre-feet. Pond 1 is equipped with two 10-horsepower aerators. Pond 2 is equipped
with one 10-horsepower aerator.
10. The effluent from Pond 2 is conveyed to Pond 4, which functions as a settling/polishing
pond. Pond 4 has an approximate storage capacity of 9.5 acre-feet. A 5-horsepower
aerator was installed in Pond 4 to provide mixing and aeration.
11. From Pond 4, wastewater is conveyed to a disinfection facility where wastewater is
disinfected with sodium hypochlorite at 12 mg/L to meet the WDRs effluent coliform
limitations prior to being discharged to Pond 6.
12. Pond 6 is an unlined storage reservoir of secondary treated wastewater. It has an
estimated surface area of 25 acres and an approximate capacity of 205 acre-feet excluding
the two feet of freeboard. The soil conditions beneath the pond are unknown. In addition,
the site map shows that a diversion ditch was installed along the north side of Pond 6 to
minimize the amount of stormwater runoff entering Pond 6. The collected stormwater in
the diversion ditch drains into a natural drainage course nearby.
13. Pond 5 has a capacity of 40 acre-feet. A surface water diversion ditch was installed along
the northeast side of Pond 5. The Discharger discovered water at the base of the dam that
may have been seepage. During the use of Pond 5 in the winter 2005/2006, the
Discharger installed a collection sump at the base of the Pond 5 dam returning seepage
and collected water back to Pond 5. Prior to the year 2003, the Discharger used Pond 5 as
an effluent storage pond. The Discharger stopped using the pond for storage on a regular
basis, but uses it on an emergency basis during wet years (e.g., winter of 2005/2006).
Currently, Pond 5 contains stormwater runoff. All water in Pond 5 is pumped back to
Pond 6 for reuse. The RWD indicates that Pond 5 remains available for use in emergency
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2010-0070-01 3
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
situations when additional storage capacity is required. This Order requires the Discharger
to detail the use and maintenance of Pond 5 in its Operation and Maintenance Plan (O&M
Plan).
14. The secondary treated wastewater from Pond 6 is either further treated to tertiary levels for
SCGC irrigation or disposed to the on-site LAA. The tertiary treatment includes microfloc,
coagulation-flocculation, two stage filtration and UV disinfection. The tertiary wastewater
treatment and recycled water irrigation are regulated under an existing NPDES Permit.
The NPDES Permit allows the seasonal reuse of up to 0.95 mgd of tertiary treated
wastewater from Copper Cove WWTP for SCGC irrigation.
15. Approximately 35-acre of LAA, located northeast of Pond 6, is used to dispose of
secondary treated wastewater when recycled water is not needed. The runoff that occurs
within the LAA is returned to Pond 6 by graded slopes of the LAA.
16. The influent entering the WWTP at the headworks has been characterized as shown
below. The data are the monthly averages from December 2001 through January 2009.
Constituent Average
Inflow Rate 0.192 mgd
Biochemical Oxygen Demand 160 mg/L
Total Suspend Solids 167 mg/L
17. The quality of treated wastewater prior to discharge to Pond 6 (effluent) has been
characterized based on the monthly averages from December 2001 through January 2009.
Constituent Units Average
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L 7.9
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L 338
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L 7.4
TKN mg/L 7.5
pH Std. 7.3
During 2007 and 2008, the effluent monthly average TDS concentration was
approximately 400 mg/L. The monthly maximum effluent TDS concentra

[Page 3]
18. The Discharger plans to modify treatment facilities to increase the storage capacities
accommodating the proposed ADWF limit of 0.35 mgd. The changes include installing
mechanical headworks, reconfiguring Ponds 1 and 2 from series to parallel, and increasing
the Pond 6 dam height by approximately ten feet.
19. A new mechanical screen and screening washer have been installed to remove solids and
debris from the raw sewage. In addition, the influent pumping station will consist of a
10-foot diameter wet well with three submersible chopper pumps. Grit, solids, and other
dense material will settle and accumulate within the wet well and will be routinely cleaned
out and hauled to a permitted landfill facility, such as the Forward Landfill in Stockton.
These modifications are expected to significantly reduce the amount of solids conveyed to
the downstream treatment ponds.
20. The Discharger proposes to change the operation of Pond 1 and Pond 2 from series to
parallel in order to increase the treatment capacity efficiency. The Discharger has installed
four 15-horsepower aerators into Pond 1 and four 15-horsepower aerators into Pond 2 to
increase biological treatment. Each pond has a detention time of 6 to 12 days.
21. The RWD indicates that the operation of the parallel ponds will require more frequent
sludge removal for Ponds 1, 2, and 4 to maintain the function of these units and lessen
solids carryover to Pond 6. The Discharger states that when the sludge on the bottom of
Ponds 1 or 2 impacts the operation, sludge will be removed. Sludge will be stockpiled on
site for dewatering. Once laboratory analyses have demonstrated that the sludge is
suitable for alternative daily cover, the residual sludge will be hauled to a permitted landfill
facility. This Order requires the Discharger to update the specification of sludge handing in
the O&M Plan.
22. The Discharger plans to increase the capacity of Pond 6 by raising the dam height
approximately ten feet. Excluding two feet of freeboard, the proposed storage capacity of
Pond 6 will be approximately 415 acre-feet, which satisfies the 300 acre-feet storage
requirement of an ADWF of 0.35 mgd and 100-year return period annual precipitation.
Due to the Pond 6 expansion, the stormwater diversion features near Pond 6 need to be
evaluated and improvements to the diversion features will be part of the expansion project.
The cost of the Pond 6 expansion is estimated to be $5.6 million. As of August 2008, the
Discharger has not determined a specific timeline for this project due to financial hardship.
23. The RWD states that CCWD and the owners of SCGC intend to maximize the use of
recycled water for golf course irrigation. The SCGC will be able to replace 168 acre-feet of
surface water with recycled water for irrigation annually. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

