[Page 53]
1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 11 Tennent
Avenue in Pinole. It provides secondary treatment of domestic and commercial wastewater
for the cities of Pinole and Hercules in Contra Costa County. The Facility serves a population
of about 42,500 people. Attachment B shows a map of the area around the Facility.
2. Collection System. The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from two collection
systems. The City of Pinole’s collection system is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 51 miles of pipes and 2 pump stations. The City of Hercules’ collection
system is a separate sewer system comprised of approximately 58 miles of pipes and 4 pump
stations. The cities own and operate the collection systems within their city limits.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of influent screening,
primary clarification, biological secondary treatment, and disinfection. After upgrades are
online, the secondary treatment system will nitrify and denitrify average dry weather flows
by recirculating biologically-treated wastewater (Attachment C, Modified Ludzack-Ettinger
Mode). During dry weather, the Discharger expects effluent total nitrogen to be less than
15 mg/L. The treatment plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up to 3.52 million
gallons per day (MGD) (4.06 MGD after upgrades) and a peak wet weather capacity of
10.3 MGD (20 MGD after upgrades). From November 2015 through October 2016, the plant
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 54]
City of Pinole Order No. R2-2018-0004
Pinole-Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES No. CA0037796
treated a daily average of 2.4 MGD. Attachment C provides treatment plant flow schematics
for current and post-upgrade conditions.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge with a gravity
thickener and secondary sludge with a rotating drum thickener, then treats the combined
sludge with anaerobic digestion and dewaters the combined sludge with a centrifuge.
Biosolids are hauled to a landfill for disposal.
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not covered under the State Water Board’s
statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the plant and pump stations
is collected and directed to the plant headworks for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Discharge of treated effluent to San Pablo Bay is through a submerged, multi-port diffuser located
approximately 3,775 feet offshore (Discharge Point No. 001) at a depth of 16.7 feet below mean sea
level. The 120-foot diffuser consists of 15 pairs of diffuser ports (30 ports total) placed 8 feet apart
on center and located approximately 5 inches above the San Pablo Bay floor. The 2.5-inch diameter
ports are sharp-edged. According to an outfall pipeline inspection conducted in August 2016, two of
the diffuser ports are buried. Provision VI.C.5.e of this Order requires the Discharger to ensure that
all diffuser ports are operational

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger began construction of plant upgrades in May 2016 and expects to bring the
upgrades online in February 2019. These upgrades include modifying the existing aeration
basins, constructing three new secondary clarifiers, and replacing the effluent pumping station.
Once the upgrades are brought online, secondary treatment capacity will be increased from 10.3
to 20 MGD (peak instantaneous flow) and the effluent conveyance capacity to the deepwater
outfall from 8.5 to approximately 13.9 MGD. Provision VI.C.5.c of this Order requires the
Discharger to determine the maximum effluent conveyance capacity to the deepwater outfall
once the upgrades are brought online. These improvements are expected to eliminate the need