[Page 55]
1. Locations and Service Areas. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 101 W. Jack
London Boulevard in Livermore. It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial,
and industrial wastewater for the City of Livermore. The plant serves a population of about
85,000.
2. Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 295 miles of publicly-owned pipes, four pump stations, and three storm pump
stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 8.5 million gallons per day (MGD). In 2016, the average daily dry
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 56]
City of Livermore Order No. R2-2017-0018
NPDES No. CA0038008
weather flow was 3.3 MGD. The treatment process consists of screening, grit removal,
pre-aeration, primary clarification, activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and
sodium hypochlorite disinfection. The plant also has an emergency storage basin with a
capacity of 15 million gallons. Additionally, the plant can provide tertiary treatment for an
average of 6.0 MGD. The resulting recycled water is used as process water at the plant and
for irrigation, fire protection, and fire suppression in the City’s Recycled Water Service Area.
In 2016, the plant produced an average of 1.8 MGD of recycled water
4. Livermore Amador Valley Water Management Agency (LAVWMA). LAVWMA is a
Joint Exercise of Powers Agency created in 1974, whose member agencies are the City of
Livermore and the Dublin San Ramon Services District. The City of Livermore’s treated
effluent is exported to the LAVWMA facilities, where it is combined with the Dublin San
Ramon Services District’s treated effluent and flows into three flow-equalization basins
before being pumped through LAVWMA’s pipeline to the EBDA pipeline for final
dechlorination at EBDA’s Marina Dechlorination Facility. By contractual agreement,
LAVWMA is responsible for operating and maintaining the LAVWMA facilities. EBDA is
responsible for the combined transport, dechlorination, and discharge of LAVWMA’s
effluent.
5. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is anaerobically digested and dewatered using belt
filter presses. The dried biosolids are hauled to an authorized disposal site.
6. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the individual plants and pump
stations is collected and directed to the headworks of the individual plants for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Discharger discharges treated effluent to Lower San Francisco Bay through the EBDA
Common Outfall (Discharge Point No. 001). The outfall’s diffuser is located 37,000 feet offshore
and is submerged 23.5 feet under the water surface. The diffuser consists of 251 six-inch bell mouth
riser ports that split into 2 three-inch perpendicular discharge points. Lower San Francisco Bay is
located in the Lower San Francisco Bay Basin watershed between the San Francisco-Oakland Bay
Bridge and the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge. In August 2016, EBDA completed a two-week diver
and remote operated vehicle inspection of the outfall and concluded that it is in good workin

===PLANNED CHANGES===

