[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The California Men’s Colony Wastewater Treatment Plant was originally constructed in
1940 by the Army Corps of Engineers, which operated the facility until the early 1960s,
when the Department of Corrections assumed responsibility for its operation. Treatment
modifications and upgrades occurred in 1979 and 1985; and in the fall of 2006, major
modifications and upgrades were completed.
In addition to treating domestic wastewater from the East and West Facilities of the
California Men’s Colony, the facility provides wastewater treatment for the California
National Guard’s Camp San Luis Obispo, Cuesta College, and several County facilities,
including the County Jail, Education Center, and an operations facility. The California
National Guard, San Luis Obispo County, and Cuesta College own and maintain discrete
wastewater collection and transport systems that discharge to the Department of
Corrections’ trunk sewer system. The entire service area includes approximately 13,000
acres with an estimated population of 16,000. Approximately 11,700 acres of the service
area are public lands.
The Discharger reports the following design flows for the recently upgraded (2006)
wastewater treatment facility.
Average Dry Weather Flow 1.2 MGD
Average Annual Flow 1.3 MGD
Average Day Maximum Monthly Flow 1.8 MGD
Peak Hour Dry Weather Flow 2.4 MGD
Peak Hour Wet Weather Flow 5.2 MGD
The headworks of the new facility include a parshall flume with a capacity of 5.73 MGD,
barscreens, and an aerated grit chamber. Two oxidation ditches with mechanical mixers,
each having a volume of 1.76 million gallons, provide a hydraulic residence time of 41
hours at the average daily maximum monthly flow rate. Tertiary treatment is accomplished
by sand filtration, using eight filter cells with surface areas of 50 square feet each. The
facility disinfects with sodium hypochlorite and dechlorinates using sodium bisulfite before
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 68]
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
CALIFORNIA MEN’S COLONY
ORDER NO. R3-2006-0032
NPDES NO. CA0047856
discharging to Chorro Creek. Two centrifuges are used to dewater sludge, generating up to
2.2 dry tons of solids per day. Treated wastewater is used by the County to irrigate the
Dairy Creek Golf Course and discharged to Chorro Creek at a minimum continuous flow
rate of 0.75 cubic feet per second. Wastewater solids are dewatered by centrifuge and
hauled from the site for disposal.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Effluent from the California Men’s Colony Wastewater Treatment Plant is discharged to
Chorro Creek, within the Chorro Subarea of the Estero Bay Hydrologic Unit. Chorro Creek
is a drinking water source for the City of Morro Bay, as well as a fresh water source for the
Morro Bay Estuary.
C. Summary of Existing Requireme

===PLANNED CHANGES===

