[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The California Men’s Colony wastewater treatment plant was originally constructed in 1940 by
the Army Corps of Engineers, which operated the facility until the early 1960s, when the
Department of Corrections assumed responsibility for its operations. Treatment modifications
and upgrades occurred in 1979 and 1985, and in the fall of 2006, major modifications and
upgrades were completed.
In addition to treating domestic wastewater from the East and West Facilities of the California
Men’s Colony, the facility provides wastewater treatment for the California National Guard’s
Camp San Luis Obispo, Cuesta College, and several County facilities, including the County Jail,
Education Center, and operations facility. The California National Guard, San Luis Obispo
County, and Cuesta College own and maintain discrete wastewater collection and transport
systems that discharge to the Department of Corrections’ trunk sewer system. The entire
service area includes approximately 13,000 acres with an estimated population of 16,000.
Approximately 11,700 acres of the service area are public lands.
Design flows for the recently upgraded (2006) wastewater treatment facility are summarized
below.
Attachment F– Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 67]
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS ORDER NO. R3-2012-0027
CALIFORNIA MEN’S COLONY NPDES NO. CA0047856
Table F-2. Design Flows
Average Dry Weather Flow 1.2 MGD
Average Annual Flow 1.3 MGD
Average Day Maximum Monthly Flow 1.8 MGD
Peak Hour Dry Weather Flow 2.4 MGD
Peak Hour Wet Weather Flow 5.2 MGD
The headworks of the new facility include a Parshall flume with a capacity of 5.73 MGD,
barscreens, and an aerated chamber. Additional treatment is provided by two oxidation ditches
and two secondary clarifiers. Tertiary treatment is accomplished by sand filtration, using eight
filter cells with surface areas of 50 square feet each. The facility disinfects treated effluent with
sodium hypochlorite and dechlorinates using sodium bisulfite before discharging to Chorro
Creek. Two centrifuges are used to dewater sludge, generating up to 2.2 dry tons of solids per
day. Wastewater solids are hauled from the site for disposal. Treated wastewater is used by the
County to irrigate the Dairy Creek Golf Course and discharged to Chorro Creek at a minimum
continuous flow rate of 0.75 cubic feet per second (cfs).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Effluent from the California Men’s Colon

[Page 71]
E. Planned Changes
Currently all flow at the Facility is disinfected by sodium hypochlorite and then dechlorinated by
sodium bisulfite. The Discharger is planning a disinfection upgrade project to address ongoing
trihalomethane and salt effluent violations. With the completion of the disinfection upgrade
project, ultraviolet (UV) light will become the primary means of effluent disinfection. The sodium
hypochlorite system will continue to be used to provide a chlorine residual to the water that will
be used for water recycling activities at the Dairy Creek Golf Course, and for the Facility's plant
water used for wash down and maintenance. With the conversion to UV disinfection, the
dechlorination system will no longer be used for the treatment process of effluent discharged to
Chorro Creek and sodium bisulfite will no longer be on the site.
The Facility is expected to construct the new UV system beginning in fall 2012 and should be
completed within the following 14 to 16 months. Once the system is online, effluent will be
disinfected through one channel of UV lights. A second channel of UV lights will be in service
during peak flow events. A composite sampler will be installed in each channel that will

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Currently all flow at the Facility is disinfected by sodium hypochlorite and then dechlorinated by
sodium bisulfite. The Discharger is planning a disinfection upgrade project to address ongoing
trihalomethane and salt effluent violations. With the completion of the disinfection upgrade
project, ultraviolet (UV) light will become the primary means of effluent disinfection. The sodium
hypochlorite system will continue to be used to provide a chlorine residual to the water that will
be used for water recycling activities at the Dairy Creek Golf Course, and for the Facility's plant
water used for wash down and maintenance. With the conversion to UV disinfection, the
dechlorination system will no longer be used for the treatment process of effluent discharged to
Chorro Creek and sodium bisulfite will no longer be on the site.
The Facility is expected to construct the new UV system beginning in fall 2012 and should be
completed within the following 14 to 16 months. Once the system is online, effluent will be
disinfected through one channel of UV lights. A second channel of UV lights will be in service
during peak flow events. A composite sampler will be installed in each channel that will