[Page 84]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The City of Santa Cruz owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal system which provides sewerage service for the City of Santa Cruz and areas of
the Santa Cruz County Sanitation District. The City of Scotts Valley adds its treated
wastewater to the Discharger’s effluent for combined disposal. The collection system
comprises 185 miles of gravity sanitary sewer lines, 4.2 miles of forced main, and 54 pump
stations, all of which discharge untreated municipal waste water to the treatment plant.
The plant also treats dry weather flows from Neary Lagoon, septage from unsewered
areas, and grease trap pumping. The Wastewater Treatment Plant’s design, average dry
weather treatment capacity is 17 MGD, with a design peak wet weather treatment capacity
of 81 MGD. In 2009, average monthly influent flow ranged from 8.1 to 13.9 MGD and
averaged 9.2 MGD. Average monthly effluent flow ranged between 7.1 and 12.5 MGD
and averaged 8.1 MGD.
Treatment at the Santa Cruz Wastewater Treatment Plant is currently accomplished by
screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, biological tower trickling filters,
solids contact stabilization, and secondary clarification, and disinfection with ultraviolet
light. Biosolids are processed by anaerobic digestion, then belt filter press dewatering.
Stabilized solids are transported to Merced County and applied to land. Methane gas
produced by anaerobic digestion is used to generate power and heat the digesters at the
treatment plant. Treated wastewater is discharged through a 12,250-foot outfall/diffuser
system to Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Discharge of secondary treated wastewater currently occurs approximately one mile from
the shoreline in Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary at a depth of approximately 100
feet. The diffuser section of the ou

===PLANNED CHANGES===

