[Page 1]
EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The CSA 44 Zone E (Castello) WWTF is owned by San Joaquin County Public Works (hereafter
“Discharger”) and is operated by San Joaquin County Utilities Maintenance Division. The WWTF is
located at 8200 Waterwell Way, Tracy, in San Joaquin County as shown on Attachment A, which is
attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. The residential subdivision is located in
an area without a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, wastewater is collected and
treated on-site. The WWTF serves 88 residential homes and does not serve any commercial or
industrial facilities. Wastewater is generated from domestic use, such as toilets and washing. The
site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by
reference.
The WWTF is an activated sludge treatment system with tertiary treatment. A wastewater flow
schematic is shown on Attachment C. Wastewater is collected in a lift station, pumped to an
equalization tank, and then pumped to an anoxic tank at a reduced/equalized rate to minimize
hydraulic and organic loading surges through the system. The flow through the entire activated
sludge process is by gravity in a continuous-flow system. Mixed liquor recycle (MLR) pumping
brings high-nitrate mixed solution from the aeration tank to the anoxic tank to achieve denitrification.
Return activated sludge (RAS) is recycled from the clarifier to the anoxic tank for maintaining healthy
biomass in the biological reactors. Periodically, the sludge is sent to the sludge digester as waste
activated sludge (WAS).
The tertiary treatment stage uses equalized flow to process secondary effluent through filtration and
disinfection. Dual media filters are used to remove excess suspended matter from the secondary
effluent. The effluent is then disinfected by chlorine bleach in the chlorine effluent tank, prior to
discharging to a disposal field.
The disposal field is located southwest of the WWTF along the railroad right of way, as shown on
Attachment B. The disposal field is a subsurface emitter field consisting of six disposal zones. The
z

[Page 2]
Drainage
Septic Tank, Treatment
System, & Collection 150 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
System 1
Leach Field 2 100 ft. 100 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
1 Setbacks referenced under “Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or
Collection System” in Table 3 of General Order.
2 Setbacks referenced under “Leach Field” in Table 3 of General Order.
[Page 3]
San Joaquin Public Works - 4 - 20 April 2018
CSA 44 Zone E (Castello)
This is an existing facility, constructed prior to the issuance of the new General Order for
Small Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems, and the disposal area is not compliant with
the setbacks included in the General Order. However, the WWTF will still be permitted under
this General Ord

===PLANNED CHANGES===

