[Page 1]
2.5 miles south of Kingsburg in Tulare County as shown in Attachment A.
The previous NOA issued for the OWTS authorized the discharge of up to 6,000 gpd of
domestic wastewater from toilets, urinals, and sinks to a leach field at the Warlow
SRRA. The OWTS consisted of two 4,500-gallon capacity (total capacity of 9,000
gallons) septic tanks, from which wastewater was discharged into a leach field with 750
linear feet of leach field trench (Leach Field A).
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The Discharger completed upgrades to the Warlow SRRA in early 2025 to reduce the
volume of wastewater flow through the OWTS by installing low flow urinals (0.11 gallons
per flush) and toilets (1.28 gallons per flush). In addition, OWTS upgrades were also
completed to treat the higher strength wastewater associated with the low flow
equipment by installing enhanced primary and secondary treatment processes. With the
changes to the OWTS system and estimated projected increase in usage over the next
30 years, the Discharger estimates that the future average and peak water usage for
this Facility will be 1,300 gpd and 3,400 gpd, respectively.
OWTS upgrades include replacement of septic tanks and leach field, and the addition of
equalization and a recirculating packed bed filter system. In total, treatment system
component upgrades have resulted in a maximum total capacity of almost
26,000 gallons. A process flow diagram of the OWTS, with upgrades, is included as
Attachment B.
Wastewater generated at the comfort stations is now sent to a five-chamber
10,000-gallon septic tank with two upflow contact chambers and two upflow media filters
to increase the removal of small particles and provide primary treatment. Additionally,
biofilm growth in the up-flow media filters is intended to aid further removal of dissolved
organic matter. Septic tank effluent is then sent to a new 4,000-gallon equalization tank
prior to secondary treatment, which consists of a recirculating packed bed filter system
with an approximate 11,900-gallon capacity. After, the wastewater is directed to a new
2,261 square-foot pressure dosed leach field that includes 800-linear feet lines of
infiltration chambers with an observation well on each line. The new leach field system
was designed considering an equalized flow of 1,551 gpd. Leach Field A is available for
overflow protection for the equalization tank, if necessary, but will not be used as the
primary means for treated effluent disposal.
[Page 2]
Jose Velasquez - 3 - 23 September 2025
California Department of Transportation
CH Warlow Safety Roadside Rest Area
NOA 2014-0153-DWQ-R5296-01
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS
The Discharger shall maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply
with terms and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

