[Page 52]
2. Collection Systems. The Discharger owns and operates about 28 miles of main sewer lines, five
flow equalization storage facilities, and six pump stations. It also owns and operates about 43
miles of satellite sewer lines in the community of Bay Point. The cities of Pittsburg and Antioch
own and operate about 130 miles and 300 miles of satellite sewer lines that feed into the
Discharger’s collection system.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The Discharger treats all of its influent (about 13.1 MGD) to
secondary treatment standards. Treatment processes include screening and grit removal, primary
clarification, biological treatment using trickling towers or aeration basins (or both), secondary
clarification, disinfection using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic. About 6.3 MGD after secondary clarification is routed
to tertiary treatment units (flocculating clarifiers, sand filters, and chlorination) at a separate
treatment facility.
Most of the tertiary-treated water is recycled and used for cooling tower makeup water at the
Delta and Los Medanos Energy Centers. About 10 percent of the recycled water is used for
landscape irrigation at local parks and golf courses. The power plants return about 2 MGD of
cooling tower blowdown to the wastewater treatment plant, where it is combined with
secondary-treated water, chlorinated and dechlorinated, and discharged. Waste flows generated
from tertiary treatment are routed to the plant headworks upstream of the influent sampler.
The plant receives a very small saline waste stream (about 0.005 MGD) from Dow Chemical
Company that is combined with treated secondary effluent just prior to the chlorine contact
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 53]
Delta Diablo ORDER No. R2-2014-0030
NPDES No. CA0038547
chamber. It contains no organic matter so biological treatment would have no benefit, and its
salinity, if added at headworks, would decrease the Discharger’s ability to recycle water.
The plant has an average dry weather design capacity of 19.5 million gallons per day (MGD).
During the previous order term, the average dry weather flow was about 13.2 MGD. Peak wet
weather flows are managed with a 2.2 million gallon (MG) flow equalization tank, a 1.0 MG
equalization basin, a 12.8 MG emergency retention pond, and about 4 MG of storage capacity at
the collection system pump stations. All wastewater (except for Dow’s high-salinity waste
stream) receive secondary treatment. During periods of exceptionally high flows, wastewater in
excess of the secondary treatment capacity is stored and treated later when flows subside.
4. Biosolids Management. Biosolids are concentrated using a gravity belt thickener, anaerobically
digested, and dewatered by centrifuge. Dewatered biosolids are hauled to the Vasco Road
Landfill or Potrero Hills Landfill, composted, or applied to land.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Effluent is discharged to New York Slough through a deep-water diffuser about 500 feet offshore.
The diffuser is a 42-inch-diameter iron pipe about 400 feet in length at a depth of about 26 feet. The
diffuser consists of 50 ports spaced 8 feet apart in alternating directions. The diffuser port openings
are 3 inches in diameter. The Discharger inspects the diffuser annually.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Monitoring Data
Effluent limitations contained in the previous order and representative monitoring data from the
previous order term are presented below.
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Moni

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects at the plant during this permit term. These
changes are for informational purposes only, and are not requirements of this Order except to the
extent that they pertain to increasing or assuring reliability of treatment and/or wastewater collection
systems. Their inclusion here does not imply authorization by the Regional Water Board. The
Discharger must seek any necessary permits or permit modification to implement the change.
 The Discharger will install a second gravity belt thickener for sludge processing to increase
efficiency and process reliability.
 The Discharger will install a 10,000-gallon fats, oils, and grease receiving station. The fats, oils,
and grease station will help reduce fats, oils, and grease discharges to the collection system,
enhance biogas production in the digesters, and improve biogas quality.
 The Discharger is evaluating the possibility of accepting brine waste for a high-purity water
treatment system that would desalinate San Joaquin River water for high-end industrial uses.
Like the brine waste from Dow Chemical Company (described in Fact Sheet section II.A.3), the
brine waste would be inserted into the process at the head of thechlorine contact chambers.
None of these changes will alter the treatment processes.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described below.
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4,
chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with § 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to Clean
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 55]
Delta Diablo ORDER No. R2-2