[Page 1]
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The OWTS is owned and operated by the Discharger. The OWTS will replace an existing OWTS~
which is deteriorating, with an activated sludge plant, manufactured by P. J. Hannah. The OWTS is
sized for 25,000 gpd, but will be operated at flows not to exceed 15,000 gpd in order to incorporate
denitrification.
Based on County records, the R WD reports that percolation rates determined during initial OTWS
construction ranged from less than 1 to 2 minutes per inch. The RWD states that during the construction
of the OWTS, a significant amount of fill materials ranging from clay loam to sandy loam was placed
within the leachfield area. The R WD indicates that a 12-foot-deep test pit was excavated in 2005 to
determine that the existing leachfield lines -vyere installed 3 feet below ground surface (bgs), an
intermittent sand lens exists 5-6 feet bgs, and groundwater was not encountered in the test pit. The
R WD indicates that area groundwater is between 40 - 50 feet below grom1d surface (bgs), according to
the Lines ofE qual Elevation of Water in Wel/s·in Unconfined Aquifer, published by Department of ·
Water Resources (DWR) in Spring of 2

[Page 1]
Water Resources (DWR) in Spring of 2000. ·
. Regional Board staff ietter, dated 23 A~gust 2005, indicated that the rapid percolation rates cited in the
R WD exceed that identified in the Guidelines for conventional onsite systems. Be.cause the discharge,
as originally proposed, threatened to pollute groundwater, the letter required the Discharger to revise its
discharge (e.g., decreasing leachfield percolation rates by installing engine·ered fill or upgrading the new
package plant to implement filtration and disinfection): The Discharger submitted a supplemental
RWD, dated 20 September 2005, which proposed the latest OTWS design by incorporating filtration and
disinfection. · · -
The OWTS will consist of: a commfouter, aeration basin, clarifier, filtration unit, an ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection system; a sludge holding tank and 1,314 linear feet of existing leachfield lines. To protect
the beneficial uses of groundwater, effluent discharged to the leachfields wi11 be characterized by
20 ing/L biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), 20 mg/L total suspended.solids (TSS), 10 mg/L total
nitrogen, and 23 MPN/100 mL total coliform organisms (TCO). The effluent limits set forth in this
NOA are based .on the effluent quality characterized in the Discharger's RWD.
The source water for the Del Rio East community is from two onsite groundwater wells approximately
1,500 feet south of the· OTWS. The nearest precipitation gage for which clata is readily available is a
)
[Page 2]
Jee OS 05 Ol:3Sp IMH MU!t:.1-~erv1c~~, .1.11". ----· ·-·--
General Order No. 97-10-DWQ-R5042 -3- ·15 November 2005·
an
weather station in the City of Modesto, operated by the Modesto Irrigation District, which reports
average annual r~infall of about 8 inc~es. .
..
This NOA regulates the OWTS and its discharge of domestic wastewater to

[Page 2]
5. Effluent discharged to the leachfield shall not exceed the following limits:·
Units Monthly Avernge Daily Maximum
BOD mg/L 20 40
TSS mg/L 20 40
Total Nitrogen mg/L I 0
Total Coliform Organism MPN1/100 mL 23 240
Most probable number
6 .. As a means for detennining compliance with General Order Requirement B.3. the Discharger
shall include in each annual report (due l5 January) a copy df a Jog docun;i.enting t~e quantity
and method of disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings and sludge) removed from the OWTS.
during the previous calendar year. .
7. All technical reports required herein that involve evaluation, or other work requiring
interpretation and proper appUcation of engineering or geologic sciences, s~all be prepared by or
under the direction of persons registered to practice in California pursuant Jo California Business .
and Professions Code, sections 6735,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

