[Page 55]
1. Locations and Service Areas. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 7399 Johnson
Drive in Dublin. It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial
wastewater for the Cities of Dublin, Pleasanton, and San Ramon. The plant serves a
population of about 146,900.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 56]
Dublin San Ramon Services District Order No. R2-2017-0017
NPDES No. CA0037613
2. Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 206 miles of publicly-owned pipes. The collection system takes wastewater
from the City of Pleasanton collection system, which in turn is comprised of approximately
255 miles of publicly-owned pipes.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 17.0 million gallons per day (MGD). In addition, the plant also
receives up to 3.2 MGD of reverse osmosis reject water from the Alameda County Flood
Control and Water Conservation District (Zone 7 Water Agency) (see Fact Sheet
section II.A.4, below). The reject water is combined with the plant effluent after secondary
treatment and disinfection, and before Monitoring Location EFF-002F2. In 2016, the average
daily dry weather influent flow was 9.7 MGD, including the Zone 7 Water Agency reject
water. Due to wastewater recycling, the average dry weather effluent flow was 2.3 MGD,
including Zone 7 Water Agency reject water.
4.
The plant treatment process consists of screening, grit removal, primary clarification,
activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection. The
plant also has four concrete-lined storage basins with a total capacity of 22 million gallons
(with two feet of freeboard) for flow equalization.
5. Zone 7 Water Agency Demineralization and Brine Disposal Project. The Zone 7 Water
Agency manages water quality for the Alameda Creek watershed north of the Niles area of
Fremont and has the primary responsibility for managing the Livermore-Amador Valley’s
surface and groundwater. In accordance with Regional Water Board Order No. 93-159
(Master Recycling Permit), the Zone 7 Water Agency developed a Salt Management Plan in
1998 to allow increased recycled water production while also managing salt accumulation
within its groundwater basin. The plan, approved on September 24, 2004, required the
construction of groundwater demineralization facilities to satisfy salt loading and water
hardness goals. The Zone 7 Water Agency removes salts from approximately 15 MGD of
groundwater through reverse osmosis, resulting in in a maximum of 3.2 MGD of reject water
that, by agreement between the Discharger and the Zone 7 Water Agency, is combined with
the Discharger’s effluent.
6. Livermore Amador Valley Water Management Agency (LAVWMA). LAVWMA is a
Joint Exercise of Powers Agency created in 1974, whose member agencies are the Dublin
San Ramon Services District and the City of Livermore. The Dublin San Ramon Services
District’s treated effluent is exported to the LAVWMA facilities, where it is combined with
the City of Livermore’s treated effluent and flows into three flow-equalization basins before
being pumped through LAVWMA’s pipeline to the EBDA pipeline for final dechlorination
at EBDA’s Marina Dechlorination Facility. By contractual agreement, LAVWMA is
responsible for operating and maintaining the LAVWMA facilities, and EBDA is responsible
for the combined transport, dechlorination, and discharge of LAVWMA’s effluent.
7. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is thickened by dissolved air floatation,
anaerobically digested, and treated in six onsite sludge lagoons for approximately five years.
The treated sludge is injected into soil at an onsite disposal area.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 57]
Dublin San Ramon Services District Order No. R2-2017-0017
NPDES No. CA0037613
8. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the individual plants and pump
stations is collected and directed to the headworks of the individual plants for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Discharger discharges treated effluent to Lower San Francisco Bay through the EBDA
Common Outfall (Discharge Point No. 001). The outfall’s diffuser is located 37,000 feet offshore
and is submerged 23.5 feet under the water surface. The diffuser consists of 251 six-inch bell mouth
riser ports that split into 2 three-inch perpendicular discharge points. Lower San Francisco Bay is
located in the Lower San Francisco Bay Basin watershed between the San Francisco-Oakland Bay
Bridge and the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge. In August 2016, EBDA completed a two-week diver
and remote operated vehicle inspection of the outfall and concluded that it is in good workin

===PLANNED CHANGES===

