[Page 8]
9. Wastewater at the Facility is generated from residential users at the mobile home
park and the RV park and from commercial properties connected to the collection
system, which currently consists of a gas station and two fast-food restaurants.
10. The collection system is comprised of gravity sewer piping, a main lift station,
and a force main to convey wastewater to the Facility.
11. At the time WDRs Order R5-2010-0013 was adopted, the Facility consisted of
four unlined evaporation/percolation ponds that operated as individual treatment
and disposal ponds. The ponds have since been reconfigured to operate as a
traditional facultative pond system. The Facility currently consists of two lined
treatment ponds that are operated in series and two disposal ponds that may be
operated in tandem or alternating. Wastewater flows through the lined treatment
ponds and subsequently into the dedicated disposal ponds, which help to
promote solids settling and wastewater stabilization prior to disposal. The ponds
are designated numerically from the west to the east as Pond 1, Pond 2, Pond 3,
and Pond 4. A facility map and process flow diagram are shown in Attachment B
and C, respectively.
a. Wastewater is treated in facultative ponds (from Pond 4, then to Pond 3)
and no mechanical aeration or mixing currently exists. Aeration may be
[Page 9]
WDRS R5-2021-0045 3
CALIFORNIA AMERICAN WATER
DUNNIGAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
added in the future. Treatment Ponds 4 and 3 were lined with a 60-mil
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) system, which was completed during
the summer of 2020.
b. Ponds 2 and 1 are dedicated disposal ponds and were constructed with
rock slope protection consisting of quarry stone over bedding stone.
c. Interconnecting piping allows for bypassing and isolation of individual
ponds for maintenance.
12. Pond characteristics are summarized in Table 1. Depth and capacity estimated at
2 feet of freeboard from the top of berm.
Table 1. Pond Characteristics
Parameters Pond 4 Pond 3 Pond 2 Pond 1
Function Treatment Treatment Disposal Disposal
Surface Area, ac 0.28 0.31 0.29 0.29
Depth, ft 11 11.5 8.25 10
Capacity, ac-ft 2.2 2.1 1.3 1.7
13. Influent volumes and flow rates from 2016 through 2020 as provided in the RWD
are shown in Table 2. Monthly total volumes are shown in million gallons (MG)
with the monthly average in gallons per day (gpd) shown in parentheses.
Seasonal increases in w

[Page 13]
19. Since reconfiguring and lining two of the four ponds, effluent samples are
collected from treatment Ponds 3 and 4. Recent available effluent data for BOD
5
show an increase in BOD reduction from the average of 37.6 percent to
5
between 56 and 93 percent reduction (an average of approximately 83 percent
reduction).
20. Solids generated at the Facility consists of waste sludge accumulated in the
treatment ponds. During the pond reconfiguration, the ponds were drained, and
solids removed from the bottom of the ponds and disposed of at a permitted
landfill. To maintain treatment capacity, solids from the treatment ponds will be
[Page 14]
WDRS R5-2021-0045 8
CALIFORNIA AMERICAN WATER
DUNNIGAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
removed for disposal, dewatered, and collected in waste trucks for off hauling to
a landfill. Expected frequency of solids removal is every 15 to 20 years.
Changes to Facility
21. The Discharger proposes an average daily dry weather flow of 0.028 mgd. Based
on projected influent flows with a 5.5 percent safety factor (including future
planned commercial development consisting of a coffeehouse and approximately
80-room hotel with no pool or dining facilities), pond dimensions, and reasonable
estimates of precipitation and evaporation, the water balance provided in the
RWD demonstrates adequate disposal capacity. Approximately 56 percent of the
incoming wastewater will be generated from residential properties and the
remaining wastewater from commercial properties. The commercial property is
not fully developed. There are future plans to include a truck wash facility to
complete a full built out of the property.
22. Expansion of the Facility including a headworks influent screen and parallel
treatment trains, a disinfection system, recycled water use areas, and unlined
storage ponds for undisinfected effluent as envisioned in WDRs Order R5-2010-
0013 were not constructed and are no longer being proposed because the
envisioned developments west of Interstate 5 have not been constructed.
Alternatively, the evaporation/percolation ponds were reconfigured to operate as
a traditional facultative pond system.
Site Specific Conditions
23. The Facility is located on a relatively flat terrain. The area surrounding the Facility
is unpaved, with a gravel entrance road and gravel surrounding the ponds. Near
surface soils in the vicinity of the Facility are generally comprised of Rg Rincon
silty clay loam.
24. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) designates the location of
the Facility as an “Area of Minimal Flood Hazard”, Flood Zone X.
25. The nearest California Irrigation Management Information System (CIMIS) station
is the Zamora CIMIS Station (#27), approximately 6 miles to the south east of the
Facility. Based on data from the Zamora CIMIS Station, the annual average
precipitation in the area of the Facility is approximately 33.66 inches per year and
reference evapotranspiration is approximately 53.39 inches per year. The 100-
year total annual precipitation is approximately 37.36 inches per year.
26. Land use in the vicinity of the Facility primarily consists of agriculture, rural
residential and mobile home parks, and a truck stop area which includes two gas
stations and several fast-food restaurants. Land immediately to the east and
south of the Facility is agricultural consisting of mostly row crops such as
[Page 15]
WDRS R5-2021-0045 9
CALIFORNIA AMERICAN WATER
DUNNIGAN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
tomatoes, sunflowers, and melons. Immed

===PLANNED CHANGES===

