[Page 58]
1. Locations and Service Areas. EBDA is comprised of five member agencies: City of
Hayward, Oro Loma Sanitary District, Castro Valley Sanitary District, City of San Leandro,
and Union Sanitary District. The member agencies convey treated wastewater to the Marina
Dechlorination Facility, located at 14150 Monarch Bay Drive in San Leandro. LAVWMA
and its member agencies, Dublin San Ramon Services District and City of Livermore, also
convey wastewater to the Marina Dechlorination Facility. Attachment C shows a map of the
EBDA and LAVWMA member agency facilities.
a. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. The City of Hayward Water
Pollution Control Facility is located at 3700 Enterprise Avenue in Hayward. It provides
secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the City of
Hayward, serving a population of about 153,000.
b. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. The City of San Leandro Water
Pollution Control Plant is located at 3000 Davis Street in San Leandro. It provides
secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the northern
portion of the City of San Leandro, serving a population of about 60,000.
c. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control Plant. The
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts jointly own a wastewater treatment plant
located at 2600 Grant Avenue in San Lorenzo. It provides secondary treatment of
domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the communities of San Lorenzo,
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 59]
East Bay Dischargers Authority Order No. R2-2017-0016
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES No. CA0037869
Ashland, Cherryland, and Fairview, and portions of the cities of San Leandro and
Hayward, serving a population of about 190,000.
d. Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant. The Raymond A. Boege
Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant is located at 5072 Benson Road. It provides
secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of
Fremont, Newark, and Union City, serving a population of about 343,500.
e. LAVWMA Export and Storage Facilities. The LAVWMA export and storage facility
is located at 7176 Johnson Drive in Pleasanton. It receives, exports, and stores secondary
treated domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater from the cities of Dublin,
Livermore, and Pleasanton, serving a population of about 224,300. LAVWMA
wastewater also contains reverse osmosis reject water from the Zone 7 Water Agency
that is mixed with the Dublin San Ramon Services District’s final effluent. This reject
water results from the Zone 7 Water Agency’s Demineralization and Brine Disposal
Project, which removes salts from groundwater in the Zone 7 Water Agency’s
jurisdiction.
2. Collection Systems
a. City of Hayward. The City of Hayward collection system conveys wastewater to the
City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. It is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 325 miles of publicly-owned pipes and 9 lift stations.
b. City of San Leandro. The City of San Leandro collection system conveys wastewater to
the City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. It is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 130 miles of publicly-owned pipes and 13 lift stations.
c. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts. The Oro Loma Sanitary District
collection system conveys wastewater to the Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary
Districts Water Pollution Control Plant. It is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 272 miles of publicly-owned pipes and 14 lift stations. The Castro Valley
Sanitary District collection system also conveys wastewater to the Oro Loma and Castro
Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control Plant. It is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 148 miles of publicly-owned pipes and 9 lift stations.
d. Union Sanitary District. The Union Sanitary District collection system conveys
wastewater to the Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant. It is a
separate sewer system comprised of approximately 811 miles of publicly-owned pipes,
4 lift stations and 3 pump stations.
e. LAVWMA. The collection systems serving LAVWMA are covered by NPDES Permit
Nos. CA0037613 and CA0038008.
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. The City of Hayward Water
Pollution Control Facility can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 60]
East Bay Dischargers Authority Order No. R2-2017-0016
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES No. CA0037869
weather design flow of 18.5 million gallons per day (MGD). In 2015, the average daily
dry weather flow was 10.0 MGD. The treatment process consists of comminution, grit
removal, primary sedimentation, flow equalization, trickling filtration, activated sludge
aeration, secondary clarification, and chlorine disinfection. The plant also has 240 acres
of out-of-service oxidation ponds that can be used for emergency storage (e.g., during
peak wet weather).
b. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. The City of San Leandro Water
Pollution Control Plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry weather
design flow of 7.6 MGD. In 2015, the average daily dry weather flow was 4.3 MGD. The
treatment process consists of screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, trickling filtration, activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and
chlorine disinfection. The plant also has five acres of out-of-service oxidation ponds that
can be used for emergency storage.
c. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control Plant. The
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control Plant can provide
secondary treatment for an average daily dry weather design flow of 20.0 MGD. In 2015,
the average daily dry weather flow was 10.3 MGD. The treatment process consists of
screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and chlorine disinfection.
d. Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant. The Raymond A. Boege
Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant can provide secondary treatment for an average
daily dry weather design flow of 33.0 MGD. In 2015, the average daily dry weather flow
was 21.6 MGD. The treatment process consists of screening, primary sedimentation,
activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and chlorine disinfection.
The Union Sanitary District routes up to 5.0 MGD of treated wastewater from this plant
to Hayward Marsh through the EBDA pipeline, but may cease to do so during this Order
term. To improve its wet weather capacity, it may acquire an adjacent basin for
emergency storage.
e. Marina Dechlorination Facility. The Marina Dechlorination Facility dechlorinates
treated and disinfected effluent from the EBDA and LAVWMA member agencies using
sodium bisulfite.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management.
a. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. Sludge at the City of Hayward
Water Pollution Control Facility is anaerobically digested, dewatered in dewatering beds,
and air dried for up to two years. The City hauls dried biosolids to an authorized disposal
site for use as alternative daily cover.
b. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. Sludge at the City of San
Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant is anaerobically digested, dewatered using a belt
filter press, and air dried. The City hauls dried biosolids to an authorized disposal site or
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 61]
East Bay Dischargers Authority Order No. R2-2017-0016
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES No. CA0037869
applies the biosolids to land as Class A Exceptional Quality biosolids (see Attachment G
section I.K.1).
c. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control Plant.
Sludge at the Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control
Plant is anaerobically digested, dewatered using a belt filter press, and air dried in a solar
drying facility. The districts haul dried biosolids to an authorized disposal site.
d. Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant. Sludge at the Raymond
A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant is thickened, anaerobically digested, and
dewatered using centrifuges. The Union Sanitary District hauls dried biosolids to an
authorized disposal site. Up to 25 percent of the biosolids are composted offsite to make
Class A Exceptional Quality biosolids (see Attachment G section I.K.1).
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the individual plants and pump
stations is collected and directed to the headworks of the plants for treatment. Stormwater does
not interact with the Marina Dechlorination Facility because all treatment units and chemicals
associated with the facility are indoors.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Discharger discharges treated effluent to Lower San Francisco Bay through the EBDA
Common Outfall (Discharge Point No. 001). The outfall’s diffuser is located 37,000 feet offshore
and is submerged 23.5 feet under the water surface. The diffuser consists of 251 six-inch bell mouth
riser ports that split into 2 three-inch perpendicular discharge points. Lower San Francisco Bay is
located in the Lower San Francisco Bay Basin watershed between the San Francisco-Oakland Bay
Bridge and the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge. In August 2016, EBDA completed a two-week diver
and remote operated vehicle inspection of the outfall and concluded that it is in good workin

[Page 65]
1. EBDA. EBDA plans to upgrade and refurbish effluent pumps and drivers at several pump
stations throughout its system, and replace on-line monitoring at the Marina Dechlorination
Facility.
2. City of Hayward. The City of Hayward plans to install bar screens, screen washers, and
compactors at its plant headworks, replace its aged trickling filter, replace the Motor Control
Center at its effluent pump station, increase its reclaimed water system capacity, and begin
construction on a new Title 22 tertiary recycled water system.
3. City of San Leandro. The City of San Leandro plans to install high efficiency turbo blowers in
its aeration basins, a cogeneration power and heat system, and solar power panels.
4. Castro Valley Sanitary District. The Castro Valley Sanitary District plans to spend
approximately $22 million on a significant overhaul to repair and replace collection system
pipelines to minimize SSOs.
5. Oro Loma Sanitary District. The Oro Loma Sanitary District may optimize its existing
aeration basins and secondary clarifiers to implement nitrogen load reductions through
denitrification. This project is conceptual and has not yet been approved by the District’s Board.
Upon approval and completion of the denitrification project, the District plans to seek approval
to intermittently discharge to its nearshore outfall during wet weather.
6. Union Sanitary District. The Union Sanitary District may cease discharging to Hayward
Marsh. To prevent exceeding the plant’s flow capacity, the District may acquire and begin using
an adjacent basin for emergency storage during wet weather.
The District also plans to in

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects during this Order term. These changes are
for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they
pertain to increasing or ensuring the reliability of wastewater treatment or collection systems. Their
inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger must obtain any
necessary permits or permit modifications to implement these changes.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11
[Page 65]
East Bay Dischargers Authority Order No. R2-2017-0016
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES No. CA0037869
1. EBDA. EBDA plans to upgrade and refurbish effluent pumps and drivers at several pump
stations throughout its system, and replace on-line monitoring at the Marina Dechlorination
Facility.
2. City of Hayward. The City of Hayward plans to install bar screens, screen washers, and
compactors at its plant headworks, replace its aged trickling filter, replace the Motor Control
Center at its effluent pump station, increase its reclaimed water system capacity, and begin
construction on a new Title 22 tertiary recycled water system.
3. City of San Leandro. The City of San Leandro plans to install high efficiency turbo blowers in
its aeration basins, a cogeneration power and heat system, and solar power panels.
4. Castro Valley Sanitary District. The Castro Valley Sanitary District plans to spend
approximately $22 million on a significant overhaul to repair and replace collection system
pipelines to minimize SSOs.
5. Oro Loma Sanitary District. The Oro Loma Sanitary District may optimize its existing
aeration basins and secondary clarifiers to implement nitrogen load reductions through
denitrification. This project is conceptual and has not yet been approved by the District’s Board.
Upon approval and completion of the denitrification project, the District plans to seek approval
to intermittently discharge to its nearshore outfall during wet weather.
6. Union Sanitary District. The Union Sanitary District may cease discharging to Hayward
Marsh. To prevent exceeding the plant’s flow capacity, the District may acquire and begin using
an adjacent basin for emergency storage during wet weather.
The District also plans to in