[Page 26]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment or Controls
The Discharger owns and operates (1) the Point Isabel WWF at 2755 Isabel Street,
Richmond, (2) the San Antonio Creek WWF at 225 5th Avenue, Oakland, and (3) the
Oakport WWF at 5597 Oakport Street, Oakland. Attachment B provides a map of the
area around the WWFs.
The WWFs are connected to an interceptor system owned and operated by the
Discharger. The interceptor system is permitted under a separate NPDES permit for the
Discharger’s Main Wastewater Treatment Plant. This system includes the North and
South Interceptors (with a combined length of 29 miles), Adeline Interceptor, South
Foothill Interceptor, and Alameda Interceptor. The interceptor system has a hydraulic
capacity of 760 mgd. The interceptor system also includes 15 pump stations, 5 overflow
structures, and a million-gallon wet weather storage basin along the Alameda
Interceptor.
The Point Isabel WWF provides storage for peak wet weather flows diverted from the
North Interceptor. If influent flows persist and take up the storage capacity of the units,
the WWF provides treatment consisting of coarse screens, bar screens, grit chambers,
and sedimentation/disinfection basins. Screenings are disposed of at a landfill; grit and
sludge are returned to the interceptor. The effluent is discharged from Discharge Point
001 (see table on cover page) through a submerged diffuser about 300 feet offshore at
a depth of 8 feet below mean low tide line to Richmond Inner Harbor, part of central San
Francisco Bay, a water of the United States.
The San Antonio Creek WWF provides treatment to peak wet weather flows diverted
from the South Interceptor. Treatment consists of grit removal, fine screening, and
disinfection. Both screenings and grit are returned to the interceptor. The effluent is
discharged from Discharge Point 002 (see table on cover page) to Oakland Inner
Harbor, part of lower San Francisco Bay, a water of the United States.
The Oakport WWF provides storage for peak wet weather flows diverted from the South
Interceptor. If influent flows persist and take up the storage capacity of the units, the
WWF provides treatment consisting of course screens and sedimentation/disinfection
basins. Both screenings and sludge are returned to the interceptor. The effluent is
discharged from Discharge Point 003 (see table on cover page) to East Creek Slough,
which flows to Oakland Inner Harbor, part of lower San Francisco Bay, a water of the
United States.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 27]
East Bay Municipal Utility District, Special District No. 1 ORDER NO. R2-2014-0044
Wet Weather Facilities (WWFs) N

===PLANNED CHANGES===

