[Page 83]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system to provide
sewerage service to the City of Santa Barbara and portions of Santa Barbara County, serving
a population of approximately 98,818. Santa Barbara County retains ownership and direct
responsibility for wastewater collection and transport systems up to the point of discharge into
interceptors owned and operated by the City. The County of Santa Barbara owns five miles of
mainlines in Mission Canyon that is maintained by the City. The Central Coast Water Board
regulates the collection system under General Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ.
Secondary treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater consists of screening and
grinding, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge stabilization,
secondary clarification, disinfection (with sodium hypochlorite) and dechlorination (with
sodium bisulfite). Biosolids are processed by gravity thickening, dissolved air floatation
thickening, anaerobic digestion, and belt press dewatering. Dewatered solids are transported
off-site for disposal. In 2016, the City of Santa Barbara installed two high-density polyethylene
(HDPE) 55-gallon capacity in-line containers along with the chemical feed system to drain
hypochlorite into the chlorine contact chamber to address the reporting issues associated with
chemical feed disruption.
Prior to the chlorine contact chamber, a portion of the secondary treated effluent is diverted to
a newly modified tertiary membrane filtration system. The secondary treated effluent is
pretreated before passing through the membrane filtration system. The membrane filtration
system includes feed pumps, automatic strainers, microfiltration/ultrafiltration membranes,
and filtrate tank. After filtration, the effluent is chlorinated in a chlorine contact basin and used
for non-potable water reuse applications (e.g. landscape irrigation, construction for dust
control and soil compaction, toilet flushing, and the Facility’s process water). This Order
covers the production of the tertiary treated water for recycling. The distribution and use of
recycled water for irrigation are regulated separately by SWRCB General Water Reclamation
Requirements for Recycled Water Use (currently Order No. 2016-0068).
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 84]
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA ORDER NO. R3-2019-0046
EL ESTERO WATER RESOURCE CENTER NPDES NO. CA0048143
The remaining secondary treated effluent goes through the disinfection and dechlorination
process prior to discharge to the Pacific Ocean. The design average dry weather flow
treatment capacity of the wastewater treatment system is 11 million gallons per day (MGD),
with a design peak flow of 19 MGD. The average influent flow from May 2010 to November
2018 was 7.53 MGD, and the average daily final effluent flow was 7.44 MGD.
The City of Santa Barbara also owns a seawater desalination facility (Charles Meyer
Desalination Plant). The desalination facility was operational for a short time in 1994;
however, it was placed in standby mode in 1996 and has been operational since 2017 to
address drought-related water supply shortages. Depending on the desalination facility’s
freshwater production rate, the following waste brine and other supplemental desalination
flows are discharged to the ocean outfall at flow rates that may range from 1.2 to 12.5 MGD
with and without mixing with El Estero secondary effluent:
• Brine resulting from the reverse osmosis desalination process operation.
• Treated filter backwash water, including dewatering of backwash and lime clarifier
solids. Backwash water is produced by the desalination facility’s granular media
filtration process, which removes naturally occurring solids and biological material
from the seawater before it is desalinated by the facility’s reverse osmosis process.
Ferric sulfate and polymer may be added to the influent seawater to assist in the
removal of the particulate matter by the granular media filtration process. Upon
backwashing the filters, the backwash water is treated by a sedimentation process,
aided by more polymer addition, where the backwash solids are thickened into a
sludge that is subsequently dewatered and disposed of at a landfill. Solids and
maintenance flows produced by the desalination facility’s lime treatment system are
also discharged to the backwash water treatment system where these solids and
flows are treated and dewatered with the filter backwash water. The treated
backwash water is subsequently combined with discharges that flow to the ocean
outfall.
• Start-up and maintenance flows, off-spec treated seawater, and potable water may be
temporarily discharged to the ocean outfall during initial facility start-up, during or after
facility maintenance, or other times when the desalination facility is not delivering
potable water to the City’s customers. During such periods, the total maximum
discharge rate shall not exceed 12.5 MGD. Temporarily discharging such water does
not constitute a “bypass” as defined in Attachment D of this Order. All limits and
requirements, including monitoring, specified in this Order remain applicable during
these temporary discharges.
• Tank overflows and process water drains containing seawater, desalinated water, and
potable water are also combined with brine flows discharged to the ocean outfall.
The Discharger conducted a hydrodynamic analysis in 2014 (updated in 2016 based upon the
final design) titled: Hydrodynamic Modeling of Brine Dilution and Dispersion from the El
Estero Wastewater Treatment Plant Outfall, Santa Barbara, CA. This study confirms that the
waste brine and commingled brine/secondary treated effluent discharges at the outfall will
satisfy NPDES permit requirements. The study also specifies that the present outfall design is
capable of satisfying the initial dilution requirements under varying effluent flow rate
conditions, with the worse mixing conditions resulting from low flow and brine only (i.e., no
secondary effluent) discharge.
The Discharger constructed a brine disposal facility in 2018 where brine originating from a
local water conditioning facility (Rayne of Santa Barbara, Inc.) is trucked in and discharged
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 85]
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA ORDER NO. R3-2019-0046
EL ESTERO WATER RESOURCE CENTER NPDES NO. CA0048143
through the Facility’s existing outfall. This discharge is covered by the General Permit for
Discharges with Low Threat to Water Quality (Order No. R3-2017-0042, CAG993001). During
the previous permit term, the Discharger also upgraded various components of the brine
discharge structure.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Disinfected and dechlorinated secondary treated wastewater and waste brine are discharged
to the Pacific Ocean through an 8,720-foot outfall system with diffusers located along the
terminal 720 feet of the outfall. The outfall terminates in the Santa Barbara Channel
(34.39194° N latitude; 119.6675° longitude) in approximately 70 feet of water. The minimum
initial dilution ratio of the outfall/diffuser system is 120 to 1 (se

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the term of this Order, the Discharger plans to upgrade treatment processes and
related infrastructure through a variety of projects. These projects include:
• Influent Flow Monitoring and Sampling Project;
• Lift Station Rehabilitation Project;
• Update O&M Manual and related SOP Project;
• Concrete Repairs;
• Solids/Biosolids Assessment Project;
• El Estero Drainage Mitigation & Restoration Project;
• Recycle Water Pasteurization Feasibility Project; and
• Secondary Process System Improvement Project
The Secondary Process System Improvement Project has been implemented by the City to
achieve better performance of the secondary treatment system at the Facility. Major upgrades
will be made to multiple systems including the aeration system, secondary clarifier flow
distribution, and return activated sludge/waste activated sludge system. The project is
anticipated to be completed by 2019.
The El Estero Water Resource Center has increased the City capacity for self sufficient water
supplies through increased recycling and desalination. Additionally, the City has evaluated
the feasibility of future potable reuse. The alternatives that were evaluated in the Potable
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-15
[Page 94]
CITY OF SANTA BARBA