[Page 0]
DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The El Porvenir WWTF is approximately 13 miles southwest of the City of San Joaquin and
17 miles south of Mendota in Fresno County. This WWTF serves the small unincorporated
community of El Porvenir/Three Rocks, which consists of about 56 residences. The WWTF
provides treatment of its wastewater consisting of four lined treatment ponds (two aerated ponds
and two settling ponds), which can be operated in series or parallel. After treatment, the effluent
[Page 1]
Fresno County Service Area #30 - 2 - 13 March 2019
El Porvenir WWTF
is discharged to an unlined disposal pond. In 2012 the disposal pond was divided in half by an
internal berm to provide for better management and maintenance of the pond.
The disposal capacity of the WWTF is approximately 44,000 gpd. However, current estimated
average daily flows to the WWTF are well below the capacity of the system at 13,700 gpd.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with the
terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all attachments, and
MRP 2014-0153-DWQ-R5305.
In accordance with Section B.1.a. of the General Order, treated wastewater discharged shall
not exceed 44,000 gpd as a monthly average. Per the requirements of the General Order,
discharges with flow rates greater than 20,000 gpd must be evaluated as described in
Attachment 1 of the General Order to determine if nitrogen effluent limits are required.
Based on the results of the nitrogen evaluation, as discussed in the attached memorandum,
a nitrogen effluent limit is not required at this time.
The General Order states in Section B.1.l that the Discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. This table summarizes different setback requirements for wastewater
system equipment, activities, land application areas, and storage and/or treatment ponds from
sensitive receptors and property lines where applicable. The Discharger shall comply with the
applicable setback requirements, as summarized in the following table:
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic Flowing Property
Well Stream1 Line
Impoundment (undisinfected
150 ft. 3 150 ft. 50 ft.
secondary recycled water) 2
1. A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water
elevation and indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soli character, vegetation type,
presence of litter or debris, or other appropriate means.
2. Undisinfected secondary recycled water is defined in California Code of Regulations, title 22, section
60301.900.
3. Setback established by California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60310(d).
The Discharger shall comply with all applicable sections in the General Order, including:
a. Aerobic Treatment Unit requirements specified in Section B.3 of the General Order; and
b. Pond system requirements specified in Section B.5 of the General Order.
As discussed in the attached memorandum, the Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake
Basin, Third Edition, revised May 2018 (Tulare Lake Basin Plan) includes more stringent
effluent limitations for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) for discharges of domestic
wastewater to land. Therefore, this NOA includes the effluent limitations required by the Tulare
Lake Basin Plan for BOD for advanced primary treatment.
[Page 2]
Fresno County Service Area #30 - 3 - 13 March 2019
El Porvenir WWTF
The Discharger shall not exceed the following effluent limitation for BOD (as specified in the
Tulare Lake Basin Plan):
Effluent Limitations for the Wastewater Treatment System1
Wastewater Pond of Trickling Filter (not including residential recirculating sand filters)
Constituent Units Limit
BOD mg/L 70 (monthly average2)
BOD denotes biochemical oxygen demand; TSS denotes total suspended solids.
1. The limitations included in this table apply to the treated effluent discharged to the
evaporation/percolation ponds (i.e., disposal ponds).
2. The monthly average concentration is the arithmetic mean of measurements recorded during a calendar
month. If only one sample is collected in a calendar month, then that sample measurement is the
monthly average concentration.
Failure to comply with the requirements in this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all
attachments, and MRP 2014-0153-DWQ-R5305 could result in an enforcement acti

===PLANNED CHANGES===

