[Page 68]
1. SRTTP
SRTTP headworks consists of mechanical bar screens, influent pump station wet well,
alum injection (only if needed to neutralize phosphorus), influent flow meter, fine drum
screens, grit collectors, and drain pump station (return streams from SRTTP’s buildings
and processes). As an added design enhancement, if the influent pump station should go
down for any reason, flow will automatically be diverted to the Lemon Grove Impoundment
Basins for containment to prevent a spill. Grit and debris from the headworks is washed to
remove organics, and then discharged to a roll-off container for disposal in the Marine
Corps Base Camp Pendleton (MCBCP) Landfill, along with the solids from the bar screens
and drum screens.
Effluent from the grit collectors and return streams flow to secondary treatment processes,
which consists of sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) and supplemental carbon injection
(only if needed).
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 69]
MARINE CORPS BASE, CAMP PENDLETON ORDER NO. R9-2013-0112
SOUTHERN REGIONAL TERTIARY TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109347
ADAVANCED WATER TREATMENT PLANT
Effluent from the SBRs flow to the one-million gallon flow equalization basin, filter feed
pumps (equalization basin pumps), and disk filters. Flow from the disk filters is sent to
Oceanside OO via the Oceanside Ocean Outfall Pump Station (OOOPS) or to the
disinfection contact basins for reclamation, depending on reclaimed water demands. If
there is insufficient capacity through the OOOPS and insufficient recycled water demand,
flow from the disk filters can also be sent to the Lemon Grove Recycle System and Lemon
Grove Impoundment (Basin 1 and 2). From the Lemon Grove Recycle System and Lemon
Grove Impoundment, the waste can be sent back to the disk filters or to the headworks.
MCBCP also utilizes the tertiary treated effluent from SRTTP for reclamation purposes
such as landscape irrigation. The recycled water is regulated under separate waste
discharge requirements, Order No. R9-2009-0021, Master Reclamation Permit for
Southern Regional Tertiary Treatment Plant, United States Marine Corps, Camp
Pendleton, San Diego County.
Waste activated sludge (WAS) is pumped from the SBR basins to either the WAS Holding
Tank or any of the aerobic digesters. Thickened sludge from the aerobic digesters can be
mixed with the WAS to obtain the proper concentration, prior to sludge thickening from the
gravity belt thickeners and aerobic digestion. For final disposal, the digested sludge will
then be pumped to centrifuges for dewatering. Dewatered solids are moved by a belt
conveyor to a truck/trailer and then transported to the Biosolids Storage Facility. From the
Biosolids Storage Facility, the waste is sent to appropriate disposal facilities.
2. AWT
The South Water System Iron/Manganese Water Treatment Plant 240162 (IM Plant 24) at
the MCBCP treats groundwater extracted from potable water supply source wells within
the Ysidor

===PLANNED CHANGES===

