[Page 99]
1. EWA - Encina Water Pollution Control Facility (EWPCF)
The EWPCF is located at 6200 Avenida Encinas in Carlsbad, California, approximately
one-third mile from the ocean near the mouth of Canyon de las Encinas.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the EWPCF consist of bar
screening, peroxide addition, grit removal, primary sedimentation, biological treatment
using activated sludge, and secondary clarification. The EWPCF also has disinfection
(chlorination) capabilities limited to the capacity necessary to disinfect secondary-treated
effluent currently reused onsite at the EWPCF. Solids treatment unit operations and
processes consist of dissolved air flotation (DAF) thickening, anaerobic digestion,
mechanical dewatering (centrifuges), and heat drying. According to the Certification of
the Design Capacity of the Existing Encina Water Pollution Control Facility, dated June
29, 2010 and included in the Discharger’s 2010 ROWD, “the design capacity of the
existing EWPCF is adequate to treat an average annual 40.5 MGD liquid and 43.3 MGD
solids flow.”
Up to 7 MGD of secondary-treated effluent is diverted to the CWRF, up to 1 MGD is
diverted to the

[Page 99]
2. Vallecitos Water District - Meadowlark Water Reclamation Plant (MWRP)
The MWRP is located at 7941 Corintia Street in Carlsbad, California, approximately 5.5
miles east of the EWPCF. The MWRP accepts raw wastewater from the Vallecitos Water
District’s sanitary sewer system. The MWRP is a “skimming” water reclamation facility
(i.e., the MWRP only “skims” or extracts enough raw wastewater needed for reclamation
purposes from the Vallecitos Water District’s sanitary sewer system). Wastewater not
skimmed by the MWRP flows to the EWPCF for treatment.
2 The GWRP is currently regulated by separate WDRs, Order No. R9-2004-0223, Waste Discharge Requirements
for Leucadia Wastewater District Forest R. Gafner Water Reclamation Plant San Diego County, adopted
September 8, 2004.
3 Secondary-treated effluent is used onsite at the EWPCF for the sand filter influent, heat drying process,
centrifuge centrate dilution water, hose down water, chemical batching, and balance seal water (up to1.3
MGD); for the cogeneration facility cooling (up to 1.5 MGD); for the odor reduction facilities (up to 1.8 MGD);
and for the DAF tanks (up to 2.2 MGD).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 100]
ENCINA WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2018-0059
ENCINA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107395
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the MWRP consist of inline
sewage grinding, grinding with augers, primary sedimentation, roughing filtration,
biological treatment using activated sludge, secondary clarification, tertiary filtration, and
chlorine disinfection.
The tertiary-treated wastewater from the MWRP distributed to reuse sites is currently
regulated by separate WDRs under Order No. R9-2007-0018.
Effluent that is not recycled, such as effluent not meeting CCR title 22 water recycling
requirements or excess tertiary-treated effluent, is conveyed through the Meadowlark
land outfall (also referred to as a failsafe outfall), which connects to the EOO

[Page 100]
3. Carlsbad Municipal Water District - Carlsbad Water Reclamation Facility (CWRF)
The CWRF is located at 6220 Avenida Encinas in Carlsbad, California, adjacent to the
EWPCF. The CWRF is a “skimming” water reclamation facility (i.e., the CWRF only
“skims” or extracts enough secondary-treated effluent needed for reclamation purposes
from the EWPCF). Since the adoption of the previous order (Order No. R9-2011-0019),
the CWRF production rate for recycled water increased from 4 MGD to 7 MGD.
Secondary-treated effluent not skimmed from the EWPCF for tertiary treatment is
discharged to the EOO.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the CWRF consist of continuous
backwash granulated media filtration, microfiltration or ultrafiltration (MF/UF), reverse
osmosis (RO) membrane filtration (typically bypassed), decarbonation (typically
bypassed), chlorine disinfection, and solids thickening. MF/UF backwash, along with
other backwash from other CWRF processes, is thickened and returned to the EWPCF
for treatment and disposal.
The tertiary-treated wastewater from the CWRF distributed to reuse sites is currently
regulated by separate WDRs under Order No. R9-2016-0183.
Up to 0.2 MGD of waste brine from the RO process at the CWRF may be discharged
directly to the ocean through the EOO or to the EWPCF’s aeration basins. Source water
that is not recycled, such as effluent not meeting CCR title 22 water recycling
requirements, is discharged to the EWPCF’s aeration basins. There were no reported
flows from the CWRF to the EOO during the term of previous order (Order No. R9-2011-
0019).
4. Leucadia Wastewater District - Gafner Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP)
The Leucadia Wastewater District (LWD), a member agency of the EWA, independently
owns and operates the GWRP located at 1960 La Costa Avenue in Leucadia, California,
approximately 3.5 miles southeast of t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

