[Page 110]
1. Fallbrook WRP
All wastewater entering the Fallbrook WRP is subjected to full tertiary treatment
consisting of preliminary treatment by mechanical bar screening and aerated grit
removal, primary sedimentation and scum removal, biological treatment using
activated sludge followed by secondary clarification, tertiary treatment consisting
of coagulation followed by single-media anthracite filter, and chlorine disinfection.
Dechlorination of chlorinated effluent is accomplished with sodium bisulfite
(NaHSO ).
3
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal are washed and
compacted prior to being hauled to a local landfill for disposal. Sludge from the
secondary treatment processes at the Fallbrook WRP is aerobically digested,
then dewatered by a centrifuge. Dewatered sludge is fed to a thermal dryer to
meet Class A biosolids requirements. Class A biosolids are utilized as fertilizer by
local farmers. If the dryer is inoperative, dewatered sludge (Class B biosolids) is
either sent to one of twelve drying beds for a minimum of three months, or to
hauling containers for disposal. The Discharger contracts with Denali Solid
Solutions for transporting Class B biosolids for land application in Yuma, Arizona.
During high flows or emergency operating or maintenance periods, a 1.2-million-
gallon (MG) secondary effluent equalization basin is available for temporary
storage. When this volume is exceeded, secondary effluent is discharged to the
Fallbrook Public Utility District’s 16-inch-diameter land outfall (Fallbrook Land
Outfall) at rates not exceeding the hydraulic capacity of the Fallbrook Land Outfall
of 3.6 MGD. Additionally, the Fallbrook WRP has a 1.0-MG recycled water
storage basin.
The Discharger currently provides

[Page 112]
The Santa Margarita GTP will be constructed on the same property as the
Fallbrook WRP. The FPUD WTP includes an equalization tank, pretreatment
oxidation with sodium hypochlorite, iron and manganese filters, sodium bisulfite
and anti-scalent to protect the reverse osmosis (RO) units, RO demineralization,
neutralization with sodium hydroxide, clearwell, sodium hypochlorite for primary
disinfection, ammonia hydroxide to form a chloramine residual in the pipeline.
The FPUD WTP will be connected to and controlled by the Discharger’s SCADA
system.
The iron and manganese filters are expected to remove 97% of the iron and
manganese in the system, reducing the effluent iron and manganese
concentrations to below 0.3 milligrams/liter (mg/L) and 0.05 mg/L, respectively.
Iron and manganese system reject streams will flow to reclaim tanks for solids
separation. The liquid will be decanted and returned to the start of the iron and
manganese filters for treatment. The remaining solids would be pumped to
existing sludge drying beds at the Fallbrook WRP. Decant from the drying beds
will be pumped to the Discharger’s sewage collection system and the remaining
dry solids will be removed for disposal at a landfill.
The feed water for the Santa Margarita GTP is expected to have relatively low
salinity based on water quality data from existing production wells in the Lower
Santa Margarita River Basin. Therefore, to maximize the RO treatment process
efficiency and achieve a product water with a total dissolved solids (TDS) of
500 mg/L, approximately 49% of the effluent from the iron and manganese filters
bypasses the sodium bisulfite, anti-scalent, RO units, and sodium hydroxide, and
blends with the RO permeate upstream of the clearwell.
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the concentrated flows (i.e., brine waste)
from the RO unit would be discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the OOO,
with a maximum flow of about 0.65 MGD and a TDS concentration of 6,567 mg/L.
In emails dated July 24 and 29, 2019, the Discharger stated that it plans to
discharge the brine waste to its Fallbrook WRP, chlorine contact basin wet well,
after the reclaimed water pump station/storage, but before the effluent monitoring
for the ocean outfall, however this is subject to change. The July 24 email also
states that the total flow from the Fallbrook WRP and Santa Margarita GTP to the
OOO will remain within the flow limitations contained in Order No. R9-2012-0004.
The maximum product water for the Santa Margarita GTP is

===PLANNED CHANGES===

