[Page 111]
2. Facility Description
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger produces up to 2.0 MGD of recycled water at the Facility, by
directing and treating a portion of the raw wastewater from the San Diego
Metropolitan Sewerage System. The raw wastewater is primarily residential and
commercial collected from the City of Santee, the City of El Cajon, and the
unincorporated community of Lakeside. The remaining raw wastewater continues
through the San Diego Metropolitan Sewerage System, operated by the City of San
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 112]
Padre Dam Municipal Water District Order No. R9-2022-0003
Ray Stoyer Water Recycling Facility NPDES No. CA0107492
Diego Public Utilities Department, for treatment and disposal under separate waste
discharge requirements.7
The treatment process at the Facility consists of primary sedimentation; a five-stage
Bardenpho process; secondary sedimentation; chemical phosphorus removal by
alum and polymer addition, flocculation, sedimentation; denitrifying filtration;
chlorine disinfection; dechlorination; a holding pond and lakes that serve to stabilize
the quality of the effluent discharge to Sycamore Creek by reducing the total
nitrogen concentrations. Biosolids and waste sludge from clarification are sent to
the San Diego Metropolitan Sewerage System for treatment and disposal.
Disinfected tertiary recycled water produced from the Facility is sent to the
Discharger’s recycled water distribution system and is used primarily for landscape
irrigation at use sites in the Santee and El Cajon Hydrologic subareas (HSAs). The
reuse of disinfected tertiary recycled water from the Facility is regul

[Page 112]
2005.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 113]
Padre Dam Municipal Water District Order No. R9-2022-0003
Ray Stoyer Water Recycling Facility NPDES No. CA0107492
constructed on the footprint of the preexisting ponds (see section 2.5 of this Fact
Sheet). The Santee Lakes consist of seven lakes with a total volume of 131.5 MG,
which flow in series beginning with Lake No. 7 and ending with Lake No.1. Lake No.
1 ultimately discharges to Sycamore Creek, a tributary to the San Diego River. Due
to the variable demand for tertiary effluent for use as irrigation water and due to
evaporation from the holding pond and lakes (approximately 12 percent of total
effluent for one year), flow from Lake No. 1 to Sycamore Creek varies from less
than 0.1 MGD to 2.1 MGD (approximately 35-36 percent of total effluent for one
year).
Between July 2015 and May 2021, a total volume of approximately 1,765 MG of
tertiary treated effluent (approximately 54 percent of tertiary treated effluent
produced) was discharged to the holding ponds and to Santee Lakes. During the
same time period, approximately 1,325 MG tertiary effluent (approximately 41
percent of effluent produced) was discharged to Sycamore Creek.
The Discharger applies algaecide and herbicide to the its holding pond and Santee
Lakes to control algae and weeds. The primary application is typically in the
summer, when there is typically minimal to no discharge from Lakes Nos. 1 and 2 to
Sycamore Creek at Monitoring Location EFF-001B. Monitoring results at Monitoring
location EFF-001B for the previous permit term were reported as non-detect or
detected, but not quantified (DNQ) for residual algaecide and herbic

===PLANNED CHANGES===

