[Page 94]
Water Reclamation Plant.
2.1.3. Treatment at the LAGWRP consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and
grit removal); primary treatment (primary sedimentation and scum removal);
secondary treatment (activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and
denitrification (NDN)); secondary sedimentation with coagulation; tertiary treatment
(aqua cloth and deep bed sand filtration); disinfection with ammonium hydroxide and
sodium hypochlorite; and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. Treated wastewater
discharged to the Los Angeles River is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered for
reuse is not dechlorinated.
2.1.4. Ammonium hydroxide and sodium hypochlorite are added to the treated effluent
after tertiary treatment and prior to entering the chlorine contact tanks to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in pipes. Prior to
discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual
chlorine.
2.1.5. In 2006, the Discharger constructed a biological nutrient removal system with
NDN in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The
system was completed and has been in operation since June 2007.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The LAGWRP discharges tertiary-treated wastewater to the Los Angeles River, a water
of the United States, upstream the Los Angeles River Estuary. Treated effluent is
discharged from the Facility to sur

[Page 97]
2. Nitrate and nitrate plus nitrite: The Discharger ran weekly sampling for nitrate and
nitrite. The maximum daily concentration exceeded the objective, but since the
Discharger collected multiple samples during the month, the average monthly
effluent limitation of 7.3 mg/L was not exceeded.
There were multiple monitoring and reporting requirement violations due to deficient
monitoring of multiple pollutants throughout the monitoring period. The Discharger
conducted corrective actions to prevent deficient monitoring violations including: (1)
providing additional staff training; (2) updating labels, sample checklists and the contract
laboratory chain-of-custody form; and (3) updating laboratory QA/QC protocols.
2.5.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Several physical alterations or additions to the Facility are proposed by the Permittee as
summarized in Table F-3 below.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 12/08/2022 F-8
[Page 98]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2022-0343
LOS ANGELES-GLENDALE WATER RELCAMATION PLANT NPDES NumberCA0053953
Table F-3. Summary of Capital Improvement Projects
Project Name Project Summary Start Date End Date
The primary processes currently do not incorporate
LAGWRP equalization. The LAGWRP Primary Effluent Equalization
Primary Storage project is in the works to add an equalization October
July 2026
Equalization function to the Facility. This project will provide 5 MG of 2022
Improvement storage capacity for the collection system, daily diurnal flow
attenuation, and treatment.
This project will provide a fully functional advanced water
purification demonstration facility (AWPDF) with a design
LAGWRP
capacity of 65 gallons per minute. The AWPDF will consist
Advanced
of ozone treatment followed by biological activated carbon
Water January March
filtration, microfiltration, reverse osmosis, advanced
Purification 2023 2026
oxidation process with ultraviolet treatment and sodium
Demonstration
hypochlorite. The treated water is proposed to be used in
Facility
noninteractive and interactive water features, and a non-
flow-through splash pad “spring” for public recreation.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this sectio