[Page 87]
1. Regional WWTP Secondary Treatment
As part of the Pure Water Monterey project, new sources of urban and agricultural land
runoff in surface water bodies, will be directed to the Regional WWTP headworks to
increase the supply of recycled water for agricultural irrigation after treatment by the
SVRP, and for landscape irrigation and groundwater replenishment after treatment
through the AWPF. The source waters are composed of agricultural wash water from the
City of Salinas, stormwater flows from the City of Salinas, stormwater and agricultural
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 88]
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER NO. R3-2018-0017
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES NO. CA0048551
runoff from Blanco Drain, and stormwater and agricultural runoff from the Reclamation
Ditch, which drains a series of natural lakes through lateral ditches and pumps. The new
source waters will be mixed with existing domestic sewage (including storm water, dry
season urban runoff, and industrial wastewater) from the member agencies.
The Facility currently accepts 30,000 to 50,000 gallons per day (gpd) of saline wastes by
truck from business entities that would otherwise be discharging to the sanitary sewer
system. Such wastewaters include softener regenerant wastes and reverse osmosis
(RO) concentrate, which are now trucked to the Regional WWTP instead of being
discharged to the collection system. Because irrigation uses of recycled wastewater are
sensitive to elevated levels of salts, the Discharger segregates these high-salt
wastewaters from the rest of the influent flow to the Regional WWTP. These hauled
saline wastes are held in a 375,000-gallon (approximate) lined pond and mixed with
secondary effluent at the Regional WWTP. These hauled saline wastes are
ultimately discharged with secondary effluent to the Pacific Ocean through Discharge
Point 001.
Wastewater treatment at the Regional WWTP includes screening, aerated grit removal,
primary sedimentation, secondary treatment through trickling filters, solids contact (i.e.,
bio-flocculation), and secondary clarification. Undisinfected secondary clarifier effluent is
discharged through Discharge Point 001. Sludge/biosolids are anaerobically digested
and sent to two screw presses. The holding lagoons and some of the drying beds may
still be utilized in emergency situations. Dried solids are then hauled to the Monterey
Regional Waste Management District’s landfill in Marina, California, adjacent to the
Regional WWTP, where they are used for daily cover.
2. Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF)
The AWPF will receive secondary effluent from the Regional WWTP and will provide full
advanced treatment including ozone, membrane filtration, RO, advanced oxidation using
ultraviolet light and hydrogen peroxide, and finished water stabilization. The AWPF is
designed to produce 5 MGD of recycled water for groundwater injection in the Seaside
basin and urban landscape irrigation by Marina Coast Water District. The RO
concentrate will be mixed with hauled saline waste and secondary effluent (when
available) from the Regional WWTP and discharged at Discharge Point 001. Membrane
backwash produced by the AWPF will be sent to the Regional WWTP headworks for
treatment. This Order addresses the discharge of AWPF RO concentrate with hauled
saline waste and secondary effluent at Discharge Point 001. The groundwater injection
operations of the AWPF are governed by WDRs-WRRs Order No. R3-2017-0003.
3. Salinas Valley Reclamation Project (SVRP)
The SVRP is a tertiary treatment plant adjacent to the Regional WWTP that receives
secondary effluent from the Regional WWTP and provides recycled water for irrigation of
12,000 acres of farmland in the northern Salinas Valley. The SVRP provides tertiary
treatment (through coagulation, flocculation, filtration, and disinfection) of secondary
effluent for design flows of up to 29.6 MGD. The SVRP holds tertiary treated wastewater
in an 80-acre-foot storage pond before it is distributed to farmland by the Castroville
Seawater Intrusion Project. Production of disinfected tertiary recycled water at the SVRP
portion of the Regional WWTP is governed by this Order. The SVRP does not contribute
any wastewater to Discharge Point 001. The use of recycled water for irrigation is
regulated via separate water recycling requirements.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 89]
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER NO. R3-2018-0017
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES NO. CA0048551
4. Flows
The new source waters will result in additional influent flow to the WWTP and the
addition of the AWPF will increase the recycling capacity. At the peak operating capacity,
the AWPF will receive approximately 6.85 MGD of secondary effluent as source water (of
that 0.68 MGD will be returned to the headworks as filter backwash) and will achieve
approximately 73 percent overall recovery to produce 5 MGD of recycled water for
irrigation and groundwater injection. The RO concentrate waste component will result in
an additional flow of up to 1.17 MGD to Discharge Point 001. If the secondary effluent is
produced at the permitted flow of 29.6 MGD, 6.85 MGD of this becomes influent to the
AWPF, and 0.68 MGD of the AWPF influent is returned to the WWTP headworks, a
maximum of 23.4 MGD of secondary effluent remains available for delivery to the SVRP
or blending with RO concentrate through Discharge Point 001. The total discharge flow
through Discharge Point 001 will not exceed the permitted flows of 29.6 MGD (ADWF)
and 75.6 MGD (PWWF). Table F-2 lists the predicted flows from the WWTP and the
AWPF.
Table F-2. Flows Contributing to Discharge Point 001
Ocea

===PLANNED CHANGES===

