[Page 56]
1. Facility Background. The Discharger owns and operates the Plant and its associated wastewater
collection system, consisting of 33 miles of gravity sewer lines, 5 miles of forcemain, and 22 pump
stations. There are no satellite collection systems. The Plant, located in Tiburon, provides
secondary treatment of domestic and commercial wastewater for the Town of Tiburon, City of
Belvedere, and a small unincorporated area of the Tiburon Peninsula around the treatment plant.
The service area population is approximately 8,400. The Plant has a dry weather design capacity of
0.98 MGD and can treat up to 2.3 MGD during wet weather (based on the design capacity of the
secondary treatment system). From January 2010 through December 2012, the average annual flow
was 0.63 MGD, with a maximum daily flow rate of 2.56 MGD. Attachment B provides a map of
the area around the Facility.
2. Treatment Description. Wastewater treatment at the Plant includes raw influent grinding (three
grinders), primary sedimentation (two dry weather primary clarifiers and one extra clarifier used
during wet weather), activated sludge biological treatment (two aeration basins), secondary
clarification (two secondary clarifiers), sodium hypochlorite disinfection, and sodium bisulfite
dechlorination. Treated effluent is combined with Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin effluent
before discharge. Attachment C provides a treatment process schematic diagram.
The Plant has a wet weather treatment capacity of 2.3 MGD. During periods of heavy rain
(generally greater than one inch) when the influent flow exceeds 2.3 MGD, the extra 110,000-
gallon primary clarifier (capable of sustaining flows of up to 4.4 MGD for three hours of peak
flow) is used as a temporary holding tank to retain excess influent flows before they are routed to
the headworks for treatment. During sustained significant rain, when onsite storage is maximized
and influent flows are above 2.3 MGD, the Discharger diverts and blends any portion of the
primary-treated flow above 2.3 MGD with secondary-treated effluent to prevent washout of the
microbial populations in the secondary treatment system. This blended effluent is then chlorinated
and dechlorinated prior to discharge.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 57]
SANITARY DISTRICT No. 5 OF MARIN COUNTY ORDER No. R2-2013-0027
NPDES No. CA0037753
3. Biosolids Management. Solids collected from the Plant are thickened, anaerobically-digested, and
dewatered by a screw press. The Plant generates an average of 86.2 dry metric tons of biosolids per
year, which are disposed of at the Redwood Sanitary Landfill in Novato.
4. Stormwater. All stormwater originating within the Plant area is directed to the Plant’s headworks
and treated with the wastewater.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Facility discharges treated effluent to Raccoon Strait in Central San Francisco Bay through a
36-inch outfall with a 195-foot, 60-port diffuser, 850 feet (including the diffuser) offshore at a depth of
84 feet below mean sea level. The Discharger shares the outfall with the Sewerage Agency of Southern
Marin Wastewater Tr

===PLANNED CHANGES===

