[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment plant that provides sewerage
service to the communities of the City of Morro Bay and Cayucos Sanitary District, serving
approximately 12,835 people. All wastewater goes through primary treatment, including
screening, grit removal, and primary sedimentation. A portion of the flow is diverted for
secondary treatment process using biofilters, a solids-contact chamber, and a secondary
clarifier. The secondary process also includes parallel single-stage, high-rate, trickling filters
whose combined outflow goes to a solids contact channel and finally on to a secondary
sedimentation tank. When flows exceed 1 MGD, secondary-treated effluent can be blended
with primary treated effluent, and the blend is chlorinated and dechlorinated before discharge.
This blending process will be discontinued as part of the planned new Facility, and all flows
will meet at least full secondary treatment standards.
Biosolids removed by the primary clarifiers is heated in two mixed-primary digesters then
transferred to a secondary digester. Stabilized sludge from the secondary digester is
transferred to one of 12 sludge-drying beds. Drying times range from two to four months, and
once dried, biosolids are removed from the beds and stored in a concrete containment area.
Biosolids are stored in this area, usually for less than a year, until they are removed from the
WWTP for composting and eventual use as a soil amendment.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Wastewater is discharged to the Pacific Ocean through a 170-foot outfall/diffuser system. The
outfall is 27 inches in diameter and is 2,900 feet from shore under approximately 50 feet of
water. The diffuser was modeled to achieve a minimum initial dilution s of 133 to 1. The zone
of initial dilution is approximately 103 feet wide and 240 feet long.
Table F-2. Outfall Location
Effluent Discharge Point Discharge Point
Discharge Point Receiving Water
Description Latitude Longitude
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 74]
CITY OF MORRO BAY AND CAYUCOS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2017-0050
MORRO BAY/CAYUCOS WWTP NPDES NO. CA0047881
Municipal Estero Bay,
001 35° 23’ 11”N 120° 52’ 29”W
Wastewater Pacific Ocean
C. Regulatory History
The treatment plant was originally constructed in 1954 to provide primary treatment and was
upgraded in 1964 to a capacity of 1.0 MGD. In 1982, the outfall was extended further offshore
to its current location. A new treatment plant was designed in 1981 to expand treatment
capacity and meet full secondary treatment standards. However, financial aid from state and
federal agencies and sufficient alternative funding was not available. Consequently, the
treatment plant’s design was modified to provide biological treatment to a portion of the
influent (approximately 1 MGD), of the projected flow. In March 1983, Central Coast Water
Board staff tentatively concurred that such a discharge would comply with applicable state
laws, including water quality standards, and would not result in requirements for additional
treatment, pollution control, or other requirements on any other point or non-point sources.
The treatment plant was upgraded from 1983 to 1985 to a peak seasonal dry weather flow of
2.36 MGD. In 1985, U.S. EPA approved a Clean Water Act section 301(h) modified NPDES
permit that waived fully secondary treatment requirements for biochemical oxygen demand
(5-day @ 20°C) (BOD5) and total suspended solids (TSS). The permit required 75% removal
of TSS and included a 30-day average TSS effluent limit of 70 mg/L. The permit required 30%
removal of BOD5 and included a 30-day average BOD5 effluent limit of 120 mg/L. The permit
also required an extensive monitoring program.
The permit was reissued in 1992 and the

[Page 75]
secondary treatment standards by
June 23, 2015. The Discharger accepted the 9.5-year timeline and formally proposed it to
Central Coast Water Board staff on June 15, 2005. Central Coast Water Board staff and the
Discharger drafted a tentative settlement agreement that enforces the 9.5-year timeline, and
provided for one more 301(h) modified permit. This 301(h) modified permit is necessary
because the timeline to achieve compliance with secondary treatment standards exceeds the
five-year life of an NPDES permit.
Prior to the May 11, 2006 meeting to present the modified 301(h) waiver NPDES permit,
Central Coast Water Board staff and the Discharger entered into a revised settlement
agreement that expedited the conversion schedule to 8.5 years. The Central Coast Water
Board had questions regarding the potential effects of continued discharges from the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger will begin construction on a new wastewater treatment plant within this permit
term. However, the Discharger points out that the current wastewater treatment facility will
need to remain in service and continue operations and that significant improvement is
required to maintain compliance. The Discharger has thus adopted a Major Repair and
Maintenance Plan (MMRP) schedule to ensure compliance is maintained. The draft MMRP
schedule provided in the Discharger’s Report of Waste Discharge provided projected
maintenance and improvement projects from fiscal year 2013 through 2018. The adopted
budgets contain maintenance and improvement projects including the installation of new
influent screens at the headworks, replacement of chains and flights in the chlorine contact
tank, cleaning and repairs to a digester, pump and valve rebuild and replacement project, and
the rehabilitation of the chlorine building. These projects have been partially completed, or are
scheduled to be completed.
Since the time the Discharger originally applied for Order renewal, there have been significant
changes in their planning for future treatment facilities to address the need for full secondary
treatment, pursuant to the S