[Page 56]
2. Collection System. The Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District collection system consists of
approximately 68 miles of gravity sewer mains (12 inches in diameter or greater), 15 miles of
pressure sewer mains, and 12 pump stations. The plant also treats wastewater from three
satellite collections systems, consisting of sewer lines less than 12 inches in diameter, owned
and maintained by the City of Fairfield, Suisun City, and Travis Air Force Base.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides treatment consisting of preliminary influent
screening and grit removal, primary clarification, optional fixed film roughing filters and
intermediate clarification, biological activated sludge, secondary clarification, temporary
activated sludge effluent storage in flow balancing reservoirs (total volume 12.7 million
gallons [MG]), advanced secondary dual-media filtration, and ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection. The plant also has wet weather facilities, including a 111-million-gallon (MG)
equalization storage basin with optional comminution. The plant is designed to provide
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 57]
Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District Order No. R2-2020-0012
Fairfield-Suisun Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0038024
containment and advanced secondary treatment of wastewater flows up to the 20-year storm
event.
Influent wastewater is pumped to the plant headworks from four pump stations, each with a
magnetic flow meter. The combined inflow is measured by Parshall flumes downstream of
influent screening. Plant inflow contains a small contribution from plant recycle water.
Disinfected effluent is conveyed from the UV disinfection facility to Discharge Point
No. 001 (and Discharge Point No. 005, when needed) or to one of three earthen final effluent
holding ponds with a total volume of 20.4 MG. The plant may discharge a blend of stored
water from the reservoirs and treated wastewater from the UV disinfection facility.
The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 23.7 MGD and a peak wet weather capacity
of 52.9 MGD. From May 2015 through February 2019, the plant treated a daily dry weather
average of 10.5 MGD, with the highest reported average wet weather flow being 36.7 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity belt
thickeners for waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and screw
presses for dewatering. The digested and dewatered biosolids are delivered to Lystek’s
Organic Materials Recovery Center for further treatment and sale as a Class A-EQ
biofertilizer product.
5. Stormwater Management. Stormwater originating on the plant’s grounds is directed offsite
and permitted under the statewide Industrial Storm Water Permit (NPDES General Permit
No. CAS000001).
6. Recycled Water. The Discharger rec

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to rehabilitate its digesters to improve the reliability of the anaerobic
digestion system by 2025. It also will begin an electrical equipment upgrade in 2020. These
changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this
Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion here
does not imply Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain
necessary permits or permit modificatio