[Page 1]
Gold Mtn. CSD
The Gold Mtn. CSD is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment
system for the subdivision at Gold Mountain Ranch and the Grizzly Golf Course. The planned community
development was originally designed for 427 residential units, a golf course w/clubhouse and a small
commercial district; with an estimated 100,000 Gallon per day (gpd) discharge. After 16 years of
operation, only 90 homes, a golf course w/clubhouse, a hotel and recreation center have been
constructed at the facility.
The Discharger currently has an average daily discharge of 9,000 gpd, of domestic wastewater to a
septic tank effluent pump (STEP) system for wastewater collection. The community system consists of
individual septic tanks with pump chambers and submersible pumps discharging to a dosing tank and
then to one or both of two common leachfields, with a third leachfield proposed to be brought online in
the near future.
This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section
15301 which applies to ongoing or existing projects
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the terms and
conditions of this NOA and the General Order 2014-0153-DWQ-R5253, with all attachments.
The Discharger will phase in wastewater treatment expansion as the influent flow increases during build
out. The initial Phase l, as it exists today, consists of subsurface disposal from individual septic tanks to
two community leachfields. However, due to shallow groundwater and poor soil conditions Phase ll
(discharge > 33,000 gpd) purposes the installation of a recirculating sand filter (or equivalent) between
the septic tanks and leachfields, and Phase lll (discharge > 66,000 gpd) will involve the construction of
an advanced secondary package treatment plant with sufficient effluent quality to be used as reclaimed
water for possible golf course irrigation.
The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements form Table 3, for which the
Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic Flowing Ephemeral Stream Property Lake or
Well Stream a Drainage b Line Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit, 150 ft. y 50 ft. C 50 ft. 5 ft. c, z N/A
Treatment System,
or Collection System e
Leach Field f 100 ft. o, c 100 ft. c 50 ft. 5 ft. c N/A
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water elevation and
indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character, vegetation type, presence of litter or debris, or
other appropriate means.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow-melt and does
not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface water. The drainage shall
be measured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark (described in “a” above). Irrigation canals
are not considered ephemeral streams drainage features. The ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging
surface water to groundwater) at the proposed wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K-1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment located below
ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
[Page 2]
Ivan Gossage - 3 - 17 November 2017
Gold Mtn. CSD
f Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
o California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site-specific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an increased
setback. See discussion in Well Standards.
y Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.6.
z Collection system to property line setback is not applicabl

[Page 4]
Wind Song
Leachfield
N
Proposed
expansion
Falling Waters Leachfield &
Monitoring
Leachfield
Wells
DRAWING REFERENCE: FACILITY MAP
GOOGLE EARTH
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
MAP DATA: © 2016 GOOGLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
NO SCALE
PLUMAS COUNTY
[Page 5]
TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM
TO: George Low, PG FROM: Ron Falkowski
Senior Engineering Geologist Engineering Geologist
DATE: 17 November 2017 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski
SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR GOLD MOUNTAIN
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT, WDR ORDER 96-263, PLUMAS COUNTY
I have reviewed the case file for Gold Mountain Community Services District (Gold Mtn.
CSD) and completed a site inspection on 22 August 2017. The file documents and site
inspection confirms the general condition of the wastewater treatment system and
subsurface disposal fields. The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance documentation
and all treatment and collection infrastructure appears in good order.
The average daily wastewater flow is less than 9,000 gallons per day. The treatment system
has a design capacity which is well above the discharge volume required by the existing
community.
Potential Threats to Water Quality
The wastewater treatment system is located southwest of the main community of Portola.
The closest distance from the subsurface discharge fields (leachfields) to the nearest
property line is greater than 50 feet. The closest potable water well is greater than 500 feet
from the leachfields. The closest surface water is greater than 500 feet from the leachfields.
A monitoring well network was installed at the site due to high groundwater, poor soil
conditions and its proximity to Middle Fork Feather River. Completion of the Nitrate Checklist
in Attachment 1 of Order 2014-0153-DWQ indicates the following flow and rationale:
A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow generally less than 9,000 gpd.
Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.
Monitoring Requirements
To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, quarterly groundwater monitoring and annual inspections of the septic
tank. Quarterly monitoring will be reported by the first day of the second month after the
quarter ends (e.g. January-March report is due by May 1st). Annual monitoring will be
included with the fourth quarter monitoring.
[Page 6]
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014-0153-DWQ-R5253
FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
GOLD MOU

===PLANNED CHANGES===

