[Page 1]
EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Gold Run Rest Area WWTF is owned and operated by Caltrans (hereafter “Discharger”) and is
located on Interstate 80 near the town of Gold Run in Placer County as shown on Attachment A,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. Gold Run Rest Area is
located in an area without a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, wastewater is
collected and treated on-site. The site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto
and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The WWTF services eastbound and westbound traffic that stop at the rest area. Wastewater is
generated from domestic use such as toilets and handwashing. Wastewater flows by gravity to two
21,300 gallon septic tanks, one installed for each the eastbound and westbound rest areas.
Currently, wastewater from the septic tanks is pumped either to a stabilization pond or to a
leachfield, which are both located on the westbound rest area property. Wastewater is discharged
to the leachfield during the winter months. Effluent from the stabilization pond is chlorine
disinfected and discharged to a sprayfield for the remainder of the year. The Discharger proposes
to backfill the stabilization pond and decommission the leachfield and sprayfield.
FACILITY CHANGES
By the end of Fall 2018, the Discharger plans to complete construction of a new wastewater
treatment system that consists of two lift stations with two grinder pumps each, a primary treatment
pond, and two disposal ponds. During construction, the stabilization pond may be used to up until
the new pond system is ready to accept wastewater or the rest stop facilities may be closed so that
no wastewater is generated.
A lift station with grinder pumps will be constructed for each the eastbound and westbound side of
the rest area. The septic tanks will remain in place and be used for emergency overflow protection
in case of pump failure. Wastewater will gravity flow to the lift stations and the generated slurry will
be pumped to Pond 1 for treatment. Pond 1 serves as an aeration treatment pond and will be lined
with a 60-mil high density polyethylene (HDPE) liner. Treated wastewater will be conveyed by
gravity flow to either Pond 2 or 3 for disposal, which will occur via evaporation and percolation.
The side berms of Pond 2 and 3 will be lined with a 60-mil HDPE liner to prevent seepage and
maintain berm stability.
To characterize the depth to shallow groundwater and flow direction, the Discharger installed five
groundwater monitoring wells (MW-1, MW-2, MW-5, MW-6, and MW-7) in March and November
2015 near the proposed area of the new ponds. Based on available monitoring data, the
downgradient direction of groundwater is to the northeast with a gradient of 0.036 feet per foot.
Depth to groundwater ranged from 3 feet to 20 feet below ground surface and groundwater
elevations vary seasonally. On 23 April 2015, the Discharger sampled MW-1 and MW-2 to
determine groundwater quality. The results indicate chloride ranges from 13 mg/L to 160 mg/L,
total dissolved solids range from 190 mg/L to 490 mg/L, and nitrate as nitrogen ranges from less
than 0.5 mg/L to 13 mg/L.
As a result of the shallow groundwater depth, all three ponds will be constructed with the base of
the pond at 3,100 feet mean sea level (i.e., at grade) to maintain approximately 3 feet of separation
to shallow groundwater. The ponds will be constructed with an approximate surface area of 0.7 to
0.8 acres and a depth of 8 feet. With 2 feet of freeboard, each pond will have a wastewater
capacity between 4.2 to 4.8 acre-feet.
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITS
Note that the General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
treatment systems as well as those that only apply to specific treatment and/or disposal systems.
[Page 2]
Stanley Richins - 3 - 9 January 2017
Caltrans Gold Run Rest Area
The specific requirements and effluent limits for the existing treatment system and planned
treatment system are summarized below. Once the planned treatment system is operational and
the existing system has been decommissioned, you may request that this NOA be revised.
The wastewater treatment operator must be certified and familiar with the requirements contained
in the General Order, this NOA, and the MRP.
Requirements by Wastewater System Type, Section B of General Order
B.1 All Wastewater Systems
This applies in its entirety to the Gold Run Rest Area WWTF with the following site specific
requirements.
B.1.a Influent flow limits.
Treatment Unit Flow Limit as Monthly Average
Stabilization Pond1 10,000 gpd
Pond 12 10,000 gpd
1 In operation until the completion of the new wastewater treatment system.
2 In operation once the new wastewater treatment system is completed.
B.1.l Wastewater system setbacks.
Ephemeral
Domestic Flowing Property Lake or
Equipment or Activity Stream
Well Stream Line Reservoir
Drainage
Collection System,
Septic Tanks, and 150 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
Dosing Tanks 1
Ponds 2 150 ft. 120 ft.3 20 ft.3 50 ft. 200 ft.
1 Setbacks from “Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection
System” in Table 3 of General Order. Setbacks apply to the collection system, septic tanks,
and lift stations.
2 Setbacks from “Impoundment (undisinfected secondary recycled water) under Wastewater
Storage and/or Treatment Ponds in Table 3 of General Order. Setbacks apply to the
Stabilization Pond and Ponds 1, 2, and 3.
3 Setbacks reduced based on information provided in a 24 October 2016 technical report
submitted by the Discharger to accommodate the construction of the new treatment pond
system. Because Pond 1 will be fully lined and the berms of Ponds 2 and 3 will be lined,
the reduced setbacks are expected to be protective of water quality.
B.2 Septic Systems
The current and planned WWTF will utilize septic tanks; therefore this section applies in its
entirety until the septic tanks are repurposed as emergency overflow holding tanks.
B.5 Pond Systems
The current and planned WWTF will utilize a pond treatment system; therefore this section
applies in its entirety.
B.6 Subsurface Disposal Systems
The existing WWTF utilizes a leachfield disposal system; therefore this section applies in its
entirety until the leachfield is decomissioned.
B.7 Land Application and/or Recycled Water Systems
The existing WWTF utilizes a sprayfield land application system; therefore this section applies
in its entirety until the sprayfield is decomissioned.
[Page 3]
Stanley Richins - 4 - 9 January 2017
Caltrans Gold Run Rest Area
Effluent Limitations, Section D of General Order
This section applies in its entirety to the Gold Run Rest Area WWTF and shall include the
following site specific limitations.
Stabilization Pond and Pond 1 Effluent Limitations
The following limits apply to effluent from the Stabilization Pond until it is decommissioned
and to Pond 1 once the new WWTF system is operational.
Constituent Units Limit
BOD mg/L 90
Effluent Limit Rationale
The pond treatment system is subject to technology performance effluent limits for
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) as specified in the General Order.
Staff evaluated the need for a total nitrogen effluent limit using the method contained in the
General Order and determined that a nitrogen effluent limit is not necessary because the
monthly average flow will be less than 20,000 gpd, treatment Pond 1 will be lined, and all
ponds are being constructed to maintain a minimum of 3 feet separation from groundwater.
Technical Report Preparation Requirements, Provisions Section E.1 of General Order
The following technical reports shall be submitted as described below:
1. By 3 April 2017, the Discharger shall submit a Spill Prevention and Emergency Response
Plan (Response Plan) consistent with the requirements of General Order P

===PLANNED CHANGES===

