[Page 107]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment. The treatment plant provides
treatment by a split stream process of physical and biological treatment. All wastewater
flows through primary sedimentation basins. Approximately 4.38 MGD flows through
secondary treatment facilities, including biofiltration, solids-contact, and secondary
clarification. Flows above 4.38 MGD receive primary treatment and are blended with
secondary-treated wastewater prior to disinfection by chlorination, and then
dechlorinated before discharge to the Pacific Ocean.
The Discharger has submitted initial design documents for the facility upgrade. The
Discharger will upgrade the plant to a full secondary treatment plant by the end of 2014.
The

[Page 110]
Water Board can enforce the milestones by seeking penalties in an agreed-upon
amount, or by asking a court to order the District to meet the schedule.
The settlement agreement stipulates that the Regional Water Board will concur in or
issue the First and Second 5-Year Permits in order to effect the District’s obligation to
complete the upgrade of its treatment facility to full secondary treatment standards
within a ten-year period. This permit is the second 5-year permit in the ten year time
period. Once the Discharger has converted to secondary treatment of effluent from the
Plant, the Regional Water Board expects to issue an NPDES permit imposing effluent
limitations based on secondary treatment as defined in 40 C.F.R. Part 133, or any more
stringent requirements the Regional Water Board determines are necessary to comply
with State or Federal law.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 111]
GOLETA SANITARY DISTRICT WWTP ORDER NO. R3-2010-0012
NPDES NO. CA0048160
The Discharger is in compliance with all conversion schedule milestones with the
exception of the CEQA documentation. Regional Wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgraded facility will utilize the existing biofilter and will include a new
biofilter, activated sludge aeration basin and two new secondary clarifiers. The facility
will be designed to treat all wastewater to secondary effluent standards.
Biosolids are treated in three heated anaerobic digesters. Biosolids from the digesters
are discharged into stabilization basins for settling. Once stabilized the biosolids are
either sent to drying beds or dewatered through a belt filter press. As part of facility
upgrades the Discharger will construct a new solids handling building to house
mechanical thickeners, polymer storage, and a screw press to process waste activated
sludge.
The collection system is regulated under General Permit 2006-0003-DWQ.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 108]
GOLETA SANITARY DISTRICT WWTP ORDER NO. R3-2010-0012
NPDES NO. CA0048160
B. Effluent Characteristics. According to the most recent annual monitoring report
(2008) effluent has the following characteristics.
Table F-2. Effluent Characteristics for Conve