[Page 77]
• Primary screening
• Primary settling
• Equalization tanks
• Moving bed bioreactor (MBBR)
• Subsurface wetlands
• Tertiary Filtration
• Ozonation
• UV disinfection
• Granular activated carbon
• Chlorination
 Primary screening is provided through a rotary drum screen with an opening of 3 millimeters and includes a self -washings and compacting mechanism. Solids from the
screens are compacted, bagged and collected in a roll -off bin to be hauled offsite.
Screened effluent is pumped to the two primary settling tanks.
 The settling tanks are coned bottom tanks with a capacity of 13,000 gallons each to
provide 7.3 hours of settling time at daily average flow conditions. Settled solids collected are periodically pumped out and hauled offsite via a septic hauling service on an as needed basis. Effluent from the settling tanks flows into six 10,000 gallons
equalization tanks that provide detention for nearly a full peak day of onsite generated wastewater. The equalization tanks also allow for a slower rate of discharge and consistent flow to the MBBR treatment process.

[Page 78]
Ms. Margaret Monahan - 3 - December 22, 2021
The MBBR p rocess includes th e following zones:

• Pre-Anoxic Zone – Removal of nitrogen via denitrification. Bio- media within this
zone (40% fill) allow for a large amount of biomass for treatment.
• BOD Treatment Zone – Removal of BOD. Media within this zone (30% fill) allow
for a large amount of biomass for treatment. The zone is aerated and mixed by
an air supply blower to maintain the dissolved oxygen level above 2.0 mg/L.
• Nitrification Zones – Removal of nitrogen and conversion of ammonia- N to
nitrate -N via nitrification. Bio -media w ithin this zone (50% fill) allow for a large
amount of biomass for treatment. The zone is aerated and mixed by an air supply
blower. A recycle pump returns a portion of the nitrified effluent to the beginning of the treatment process or pre- anoxic zone for denitrification of the nitrogen to
minimize alkalinity addition requirements.
• Clarification Zone – Separation of solids from the treated stream and settling via
gravity. Waste activated sludge solids from the clarified zone are pumped to a
sludge holding tanks and hauled off -site on an as needed basis.

Effluent from the MBBR is pumped to the horizontal flow subsurface wetland for final denitrification. The maximum media depth is set to 30 inches to ensure plant roots can penetrate the entire bed. The wetl and beds were designed with excess free board and
the liner is extended above the top of the gravel bed such that the 100- yr rain event is
contained in the wetland cells. A wetland effluent lift station located in the site pumps the flow back to the CUP for further treatment.
 To meet the tertiary filtration requirement, effluent from the subsurface wetland is filtered through the Schreiber Fuzzy Filter compressible media filter (CMF). The CMF
consists of quasi -spherical, synthetic filter -media made of poly phenylene sulphide. Each
fiber ball is approximately 1.5- inches in diameter. The filter w as conditionally approved
by the Division on February 24, 2003. The approval was amended on July 14, 2011 to accept the increased filtration rate of 40 gpm/ft
2 for the 1.5- inch diameter fiber ball . With
2.25 ft2 of surface area, the CMF installed at Google can treat up to 90 gpm. As a
condition of approval, the pretreatment processes must be operated to ensure that the turbidity of the influent to the filter does not exceed 10 NTU more than five percent of
the time within a 24- hour period and never exceed 15 NTU. To comply with this
condition, turbidity of the influent to the filter is continuously analyzed using an online
turbidimet er. An alarm is activated and the operator is notified to take corrective actions
if the i

[Page 79]
Ms. Margaret Monahan - 4 - December 22, 2021
To meet the disinfection requirement, effluent from the ozone system is pumped
through the in- line UV system – Aquionics In- line 400+. The Aquionics In- line 400+ UV
disinfection system was conditionally accepted by the Division on October 15, 2008 with
revisions to the acceptance conditions noted in a letter dated February 19, 2015. Daily coliform samples will be collected downstream of the UV system , prior to the granular
activate carbon (GAC) bed and chlorine injection point, to verify compliance with the Title 22 disinfection requirement. In lieu of an onsite bioassay , the UV system will b e
operated with two UV reactors in series, each to deliver a minimum UV dose of 100 mJ/cm
2, such that the water receives a minimum UV dose of 200 mJ/cm2 at all times.
 The filtered and disinfected recycled water then flows through a granular activated carbon bed to remove trace organics that could have potentially entered the wastewater
piping system from nearby groundwater plumes . The water is then disinfected with an
aqueous 12.5 percent sodium hypochlorite solution to prevent biological gr owth within
the distribution system. The treated recycled water is stored within the 60,000 gallons
blend tank.

In the event of a failure of the recycled water treatment system, potable water from the
NASA distribution system can fill the blend tank via an air gap to supply flush fixtures
and makeup water the cooling tower. The blend tank also stores treated storm water
that is collected throughout the site and treated through an ultrafiltration membrane
system, ozonation, and UV disinfection.
 Operating conditions and monitoring requirements are not established and treatment
credit is not granted for the ozone, GAC, chlorine injection and storm water treatment
systems for compliance with Title 22.
Treatment Reliability Features

[Page 81]
8. The surface loading rate onto the Schreiber Fuzzy Filter compressible media
filter must not exceed 40 gpm/ft2.

9. The maximum flow rate through the Schreiber Fuzzy Filter compressible media filter must not exceed 90 gpm.

10. The filter bed must be comprised of at least 30- inches of uncompressed filter
media.

11. Pretreatment processes must be operated to ensure that the turbidity of the influent to the filter does not exceed 10 NTU more than five percent of the time within a 24- hour period and never exceed 15 NTU.

Ultraviolet Disinfection

12. In lieu of a spot check bioassay, the ultraviolet light (UV) system must be operated with two Aquionics In- line 400+ UV reactors in series, each to deliver a
minimum UV dose of 100 mJ/cm
2, such that the water receives a minimum UV
dose of 200 mJ/cm2 at all times.
13. On-line monitoring of UV intensity, flow, UVT, and power must be provided at all
times.
14. Flow meters, UV intensity sensors, and UVT monitors must be properly calibrated to ensure proper disinfection.
15. At least monthly, all duty UV intensity sensors must be checked for calibration against a reference UV intensity sensor.
16. For all UV intensity sensors in use, the ratio of the duty UV sensor intensity to the reference UV sensor int ensity must be less than or equal to 1.2. If the calibration
ratio is >1.2, the failed duty UV sensor must be replaced by a properly calibrated sensor and reca

===PLANNED CHANGES===

