[Page 33]
2. Operations and Maintenance Manual – In addition to the required components
specified in Standard Provisions7 A.12 and A.28 (and any updates to the
Standard Provisions) and General Permit section VI.A.2, the Operations and
Maintenance Manual must contain the following components. Each component
must contain an implementation schedule and identification of adequate funding
to implement the component.
i. Sampling and Analysis Plan – The City of Guadalupe’s Operation and
Maintenance Manual must contain a sampling and analysis plan that
meets the requirements specified herein. Anyone performing sampling on
behalf of the City of Guadalupe must be familiar with the sampling and
analysis plan. At a minimum, the sampling and analysis plan must contain
the following:
a. A wastewater treatment process flow schematic with the monitoring
locations labeled and scaled Wastewater System maps with treatment
components, discharge locations (both treated wastewater and non-
potable recycled water), monitoring locations, groundwater wells,
storage locations (e.g., chemical, sludge, emergency overflow ponds),
7 See Attachment E, Standard Provisions, 2013:
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/board_decisions/do-
cs/wdr_standard_provisions_2013.pdf
15
[Page 34]
MRP No. R3-2023-0014 Revised September 27, 2024
City of Guadalupe Wastewater Treatment Facility
and buildings. (if the City of Guadalupe needs to update Figure 1 to
comply with this requirement, a copy of the updated process flow
schemat

[Page 36]
3. Climate Change Adaptation –The Climate Change Adaptation Plan must, at a
minimum, include the following components:
i. Hazards and Vulnerabilities – Identify climate change hazards, at a
minimum accounting for the hazards listed below, applicable to the
Wastewater System. Using up-to-date tools, data, and guidance from the
State of California (e.g., Cal-Adapt8, Sea-Level Rise Guidance from
Ocean Protection Council, reports from the Climate-Safe Infrastructure
Working Group, the Climate Adaptation Planning Guide, and California
Climate Assessment Regional Reports), assess the Wastewater System’s
vulnerability to identified hazards that could cause reduction, loss, or
failure of treatment processes and/or critical structures at the Wastewater
System. Identify and justify the resources (e.g., models and tools, design
parameters) used to inform identification of these hazards and
vulnerabilities.
a. Sea Level Rise – Saltwater intrusion, flooding and inundation, and
increased coastal erosion.
b. Precipitation Pattern Changes.
I. Drought – Decreased influent quantity and quality.
II. Peak Events – Flooding and increased influent quantity.
c. Temperature fluctuations and extremes.
d. Increased wildfires.
e. Increased power outages.
ii. Resiliency Actions – Identify actions to build Wastewater System and
operational resilience to identified vulnerabilities, accounting for options
that minimize resourc

===PLANNED CHANGES===

