[Page 1]
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers owns and operates Hensley Lake and the
associated recreation areas, including the WWTFs at Hidden View Campground and
Buck Ridge Recreation Area. Hensley Lake is located 17 miles northeast of Madera in
Madera County (Section 27, Township 9 South, Range 19 East, Mount Diablo Baseline
and Meridian). Hensley Lake provides recreational activities such as fishing, boating,
swimming, camping, and sightseeing in the Sierra Nevada foothills on the Fresno River.
Hidden View Campground, located on the west side of Hensley Lake, has four restroom
facilities including showers that serves 55 campsites. The wastewater treatment system
consists of two septic tanks, a lift station and lined evaporation pond. The pond liners
are more than 40 years old and their condition is unknown. Average daily flows for the
Hidden View Campground are estimated at about 1,200 gpd. Buck Ridge Recreation
Area, located on the east side of Hensley Lake, has four restroom facilities without
showers that serves 35-day use sites. The wastewater treatment system consists of two
septic tanks, a lift station, and lined evaporation pond. Average daily flows for Buck
Ridge Recreation Area are estimated at about 1,575 gpd. According to the RWD,
wastewater at each location is treated in the septic tanks then pumped to the lined
evaporation ponds for disposal. Source water for Hidden View Campground and Buck
Ridge Recreation Area is treated surface water from Hensley Lake.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS
The Discharger shall maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply
with the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all
attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5358.
In accordance with section B.1 of the General Order, the monthly average daily
discharge to the evaporation ponds shall not exceed 8,000 gpd (or 4,000 gpd at
either the Hidden View Campground or Buck Ridge Recreation Area). In
accordance with the requirements of the General Order, this NOA does not specify a
nitrogen effluent limitation since the combined Facility flow rate is less than 20,000 gpd.
The General Order states in Section B.1 that the Discharger shall comply with the
setbacks as described in Tabl

===PLANNED CHANGES===

