[Page 36]
NALP
[Page 37]
NOITCES
NALP
[Page 38]
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
2.5.1 Pretreatment Facilities
Raw wastewater will be pumped from the existing influent lift station to a new plant pretreatment facility.
The new pretreatment facility will consist of a grit chamber followed by fine screens. Figure 2-3 shows
the plan layout for the pretreatment facilities.
2.5.2 Membrane Bioreactor
The MBR combines a suspended growth biological reactor for activated sludge treatment with submerged
membranes for solids separation. The membranes are contained within the biological tanks and replace
the clarifiers used in conventional activated sludge plants. The MBR process consists of an anoxic zone
for denitrification, an aeration zone for soluble BOD reduction and nitrification, a post-anoxic zone for
further denitrification and a membrane zone for solids separation. The process is designed with an SRT of
20 days, which should be adequate for nitrification/denitrification at the assumed minimum temperature
of 16°C.
Each biological train is rated at 1.25 mgd. Based on the temperature monitoring it may be possible to re-
rate the process trains up to a capacity of 1.5 mgd each. Expansion can be accomplished by adding
biological trains and membrane trains. The design flow of 5.0 mgd meets the projected growth to the
current planning horizon. Additional space for membranes will be provided in each membrane tank. It is
important to note that the initial design has allowed for only enough membranes to handle 4.0 mgd ADF
conditions. The City of Hollister determined that the full 5.0 mgd membrane capacity will not be
required during the first five years of the Project (2008-2013). A decision to purchase the additional
membranes at a later date was made as a cost savings measure.
2.5.2.1 MBR Influent Distribution
Screened wastewater will flow by gravity from the fine screens to the MBR influent distribution structure
that will be used to distribute the wastewater to the MBR process trains. This structure will be covered
with checkered plates for odor control. Air from the MBR influent distribution structure will be treated in
the odor control biofilter.
The flow will be evenly distributed to each process train by providing a downward acting weir gate for
each process train. The weir gates will be manually adjusted to provide a proper flow split to each train.
The process trains could be isolated by raising or closing the weir gate. The influent will flow through
pipes to each individual process train. The MBR influent distribution structure wil

[Page 38]
2.5.2.2 Deoxygenation Zone
A deoxygenation (deox) zone is located upstream of the anoxic zone. This deox zone preconditions the
recirculated mixed liquor from the MBR tanks. The MBR tanks add oxygen to the mixed liquor.
Because of the strict nitrate limit anticipated, the deox zone was added to reduce the dissolved oxygen
recirculated to the anoxic zone. Dissolved oxygen is reduced in the deox zone through endogenous
respiration. The deox zone is sized to provide a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 1.45 hours at a
nominal plant flow rate of 5.0 mgd.
2.5.2.3 Anoxic Zone
The next treatment stage of the MBR process is the anoxic zone, which is operated as a completely mixed
basin without any aeration. The dissolved oxygen in the anoxic basin will be purposely kept low,
typically in the 0.1-0.2 mg/L range, to promote the oxidation of dissolved nitrates into nitrogen gas which
is removed to the atmosphere, a process called denitrification. Mixing of the anoxic basins will be
accomplished with submersible mixers.
April 2008 2-15
[Page 39]
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
MBR influent wastewater will be transferred in pipes to the anoxic basins. Recycled mixed liquor from
the deox zone, which is rich in nitrates, will be mixed with the influent wastewater in the anoxic zone,
thereby providing a carbon source for the denitrifying bacteria. This mixture of influent and recirculated
mixed liquor along with the low dissolved oxygen level promotes the growth of the denitrifying bacteria.
This denitrification process is capable of reducing the nitrate level to <5 mg/L nitrates (as N) to meet
Basin Plan requirements.
The anoxic basin will be divided into two sections to reduce short-circuiting. The anoxic basin has a HRT
of approximately 2.76 hours at 5.0 mgd. A recycle rate of approximately 6Q (six times the average
influent flow rate) will be required to reduce the nitrates to the design level. The anoxic zones at the plant
will be designed with four parallel trains to allow for continued operation when one basin is removed
from service for maintenance.
2.5.2.4 Aeration Zone
The next stage of the MBR system is the aeration zone. Wastewater will flow by gravity from the anoxic
basin to the aeration basin. The aeration zone will be equipped with fine bubble diffusers for mixing and
oxygen transfer. The aeration zone is typically operated with a dissolved oxygen level of 2-3 mg/L. The
aeration zone establishes an environment to promote a suspended biological growth that breaks down the
soluble BOD by converting it into cellular biomass. The aeration zone is also designed to promote growth
of nitrifying bacteria, which oxidize ammonia into nitrates – a process called nitrification.
Four aeration trains are designed to provide the ability to continue processing wastewater with one train
out of service. The aeration basin will be designed with a HRT of approximately 10.3 hours at the
nominal flow rate of 5.0 mgd. The aeration zone will operate with a mixed liquor suspended solids
(MLSS) concentration of approximately 8,500 mg/L. Fine bubble, membrane disk diffusers will provide
process air and mixing power to the aeration zone. Aeration air will be provided to the system by high-
speed turbocompressors, which will be located in a blower building.
Three variable frequency drive (VFD) driven process blowers will be provided for the biological process
requirements. One standby blower will be provided.
2.5.2.5 Post-Anoxic Zone
The aeration basins overflow into post-anoxic basins, which are designed to further enhance the
denitrification process. The post-anoxic basins have a HRT of approximately 1.3 hours at 5.0 mgd. Each
basin is equipped with a submersible mixer. A source of supplemental carbon, either methanol or ethanol,
may be required during certain flow and loading conditions. An aboveground, fuel-type storage tank and
gear pumps are used for storage and feed of the methanol. The denitrification process is highly dependent
on wastewater temperatures and nitrogen loading. The supplemental carbon will probably not be required
on a year round basis.
The flow exits the post-anoxic basin through slide gates into the mixed liquor collection channel. The
mixed liquor is pumped from this channel to the membrane distribution channel. Six axial flow pumps (5
duty, 1 standby) will be used to provide a flow up to 6Q (influent flow). The mixed liquor recirculation
pumps will be VFD driven for flow control. The pumps feed a 48-inch header pipe to transport the mixed
liquor to the MBR tanks. A 40-inch magnetic flow meter will be provided to measure and control the
recirculation rate.
2.5.2.6 Membrane Zone
The immersed membranes are located in a separate zone for each process train. The selected Zenon
membrane configuration will consist of hollow fiber ultrafiltration membranes. These membranes have a
nominal pore size of 0.04 microns. The process will have four membrane trains so that the plant flow
could be maintained even with one membrane train out of service for cleaning or maintenance. The
membrane basins will have inlet slide gates for isolation.
April 2008 2-16
[Page 40]
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
The immersed membranes separate the solids from the MBR effluent, called permeate. A slight vacuum
will be applied to the permeate header by a centrifugal pump. Treated wastewater will then be drawn
through the membrane and flow through the center of the membrane and through to connecting tubing to
the permeate header. In turn, the permeate will flow through the pump to the downstream processes.
Ultrafiltration of the wastewater results in typical permeate turbidity values of less than 0.1 NTU.
Operating data suggest that the membranes also reduce bacterial counts, potentially providing some
degree of disinfection. Results at operating plants show permeate coliform counts typically less than 23
MPN/100-mL without additional disinfection, and often the MBR permeate coliform totals are less than
2.2 MPN/100-mL.
The mixed liquor in the membrane zone will be agitated by a coarse bubble diffuser system. The
membrane agitation air provides a scouring velocity along the membranes required to prevent a buildup
of solids at the surface of the membranes. Four (4) separate high-speed turbocompressors, which will be
located in the blower building, will supply the membrane agitation air.
To maintain performance, the membranes require a “rest” period where flow through the membranes is
stopped allowing the membranes to relax. This rest cycle is fully automated and is typically done on a
cycle of 15-20 minutes on and 2 minutes of rest.
The membranes may need to be cleaned periodically through backwashing to prevent plugging or fouling
of the membrane surfaces, which increases the transmembrane pressure through the membranes resulting
in diminished permeate production. The method of backwashing is operator selected and is fully
automated. Backwashing requires the use of permeate containing a high chlorine concentration to be
pumped back through the membranes on a regular basis. Sodium hypochlorite will be used to dose stored
permeate in a backwash tank. This solution will then be pumped back through the membranes in the
reverse direction to the permeate flow. This backwash operation will occur approximately once or twice
every day. Once or twice a year the membrane cassettes will be taken off-line and undergo a clean-in-
place cycle. The clean-in-place begins by draining the membrane tank. The membranes are then
backwashed with a chlorine solution, which fills the membrane tank. The membranes are allowed to
soak. After soaking, the membrane tank is drained and refilled with mixed liquor and the membranes are
placed back into service.
Solids will be retained in the membrane tank and will be continuously recycled back to the anoxic zone to
maintain the biomass concentration in the system and also to undergo denitrification. This recycle flow is
low in ammonia but high in nitrates. The nitrates in turn provide the denitrifying bacteria in the anoxic
zone with an alternate oxygen source to promote denitrification of the wastewater. The recirculated mixed
liquor from the membrane basins is typically high in dissolved oxygen. Since this dissolved oxygen will
suppress the denitrification process it must be lowered. The deoxygenation basin receives the mixed
liquor prior to the anoxic basin. The dissolved oxygen is lowered in the deoxygenation basin through
endogenous respiration. The mixed liquor is kept in suspension by submersible mixers provided for each
basin. From the deoxygenation basins, the mixed liquor flows by gravity into the anoxic basins.
2.5.2.7 MBR Process Equipment Area
The MBR process equipment, which includes the permeate pumps, backpulse pumps, backpulse tank,
valves, flow meters and associated controls and instrumentation, will be located in a building adjacent to
the MBR basins. This building is described in a later section.
2.5.3 Disinfection
Permeate (effluent) sent to the percolation beds for disposal will not be disinfected. The ultrafiltration
membranes remove a large portion of the bacteria present. Coliform levels in the MBR effluent are
typically less than 23 MPN/100mL. The EPA Design Manual for Land Treatment of Municipal
Wastewater states that wastewater applied to rapid infiltration or percolation beds does not require
April 2008 2-17
[Page 41]
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
disinfection. Maintenance of Basin Plan standards for groundwater coliform should not require
disinfection, and avoiding disinfection will minimize disinfection by products in the discharge.
Disinfection of the portion of the MBR effluent used for recycled water will be accomplished by
chlorination. The chlorination system and contact basins will be designed to meet Title 22 disinfected
tertiary recycled water requirements. With respect to Title 22, two conditions must be met:
1. The filtered wastewater has been disinfected by either:
(i) A chlorine disinfection process following filtration that provides a CT (the product of total
chlorine residual and modal contact time measured at the same point) value of not less than
450 milligram-minutes per liter at all times with a modal contact time of at least 90 minutes,
based on peak dry weather design flow; or
(ii) A disinfection process that, when combined with the filtration process, has been
demonstrated to inactivate and/or remove 99.999% of the plaque-forming units of F-specific
bacteriophage MS2, or polio virus in the wastewater. A virus that is at least as resistant to
disinfection as polio virus may be used for the purposes of the demonstration.
2. The median concentration of total coliform bacteria measured in the disinfected effluent does not
exceed an MPN of 2.2 per 100-mL utilizing the bacteriological results of the last seven days for
which analyses have been completed and the number of total coliform bacteria does not exceed
an MPN of 23 per 100-mL in more than one s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

