[Page 158]
Number CA0055531).
The Hyperion WRP has provided full secondary treatment since December 1998.
A process flow diagram of the Hyperion WRP process is depicted in Attachment
C1. The treatment processes consist of advanced primary, and secondary
treatment:
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-8
ADOPTED ORDER: 2/23/2023
[Page 159]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2023-0033
HYPERION WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
a. Preliminary Treatment - The headworks removes coarse solids (bar
screens) and, sand and silt (grit removal) from wastewater. The headworks
consists of eight barscreens (4 new 3/4-inch and 4 new 3/8-inch) with
provisions for two future bar screens with a capacity of over 1,000 MGD, a
grit capture classifier, pumping equipment, and screen storage hoppers.
b. Advanced Primary Treatment – Includes primary sedimentation with
coagulation and flocculation using anionic polymer and ferric chloride, and
surface skimming. The heavier solids settle and are scraped out of the
primary sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are
skimmed off. The primary treatment process consists of four primary batteries
consisting of a total of 26 primary sedimentation tanks, a skimming system, a
raw sludge collection mechanism, and a pumping apparatus. Primary effluent
is pumped via ten Archimedes screw type pumps with a total capacity of over
1,000 MGD to the secondary reactors via the Intermediate Pumping Station
(IPS).
c. Secondary Treatment – Includes activated sludge biological treatment using
high purity oxygen and secondary clarification. Activated sludge consists of
microorganisms that consume non-settleable and dissolved organic
contaminants which form a settleable floc. Secondary clarification removes
the biological floc from the wastewater and the biological floc becomes part of
the sludge. The secondary process is comprised of nine reactor modules
each with a design capacity of 50 MGD, a cryogenic facility to produce high
purity oxygen, 36 circular clarifiers each with a design capacity of about 30
MGD, and a Return Activated Sludge (RAS) pumping system. Hyperion WRP
pumps approximately 36 MGD of secondary effluent to West Basin for
advanced treatment and reuse. The rest of the secondary treated effluent
discharge through the 5-Mile Outfall (Discharge Point 002) by pumping or
gravity (depending on the tide condition) to the Santa Monica Bay.
d. Service Water facility - The Hyperion WRP also contains a Service Water
Facility that accepts approximately 11 MGD of secondary-treated effluent to
produce service water for internal plant use. Approximately 5 MGD of the
secondary effluent is directed through a filtration process and then used to
provide cooling water at the on-site cryogenic facility. The spent cooling water
from the cryogenic facility is combined with the final effluent before entering
the Effluent Pumping Plant for discharge (See attachment C1). The spent
cooling water is not expected to negatively impact effluent quality due to the
low flow rate compared to total flow and the process is only expected to alter
the temperature of the cooling water (no chemical addition). The Permittee is
also required to monitor the temperature of the final effluent and this
Order/Permit includes a final effluent limitation for temperature of 100°F. The
remaining service water is disinfected and used as high-pressure effluent for
a variety of uses within the Facility such as line flushing, equipment seal
water, sluice water at the headworks, chemical dilution, facility wash-down,
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-9
ADOPTED ORDER: 2/23/2023
[Page 160]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2023-0033
HYPERION WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
and clarifier scum break-down. The Service Water Facility provides a lower
cost alternative while also reducing the Permittee’s reliance on imported
potable water.
e. Solids Processing - Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment
processes include grit, primary screenings, primary sludge and skimming,
thickened waste activated sludge, digested sludge screenings and digester
cleaning solids. The fine solids (grit, primary screenings, digested sludge
screenings, digester cleaning solids) that consist of primarily inorganic
materials are hauled away to landfills. The remaining solid fractions (primary
sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge) are anaerobically
digested onsite. The digested solids are screened and dewatered using
centrifuges. Since January 1, 2003, the Hyperion WRP has implemented full
thermophilic digestion to generate Class A “EQ” biosolids using 18 anaerobic
digesters. The biosolids (treated sewage sludge) are beneficially reused
offsite at the Green Acre Farm in Kern County for land application and
composting projects. The digester gas is cleaned, and a major part of the gas
is currently exported to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power’s
Scattergood Steam Generating Plant, located immediately adjacent to the
Hyperion WRP. The exported digester gas is used as fuel in the generation of
electricity. In return, the generating plant provides steam for digester heating
at the Hyperion WRP. During interruptions in the export of steam from the
Scattergood Steam Generation Plant, digester gas can be used as fuel for in-
plant boilers that provide steam to heat the anaerobic digesters. Any
remaining non-exported digester gas may be flared, if necessary, and is
regulated under a flare operation permit from the South Coast Air Quality
Management District (AQMD). Attachment B1-B3 provides a map of the area
around the facility.
The Hyperion WRP has an industrial wastewater Pretreatment Program, which is
approved by USEPA and the Los Angeles Water Board. The Discharger
continues to implement the Pretreatment Program t

[Page 161]
International Airport (LAX) and within Hyperion WRP. Details of the HAWPF can
be found in Fact Sheet section 3.7.
The Permittee plans to conduct a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) Pilot Facility
project in the next permitting cycle, which will determine the viability and design
basis of converting the existing activated sludge facilities at the Hyperion WRP to
an MBR system to provide an average daily flow of 272 MGD for potable and
non-potable reuse by 2035. Influent to the pilot project will be comprised of
Hyperion WRP primary effluent and will be treated by MBR process, reverse
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-11
ADOPTED ORDER: 2/23/2023
[Page 162]
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2023-0033
HYPERION WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
osmosis (RO), and advanced oxidation process (AOP). The pilot project will
discharge streams of waste activated sludge, MBR filtrate overflow, RO
permeate, RO concentrate, neutralized RO cleaning waste, and AOP effluent to
the headworks of Hyperion WRP primary sedimentation through plant drains.
The net effect of the discharge from the pilot project will be minimal because all
streams from pilot project will stay on site in a looped mode.
3.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Hyperion WRP has three ocean outfalls; however, only two outfalls (i.e., 001
and 002) are authorized discharge points for discharging treated wastewater to
the Pacific Ocean as d

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee plans to construct a permanent pump station for the 1-Mile Outfall
Surge Chamber. The pump station will help with drawdown from the 1-Mile
outfall gates to the inlet channel of the Service Water Facility for treatment and
will be used for scheduled preventive maintenance and selected standard
operating procedures. The construction is scheduled to be completed in April
2023.
The Permittee is also in the process of upgrading and augmenting the existing
treatment systems at the Hyperion WRP to produce and supply highly purified
recycled water for various potential non-potable uses to the Los Angeles
International Airport (LAX) and within Hyperion WRP. This proposed recycled
water project (“project”) consists of the design, construction and operation of the
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility (HAWPF). HAWPF will process up
to 2 MGD primary treated effluent through fine screening, membrane bioreactor
(MBR), reverse osmosis (RO), and UV disinfection/advanced oxidation process
(UV/AOP) to produce 1.5 MGD of advanced treated recycled water. Construction
tasks for the HAWPF are scheduled to be completed by November 2023. The
HAWPF will produce advanced-treated recycled water that will support several
non-potable uses at LAX including cooling tower make-up water and dual
plumbing. The advanced-treated recycled water will also support industrial uses
onsite at the