[Page 0]
6. The existing WWTF consists of headworks with an auger grinding solids, a Parshall
flume flowmeter, a lift station with pumps, a primary.aeration pond (CM Lagoon 1), three
secondary aeration ponds (PM Lagoons 1, 2, and 3), three settling ponds (Settling Ponds
1, 2 and 3), and three disposal ponds (Disposal Ponds 4, 5 and 6). Attachment C of this
Ord_er, which is attached hereto and is made part of this Order by reference, depicts a ·
process flow diagram of the existing WWTF.
[Page 1]
·;: ' ~,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0115 -2-
CITY OF KERMAN WWfF
FRESNO COUNTY
7. The WWTF's collection system is composed of about 29 miles of gravity sewer lines, which
· consist of a network of 6-inch

[Page 2]
13. The EC of the WWTF influent ranges from about 350 to 450 µmhos/cm ·over source water.
Expansion Project
14.The design of the Expansion Project is not complete; however, the conceptual design is
described below. Attachment C depicts a conceptual process flow. diagram of the
· Expansion Project.
15.The RWD describes the City's plans to upgrade the existing headworks, as necessary.
Recent changes will include replacing the existing Parshall Flume flow metering structure
with a magnetic flow meter on the pump discharge line.
16.The City accepts septage at a manhole directly outside the gated area of the WWTF. The
RWD describes the City's plans to install a new 5,000-gallon storage tank for septage
receiving, management, and equalization. The tank will be to the west of the existing
[Page 3]
~
. )
· WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0115 . -4-
CITY OF KERMAN WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
headworks, in a newly gated atea that will provide access for after-hours septic deliveries.
The·site will be managed ori an "honor system," with video camera monitoring.
a
17.ihe RWD describes the City's plans to construct Biolac System©, which is an extended
aeration biological treatment process with diffused fine bubble aeration to replace the
existing mechanical surface aerated pond system. The treatment process will be operated
to allow for de-nitrification. The Biolac system will utilize the existing CM Lagoon 1 and will
bring the treatment capacity to 2 mgd. The WWTF will consist of an aeration basin (CM
Lagoon 1 ), two concrete clarifiers, return and waste activated sludge pumps, aerobic.
sludge digester, and sludge handling and storage facilities. Effluent from the clarifiers will
be discharged to Storage Ponds A through C (current PM Lagoons 1 through 3).
18.Sludge from the clarifiers will be pumped to the aerobic sludge digester. The digester will
utilize an existing reinforced concrete aeration basin from the previous WWTF (prior to the
· existing WWTF). Digested sludge, at approximately 2-6 percent solids, will be pumped to
reinforced concrete sludge drying beds during the summer and mechanically dewatered in
the winter. Sludge will then be hauled offsite to a permitted facility.
19. The water balance presented in the RWD indicates that the City will need approximately
31.6 acres of percolation area to dispose of 2.0 mgd, assuming a percolation rate of
2.98 inches per day. The City proposes converting Settling Ponds 1 and 2 to Disposal
Ponds. In total, the City will have seven Disposal Ponds (Disposal Ponds 1 through 3 and
5 through 8} with a total storage capacity of 338 acre-feet. Attachment B depicts the
iocations of the existing and proposed disposal ponds. ·
. '
20.The RWD indicates that the proposed discharge will achieve the following effluent quality.
Constituent/Parameter Units Monthly Average Daily Maximum
Monthly Average Discharge Flow mgd 2.0
BOD mg/L 30 60
TSS mg/L 30 60
Total Nitrogen mg/L 10
21. It is anticipated that effluent mineral and metals quality characterized in Finding 12 for the
existing WWTF will be similar to the effluent qua

===PLANNED CHANGES===

