[Page 27]
General Order.
ad. Nuisance: Nuisance means anything which meets all of the following
requirements:
(1) Is injurious to health, or is indecent and offensive to the sense, or is an
obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property.
(2) Affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or
damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.
(3) Occurs during, or as a result of, the treatment or disposal of wastes.
ae. Pathogens: Disease causing agents including helminths, bacteria, viruses, and
protozoa.
af. Pathogen Reduction: Process used to destroy pathogenic material contained in
sewage sludge.
ag. Pollution: Means an alteration of the quality of the waters of the State by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects either of the following:
(1) The waters for beneficial uses.
(2) Facilities which serve these beneficial uses.
ah. Secondary Nutrients: The elements of calcium, magnesium, and sulfur.
ai. Septage: Waste material removed from a septic tank, cesspool, portable toilet,
Type III marine sanitation device, or similar wastewater handling device that
has not passed through a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
aj. Sewage Sludge: The solid, semisolid, or liquid residue generated during the
treatment of domestic sewage in a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
Sewage sludge includes solids removed or used during primary, secondary, or
advanced wastewater treatment processes. Sewage sludge does not include grit
[Page 28]
or screening material generated during preliminary treatment of domestic
sewage at a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
ak. Short-Term Storage: Biosolids storage sites used as a temporary holding
facility for less than or equal to seven days.
al. Silviculture: The practice, science, or art of managing, developing, and
harvesting forests and trees for human use.
am. Soil Amendment: Applications of a fertilizing material or agricultural mineral
for the purpose of promoting utilization by plants and other living organisms
with the goal of a net gain in soil productivity.
an. Staging Area: Area used to hold biosolids for less than 48 hours prior to use
for the specified activity listed in the NOI.
ao. Tailwater: Excess water from crop irrigation resulting in a discharge off site to
a surface water body.
ap. Vector Attraction: Characteristic of biosolids that attracts potential pathogen
transmitters such as flies, rodents, and other animals or organisms.
aq. Water-saturated soil: Water content of the soil such that any further addition of
water will result in runoff, standing water, or percolation of water through the
displacement of existing soil water.
4. Treatment facilities serve urban and suburban population areas by collecting and
treating municipal wastewater and reusing or disposing of wastewater effluent.
While serving the public in this manner, significant amounts of sewage sludge are
generated. This material is typically further treated (stabilized) and dewatered
resulting in biosolids as a product of the wastewater treatment process. Biosolids
can be managed using a variety of options including: (a) disposal in a sanitary
landfill, (b) incineration, (c) placement into a landfill dedicated for this purpose, (d)
use as daily landfill cover, and (e) use in land application operations, including
reclamation, horticulture, agriculture, and silviculture. As population increases and
technological improvements in wastewater treatment processes occur, the amount
of biosolids generated in California is likely to increase significantly.
5. Particularly in urban areas, industrial sources discharge into wastewater collection
systems. Many of these discharges are regulated by pretreatment programs
implemented pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. These programs restrict industries from
discharging toxic pollutants in concentrations creating concern

===PLANNED CHANGES===

