[Page 93]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Merced and serves a population
of approximately 93,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is currently
12.0 million gallons per day (MGD). Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to
complete two phased expansions at the Facility to increase the design daily average flow
capacity up to 16.0 mgd and up to 20.0 mgd, respectively.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of the following: a headworks pump
station with fine screens and grit removal; primary clarifiers; activated sludge basins
with internal separate anoxic denitrification basins; secondary clarifiers; flocculation
basins; filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; and a re-aeration outfall.
Solids handling and treatment include: a dissolved air flotation thickener, primary
digesters, digester gas holder, solids dewatering facility, centrate pump station and
equalization tank, and lined active solar dryers. All dried biosolids are applied to the
Land Application Area (LAA) except the abandoned ponds 5 and 6 area. The Facility
produces approximately 1,500 dry metric tons of biosolids annually.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 10, T8S, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Equivalent disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is discharged at
Discharge Point No. 002 to Hartley Slough at a point latitude of 37.25349°

[Page 94]
4. Equivalent disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is also discharged
at Discharge Point No. 004 to the LAA at a point latitude 37.24047° N and
longitude 120.5261° W. The LAA consists of a total of 670 acres. Abandoned
Ponds 5 and 6 make up 90 acres of the LAA, and no biosolids are authorized to
be applied to this portion of the LAA. The remaining 580 acres consist of an
area where industrial waste (primarily food processing waste) was formerly
discharged for land treatment. These 580 acres do receive biosolids for land
application. The LAA has historically been planted with a winter crop of triticale
(a hybrid of wheat and rye) or rye and a summer crop of sudan grass. The
Basin Plan designates groundwater beneath the LAA (Discharge 004) as MUN,
industrial service supply (IND), PRO, and AGR. Public access to the area is
restricted by two gates that limit access to t

[Page 96]
Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions at
the Facility to increase the flow rate to 16.0 mgd and 20.0 mgd. The expansion to
16.0 mgd will consist of adding a fourth activated sludge basin, a third sludge
digester, a solids holding tank, and additional active solar dryers. The expansion to
20.0 mgd will consist of adding a fourth primary clarifier, a fifth activated sludge
basin, and a fifth secondary clarifier. Effluent quality is anticipated to stay the same.
The Discharger has not proposed a timeframe for the phased expansions.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions at
the Facility to increase the flow rate to 16.0 mgd and 20.0 mgd. The expansion to
16.0 mgd will consist of adding a fourth activated sludge basin, a third sludge
digester, a solids holding tank, and additional active solar dryers. The expansion to
20.0 mgd will consist of adding a fourth primary clarifier, a fifth activated sludge
basin, and a fifth secondary clarifier. Effluent quality is anticipated to stay the same.
The Discharger has not proposed a timeframe for the phased expansions.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California