[Page 7]
A. Eligible Discharges
This General Order applies to owners and operators (hereafter Dischargers) of municipal
wastewater treatment facilities that meet water quality objectives/criteria at the point of
discharge to surface waters of the United States. These facilities may be publicly owned
treatment works (POTW’s), as defined at 40 C.F.R. section 403.3, or privately owned
treatment works, as defined at 40 C.F.R. section 122.2. This General Order covers major and
minor discharges and does not specify eligibility criteria for flow.
The municipal wastewater treatment facilities to be covered by this General Order receive and
treat primarily municipal and domestic sewage (i.e., waste and wastewater from humans or
household operations), but may also receive and treat septage, commercial and industrial
wastewater, storm water, and dry-weather diversions from municipal separate storm sewer
(MS4) systems. This General Order does not authorize discharges to surface waters directly
from septic tanks or discharges that are comprised solely of non-municipal wastewater (e.g.,
commercial wastewater, industrial wastewater, or storm water).
This General Order covers municipal wastewater treatment facilities that provide secondary,
advanced secondary, or tertiary treatment. Secondary treatment facilities are defined as those
meeting the secondary treatment regulations at 40 C.F.R. part 133. Secondary treatment
processes generally include a combination of physical and biological treatment to remove
biodegradable organics and suspended solids. Advanced secondary facilities provide
additional treatment beyond secondary (e.g., filtration). Tertiary facilities are defined as those
providing filtration and disinfection equivalent to the levels required by the State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board), Division of Drinking Water (DDW) reclamation
criteria at California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 22, division 4, chapter 3, (Title 22). This
General Order does not cover discharges that do not receive, at a minimum, secondary
treatment (e.g., primary treatment, equivalent-to-secondary treatment).
This General Order covers municipal wastewater treatment facilities that provide disinfection
using either chlorine or ultraviolet light (UV), but does not cover facilities that provide
disinfection using alternative disinfection methods (e.g., ozonation or pasteurization).
The Policy for Implementation of Toxics Standards for Inland Surface Waters, Enclosed Bays,
and Estuaries of California (State Implementation Policy or SIP) in section 1.3, Step 8,
paragraph 2, states that the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board (Central
Valley Water Board) may choose to exempt low volume discharges, determined to have no
significant adverse impact on water qual

===PLANNED CHANGES===

