[Page 49]
Receiving Water Type Marine
A. The City of Millbrae and the North Bayside System Unit (NBSU) (together, the Discharger)
discharge treated wastewater into the deepwater channel of Lower San Francisco Bay. The City of
Millbrae owns and operates the Water Pollution Control Plant (plant), a publicly-owned treatment
works, and the wastewater collection system. The plant provides secondary treatment of wastewater
and discharges the effluent to the NBSU forcemain.
The NBSU is a joint powers authority that includes the San Francisco International Airport and the
cities of Burlingame, Millbrae, South San Francisco, and San Bruno. The NBSU owns and operates
the effluent forcemain, the combined effluent pumping station, effluent dechlorination facilities, and
the deepwater outfall. For the purposes of this Order, the plant, the City of Millbrae’s collection
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 50]
City of Millbrae and NBSU Order No. R2-2019-0009
City of Millbrae Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES No. CA0037532
system, and the NBSU forcemain, combined effluent pumping station, dechlorination facilities, and
deepwater outfall are collectively referred to as the “Facility.”
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable federal
and State laws, regulations, plans, or policies are held to be equivalent to references to the
Discharger herein.
B. The Discharger is regulated pursuant to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Permit No. CA0037532. The Discharger was previously subject to Order No. R2-2013-0037
(previous order). The Discharger filed a Report of Waste Discharge and submitted an application for
reissuance of its Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and NPDES permit on July 30, 2018.
The Discharger is authorized to discharge subject to the WDRs in this Order at the discharge
location described in Table 2 of this Order. Regulations at 40 C.F.R. section 122.46 limit the
duration of NPDES permits to a fixed term not to exceed five years. Accordingly, Table 3 of this
Order limits the effective period for the discharge authorization. Pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 23, section 2235.4, the terms and conditions of an expired permit are automatically
continued pending reissuance of the permit if the Discharger complies with all requirements for
continuation of expired permits. (40 C.F.R § 122.6[d].)
C. Order No. R2-2016-0008 amended the previous order to provide for an alternate monitoring
program and remains in effect with this Order. The discharge is also regulated under NPDES
Permit Nos. CA0038849 and CA0038873, which establish requirements on mercury and
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and nutrients from wastewater discharges to San Francisco
Bay. This Order does not affect those permits.
D. When applicable, State law requires dischargers to file a petition with the State Water Resources
Control Board (State Water Board), Division of Water Rights, and receive approval for any
change in the point of discharge, place of use, or purpose of use of treated wastewater that
decreases the flow in any portion of a watercourse. The State Water Board retains separate
jurisdictional authority to enforce such requirements under Water Code section 1211. This is not
an NPDES permit requirement.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. Location and Service Area. The plant is located at 400 East Millbrae Avenue in the City of
Millbrae. It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater
for the City of Millbrae, and serves a population of about 22,700.
2. Collection System. The City of Millbrae owns the wastewater collection system located
within its city limits. It consists of approximately 55 miles of gravity sewer pipe, three pump
stations with firm capacities of 300 gallons per minute (gpm), 1,000 gpm, and 1,425 gpm;
and 1 mile of forcemain downstream of the pump stations. The City also owns 22 miles of
lower laterals, resulting in a total collection system length of 78 miles.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process at the plant consists of screening
(two fine bar screens and one coarse bar screen), grit removal (two vortex type grit removal
devices), influent flow equalization (two tanks with a maximum combined volume of
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 51]
City of Millbrae and NBSU Order No. R2-2019-0009
City of Millbrae Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES No. CA0037532
1.2 million gallons), primary sedimentation (two rectangular primary clarifiers), biological
activated sludge treatment (two aeration basins), secondary clarification (two secondary
clarifiers), and chlorine disinfection using sodium hypochlorite. Treated wastewater is
discharged to the NBSU forcemain, which transports treated wastewater to the South San
Francisco and San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant for dechlorination using sodium
bisulfite prior to discharge to Lower San Francisco Bay from Discharge Point No. 002. These
steps are shown in the process flow diagram in Attachment C. The plant has an average daily
treatment capacity of up to 3.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet weather
capacity of 9.0 MGD. From February 2014 through June 2018, the plant treated a daily
average of 1.5 MGD, with the highest reported average daily flow being 7.6 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge and waste
activated sludge with either a gravity or mechanical thickener. All thickened sludge is then
treated by mesophilic anaerobic digestion and dewatered by a belt filter press. Dewatered
sludge is trucked to either composting sites, land application sites, or landfills for disposal.
5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
headworks for treatment; therefore, no stormwater requirements are necessary.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated effluent flows through the 60-inch NBSU forcemain into Lower San Francisco Bay at
Discharge Point No. 002 via a 620-foot diffuser composed of 66 ports (3-inch diameter) spaced 7
feet apart and 28 ports (2.8-inch diameter) spaced 6 feet apart. The location of the outfall is
northeas

===PLANNED CHANGES===

