[Page 2]
The Discharger provides sewerage service for a population of approximately
272,000 for the City of Modesto, the community of Empire, and a portion of the City
of Ceres. The Facility consists of two different treatment facilities; a primary
treatment facility and a secondary/tertiary treatment facility located approximately
6.5 miles to the southwest of the primary treatment facility.
Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of two separate primary and
secondary/tertiary treatment facilities. The primary treatment plant consists of
screening, grit removal, and primary clarification. Sludge from the clarifiers is
transferred to thickeners, then processed and stabilized through anaerobic
digesters. Digested sludge is transferred to holding tanks where it is periodically
drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant flows routed to the septage disposal
station for blending with influent wastewater. The Discharger applies the stabilized
sludge as a soil amendment on its 2,526-acre ranch under separate WDR Order
94-030.
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the secondary/tertiary treatment
facility where the wastewater receives secondary treatment for irrigation of cropland
or receives tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light disinfection for discharge to the San
Joaquin River or the Delta-Mendota Canal. Discharges of undisinfected secondary
treated domestic wastewater to cropland are regulated by separate WDR Order
99-112. Discharges to the Delta-Mendota Canal are regulated by Order
R5-2022-0034 (NPDES No. CA0085316). For the secondary treatment system that
discharges to land per Order 99-112, approximately half of the primary effluent
receives treatment with fixed film reactors and then is combined with primary effluent
in an aerated recirculation channel. Flow in the recirculation channel is then
distributed to three parallel facultative ponds for further treatment, and then
transferred to one of two storage ponds before being applied to the Discharger’s
2,526-acre ranch at agronomic rates.
The Facility’s tertiary treatment facility consists of two parallel two-step membrane
bioreactor (MBR) facilities. The Phase 1A facility consists of an oxidation ditch that
provides activated sludge biological nutrient removal treatment, reducing
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) and providing nitrogen removal (i.e.,
nitrification/denitrification). The oxidation ditch is followed by membrane filtration and
ultraviolet light (UV) radiation that disinfects the filtered wastewater prior to storage
or discharge. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment facilities (2.3 MGD)
was completed on 1 July 2010. The Phase 2 facility consists of aeration basins for
activated sludge biological nutrient removal treatment followed by membrane
filtration and UV disinfection. The Phase 2 facility provides a tertiary treatment
capacity of 12.6 MGD and was completed in the spring of 2017. The current total
tertiary filtration average dry weather flow capacity is 14.9 MGD. The tertiary treated
wastewater may be reused on the Discharger’s 2,526-acre ranch or discharged to
the San Joaquin River. In addition, the Discharger has partnered with the City of
Turlock and the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

