[Page 0]
4. The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge on April 1, 2007, as an application
for a Master Reclamation Requirements (MRR) permit. The Report of Waste Discharge
proposes wastewater treatment, reclamation, and disposal improvements that will provide for
water recycling. Specifically, the Discharger proposes to upgrade the DWTP from a 2.69
million gallons per day (MGD) facultative and oxidation pond disposal system to a 5.0 MGD
immersed membrane bioreactor (MBR) disinfected tertiary recycled water system. The new
facilities at the DWTP include: .
a. Grit removal with grit classifier
b. Fine screens with screening washer/compactor
[Page 1]
MRR ORDER NO. R3-2008-0069 2 December 5,2008
c. Screened wastewater flow split structure
d. Biological prdcess basins (anoxic, aeration and post-anoxic zones)
e. Mixed liquor recirculation pump station
f. MBR basins to house the membrane filters
g. MBR permeate pumps
h. Chlorine contact basins
i. Plant water and effluent pump stations
j. Process blower and membrane blower building
k. Solids thickening and dewatering facility
I. Solids stabilization basin (utilizing the existing Pond 1A)
m. Chemical feed and storage building
n. Operations building, including laboratory and maintenance shop
o. Septage receiving station
p. Odor control biofilter
q. Plant drain pump station
r. New electrical power service
s. Standby power generators
t. Plant access/security system
u. Instrumentation and control system
v. Recycled water distribution pump station
w. Return water pumping station
x. Seasonal storage ponds
y. Nine miles of distribution pipelines
INTENT OF THIS ORDER
5. California Water Code Section 13523.1 provides that the Water Board may issue a Master
Reclamation Requirements permit (Order) to a supplier or distributor, or both, of reclaimed
water.
6. Order No. R3-2008-0069 is intended to serve as a Master Reclamation Requirements permit
that is consistent with California Water Code Section 1352

===PLANNED CHANGES===

