[Page 69]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
The MRWPCA, which currently serves a population of approximately 252,000, was
created in 1972. MRWPCA consists of and provides regional wastewater treatment,
disposal, and reclamation facilities for the cities of Monterey, Pacific Grove, Del Rey Oaks,
Sand City, Marina, and Salinas; the Seaside County Sanitation District; the Castroville,
Moss Landing and Boronda Community Services Districts; and Fort Ord. Each member
entity retains ownership and operating/maintenance responsibility for wastewater
collection and transport systems up to the point of connection with interceptors owned and
operated by the Discharger. Residential, commercial, and industrial wastewater is
conveyed to the MRWPCA Regional Treatment Plant, which has a design treatment
capacity of 29.6 MGD (average dry weather flow) and currently treats approximately 18
MGD. The Facility began operation in 1990, replacing six local wastewater treatment
facilities.
The MRWPCA currently accepts 30,000 – 50,000 gallons per day (gpd) of brine wastes by
truck from business entities which would otherwise be discharging to the sanitary sewer
system. Such wastewaters include softener regenerant wastes and reverse osmosis
brines, which are now trucked to the Regional Treatment Plant instead of being
discharged to the collection system. Because irrigation uses of recycled wastewater are
sensitive to elevated levels of total dissolved solids (TDS), the MRWPCA has sought to
keep such elevated TDS wastewaters segregated from the influent flow of the Regional
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 70]
MONTEREY REGIONAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL AGENCY ORDER NO. R3-2014-0013
NPDES NO. CA0048551
Treatment Plant. Brine wastes are held in a 375,000 gallon (approximate) lined holding
pond at the Regional Treatment Plant and ultimately discharged directly to or blended with
secondary treated wastewater before being discharged through Discharge Point 001.
Wastewater treatment at the Regional Treatment Plant includes aerated grit removal,
primary clarifiers, trickling filters, solids contact, secondary clarifiers, and filtration.
Undisinfected secondary clarifier effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001.
Sludge/biosolids are anaerobically digested and sent to two screw presses constructed in
2007. The presses have replaced the sludge drying beds and belt filter press. The holding
lagoons and some of the drying beds may still be utilized in emergency situations. Dried
solids are then hauled to the Monterey Regional Waste Management District’s landfill in
Marina, California, adjacent to the Regional Treatment Plant, where it is mixed with wood
products and used for slope cover.
In winter months, secondary treated wastewater from the Regional Treatment Plant is
discharged through a diffuser, positioned 11,260 feet offshore at a depth of approximately
100 feet, to Monterey Bay. In summer months, treated wastewater is recycled for irrigation
of 12

===PLANNED CHANGES===

