[Page 61]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant provides advanced secondary
treatment for domestic and non-industrial commercial wastewater from
unincorporated areas near the City of Martinez and portions of the City of
Martinez, serving a population of about 21,000 people. The collection system
consists of approximately 73 miles of gravity sewer main, two miles of pressure
sewer main, and four pump stations. Attachment B contains maps of the Facility
area.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The plant has an advanced secondary treatment
capacity of 3.2 million gallons per day (MGD) as a dry-weather daily average.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 62]
Mt. View Sanitary District Order R2-2021-0026
Mt. View Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0037770
The treatment system consists of screening, primary clarification, trickling
filtration, ammonia removal nitrification (accomplished in a bio-tower),
secondary sedimentation, sand filtration, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Attachment C provides a plant flow schematic.
Following disinfection, the wastewater flows through a 21-acre constructed
wetland (Moorhen Marsh) for “polishing” treatment to remove ammonia and
other pollutants before being discharged to Peyton Slough at Discharge
Point 001. The average discharge flow for July 2016 through April 2021 was
1.3 MGD.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is thickened, anaerobically
digested, dewatered in a centrifuge, and placed as alternative daily cover at a
landfill. Seasonally, sludge volume is further reduced in drying beds prior to
placement in the landfill. Runoff from the drying beds is collected and pumped
back to the headworks.
2.1.4. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all
stormwater flows that contact equipment or sewage at the plant and the pump
stations serving the plant are collected and directed to the plant headworks for
treatment.
2.1.5 Changes During Previous Order Term. The Discharger made the following
plant upgrades during the previous order term:
· Biotower Feed Pump Improvements: The Discharger replaced one pump,
rehabilitated another, replaced all three pumps’ guide rails, and replaced all
three discharge elbows and associated piping in the Biotower wet well.
Construction began in August 2020 and was

[Page 64]
The Discharger violated its instantaneous minimum pH limit on December 22
and 23, 2017. The Discharger had increased the rate at which it fed biosolids
into the digester, which increased the use of the biosolids dewatering
centrifuge, which in turn increased the amount of ammonia returned to the plant
headworks in the centrate side stream. The increased ammonia load to the
biotower removed more alkalinity during nitrification, which in turn reduced the
effluent pH. The Discharger has since modified its standard operating
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 65]
Mt. View Sanitary District Order R2-2021-0026
Mt. View Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0037770
procedure to now add alkalinity (as sodium bicarbonate) when the biosolids
centrifuge is run more than four hours per day. Neither violation was “serious”
or “chronic” as defined under California Water Code section 13385, and the
Regional Water Board took no further enforcement.
The Discharger violated its daily maximum total ammonia limit on June 5 and 6,
2018, during essential biotower maintenance that took place from June 4
through June 8, 2018. Construction work associated with the Moorhen Marsh
Western Pond Turtle Habitat Enhancement Project took one pond (Pond A) out
of service. The Discharger intended to use the four remaining ponds (Ponds B,
C, D, and E) during the biotower maintenance. However, on June 6, the
Discharger discovered a distribution pipe to Ponds C, D, and E had ruptured,
causing all flow to go to Pond B. Pond B was insufficient to treat the flow of
wastewater not treated by the biotower, causing the ammonia violations. The
Discharger repaired the ruptured pipe by June 7, 2018, thereby ensuring
sufficient treatment capacity in Moorhen Marsh for all future biotower
maintenance. The Regional Water Board issued Order R2-2019-1004 on
May 16, 2019, assessing the Discharger a $3,000 mandatory minimum penalty

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger plans or is in the process of making the
following operational changes at the treatment plant:
· UV Disinfection Replacement: The Discharger plans to replace the existing
UV disinfection system equipment and controls with new equipment and
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-10
[Page 68]
Mt. View Sanitary District Order R2-2021-0026
Mt. View Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0037770
controls. Design work is currently in progress and is scheduled to conclude in
fall 2021, with the bid period and construction to immediately follow. Project
completion is expected by spring 2023.
· Centrifuge Replacement: The Discharger plans to replace the existing
centrifuge equipment and controls with new sludge dewatering equipment and
controls. Project design is planned to begin in fall 2021, with the bid period and
construction to follow in spring 2023.
· Headworks Automatic Screening Rebuild: The Discharger plans to rebuild
the headworks automatic screening mechanism. Project design is planned to
begin in fall 2021, with the bid period and construction to follow in spring 2023.
· Nutrient Removal in Moorhen Marsh: The Discharger plans to install
additional Floating Treatment IslandsTM in Moorhen Marsh to enhance nutrient
removal. Study design began in summer 2021, and a nutrient removal strategy
is expected to be completed by summer 2022. Construction is expected by
2023.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code
article 4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with § 13260). This Or