[Page 5]
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The Blacklake WRF is a Class I Aerated Pond System. The treatment system is
composed of conveyance piping, lift stations, solids screening, aerated ponds, chlorine
contact chambers, and an effluent storage pond. The system is described in detail
below and a summary is included in Table 2. A facility site map and dispersal system
layout are shown in Attachment 2.
A12-inch influent PVC gravity sewer line delivers sewage to the plant. Flow is divided
over two parallel comminutors. The comminutors are desiged to grind large solids that
pass through a bar screen and are operated continuously. If one or both comminutors
becomes clogged or is out of services, water level will rise in the influent channel and
flow over a slide gate into a bypass channel containing a manual bar screen.
Wastewater flows by gravity through an 8-inch pipe from the headworks to the aerated
ponds. Aerated ponds provide both primary and secondary treatment. The three HDPE-
lined partially-mixed aerated ponds are operated in series. The ponds contain splasher-
type aerators. Water levels are controlled at a depth of 9.5 feet utilizing an effluent weir
in the third pond.
An 8-inch SDR-35 PVC pipeline carries flow from the Pond 3 effluent weir box to the
chlorine contact basin for disinfection. Treated wastewater is reused for irrigation at the
adjacent golf course. A chlorine solution is injected into the mixing chamber and mixed
with an air sparger. Flow can then be split into two chlorine contact basins. Each contact
chamber is baffled and designed for a minimum of 20 minutes contact time at 200,000
gpd, to provide redudancy during peak flows. The effluent flow rate is measured at the
end of each contact basin with a v-notch flume flow meter. Each contact chamber has a
dedicated flow meter. Grab samples are collected and analyzed to measure chlorine
levels.
Although Nipomo Blacklake CSD was not required to monitor influent flows per Order
No. 94-14, the General Permit requires influent flow monitoring. Flow rate of wastewater
discharged to the headworks must not exceed 100,000 gpd as a monthly average. The
- 2 -
[Page 6]
Blacklake Water Reclamation Facility May 31, 2023
Attachment 1
Central Coast Water Board understand that the district will need to install influent flow
meters or demonstrate how influent flow does not exceed a monthly average of 100,000
gpd.
Sludge is dewatered onsite with a portable centrifuge and the biosolids are hauled
offsite to Liberty Composting, Inc., in Lost Hills, CA. The facility has not dewatered and
removed biosolids since 2019 when 338 tons of sludge were removed from Aerated
Pond #2 and 93 tons of sludge were removed from Aerated Pond #3.
Table 2. Permitted Pond Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
Permitted Design Influent Monthly Average Flow - 100,000 gallons per day
Flows Influent Maximum Daily Flow - 200,000 gallons per day
Two parallel comminutors grind large solids. If one or both
Headworks/Preliminary comminutors becomes clogged or is out of services,
Treatment wastewater flows over a slide gate into a bypass channel
containing a manual bar screen.
Aerated ponds provide both primary and secondary
Treatment treatment. Treatment consists of three paritially-mixed
areation ponds with splasher- type aerators.
Two chlorine contact basins designed for a minimum of 20
Disinfection minutes contact time at 200,000 gpd, to provide redudancy
during peak flows
Effluent is pumped to a lined effluent storage pond and
used as irrigation for a golf course.
Effluent Storage
Off spec water is recirculated back into the treatment
ponds.
Effluent is used to irrigate approximently 45 acres of
Disposal
Blacklake Golf Resort.
Biosolids/Sludge Sludge is dewatered onsite with a portable centrifuge and
Production and the biosolids are hauled offsite to Liberty Composting, Inc.,
Handling in Lost Hills, CA.
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Nipomo CSD must operate the facility in accordance with the General Permit4 and this
notice of applicability.5 Nipomo CSD must comply with the site-specific limits listed in
Table 3.
4 General Permit sections B.2, B.4, and B.6 are not applicable for this facility.
5 General Permit section B.1.b. state

===PLANNED CHANGES===

