[Page 3]
4. District Service Area - According to the report of waste discharge, the District’s
population is 12,148. The Southland Treatment Facility currently provides wastewater
treatment to 2,465 connections in the District’s boundaries and 519 connections
within San Luis Obispo County Services Area 1. Attachment B of this Order
delineates the District’s service area, which includes both the water and sewer
service area. The Southland Treatment Facility has a maximum permitted capacity
of 0.9 million gallons per day based on a peak monthly flows. The proposed facility
upgrades are not proposed to increase peak monthly flows or the service area
boundary.
5. Treatment and Disposal – Currently, the Southland Treatment Facility treats
wastewater via two grinders, four aerated lagoons, and eight infiltration basins. Solids
are dried in two sludge drying beds (refer to Attachment C). Current design capacity
of the facility is 900,000 gallons per day.
Section 4.2 of the District’s report of waste discharge includes a description of its
anticipated facility upgrade to be constructed in 2013. The District’s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed
upgrades will improve effluent quality while maintaining the permitted monthly flows of
900,000 gallons per day. The proposed upgrades will include primary solids removal
via shaftless screw screen and grit classifier, extended aeration via a Parkson Biolac ®
system, secondary clarifiers, and percolation via infiltration basins (refer to Attachment
D of this Order). Solids handling will include a polymer system for sludge conditioning
and gravity belt thickener. After thickening, the sludge will be sent to lined sludge
drying beds. Dried sludge will be hauled to a designated off-site location.
GEOLOGY, SOILS, AND GROUNDWATER
6. Soils and Groundwater – The infiltration basins are located on level topography
consisting mainly of sandy soils. According to recent geotechnical investigations, a
mound of perched treated effluent (groundwater) beneath the infiltration basins is at an
approximate depth of 35 feet below ground