[Page 9]
4. Field calibration reports are maintained and available for at least three years.
POND SYSTEM MONITORING
Influent Monitoring
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of
the wastewater and flow rate prior to entering the treatment ponds. At a minimum,
influent monitoring shall consists of the following:
Table 1 – Influent Monitoring
Sample Sampling Reporting
Constituent Units Type Frequency Frequency
Flow gpd Metered Continuous Quarterly
EC µmhos/cm Grab Monthly Quarterly
BOD mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Annually Annually
[Page 10]
Tranquillity Public Utility District - 3 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
MRP 2014-0153-DWQ-R5361
Effluent Monitoring
Effluent samples shall be taken from the last lagoon in the treatment train that contains
wastewater. At a minimum, effluent monitoring shall consist of the following:
Table 2 – Effluent Monitoring
Sample Sampling Reporting
Constituent Units Type Frequency Frequency
pH s.u. Grab Monthly Quarterly
EC µmhos/cm Grab Monthly Quarterly
BOD mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Annually
Wastewater Pond Monitoring
All wastewater treatment and disposal ponds shall be monitored as specified below:
Table 3 – Pond Monitoring
Sample Sampling Reporting
Constituent Units Type Frequency Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
(see 1 below)
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Weekly Quarterly
Odors -- Observation Weekly Quarterly
Berm Condition -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
1. DO shall be measured between 8:00 am and 10:00 am and shall be taken
opposite the pond inlet at a depth of approximately one foot, when there is
sufficient water in the pond(s). If there is insufficient water in the pond(s) no
sample shall be collected and the reason provided in the quarterly monitoring
report. Should the DO be below 1.0 mg/L during a monthly sampling event, the
Discharger shall take all reasonable steps to correct the problem and commence
daily DO monitoring in the affected ponds until the problem has been resolved.
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids, ect) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the
name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste
transported, the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name
and address, and copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste.
These records shall be submitted as part of the annual

===PLANNED CHANGES===

