[Page 1]
31 housing units on the east of Road 28 ½ and an industrial park on the north of
Avenue 19 ½. The WWTF is show in Attachment A, which is incorporated by reference
and considered part of this Notice of Applicability (NOA).
According to the August 2019 RWD, the WWTF can treat a daily flow of 31,000 gpd and
currently has estimated flows of 28,000 gpd. The WWTF consists of one lift station, and
four unlined ponds. Wastewater from the lift station typically flows into Pond 1. After
Pond 1, the wastewater flows to Ponds 2, 3, and 4. The wastewater treatment flow
schematic is show in on Attachment B.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Order 2014-0153-DWQ, with all
attachments, and MRP No. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5326.
In accordance with Section B.1 of the General Order, treated wastewater discharged to
the ponds shall not exceed a monthly average daily discharge of 31,000 gallons
per day (gpd).
The General Order states in Section B.1.I that the Discharger shall comply with the
setbacks described in Table 3 of the General Order. This table summarizes different
setback requirements for wastewater treatment system equipment, activities, land
application areas, and storage and/or treatment ponds from sensitive receptors and
property lines where applicable. The Discharger shall comply with the applicable
setback requirements, as summarized in the following table:
Table 1 - Site-Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic Property
Well Line
Impoundment (undisinfected
150 ft 50 ft
secondary wastewater)
The Discharger shall comply with the pond system requirements in Section B.5 of the
General Order. Section B.5.a states that sufficient freeboard shall be maintained at all
times in ponds to provide adequate storage capacity and prevent wastewater spills.
Freeboard shall be measured vertically from the lowest elevation of the pond berm to
the pond water surface. Section B.5.d states that objectionable odors shall not create
nuisance conditions beyond the limits of the wastewater treatment facility. A dissolved
oxygen concentration of less than 1.0 mg/L in the upper one foot of any wastewater
pond shall be evidence of the potential to generate objectionable odors.
The proposed discharge has a flow rate that exceeds 20,000 gpd and a nitrogen
evaluation was conducted as described in Attachment 1 of the General Order to
determine if nitrogen effluent limits are required. The attached memorandum includes a
nitrogen effluent limit evaluation. Based on the evaluation, nitrogen limits are not
nec

===PLANNED CHANGES===

