[Page 1]
DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The NPS owns and operates the WWTF. Domestic wastewater is generated from a visitor
center, offices, maintenance facilities, and employee housing units, and is conveyed to the
Facility for treatment and disposal. The current Facility consists of a headworks, outdoor
extended aeration package plant, two modified treatment ponds, and a chlorine contact
tank. From the chlorine contact tank, disinfected secondary effluent is pumped to a 2.3-acre
spray field for disposal. The total available acreage at the spray field is approximately 4.5
acres; however, the Discharger only uses a portion of the spray field.
The upgraded Facility features a covered headworks, an equalization tank, a pre-anoxic
tank, two recirculating textile filters, two concrete vaults, a lift station, a 350,000-gallon
storage tank, and an existing 4.5-acre spray field for disposal. Currently, approximately
2.3-acres of the spray field receives disinfected secondary effluent, while the remaining
2.2-acres are undeveloped. Settled sludge from the equalization tank will be removed
annually using either a pumper truck or contracted hauler and disposed offsite.
[Page 2]
USDI, National Park Service 3 3 November 2025
Sequoia Kings Canyon National Parks
Ash Mountain WWTF
2014-0153-DWQ-R5410
FACILITY-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger shall maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this NOA, General Ord

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgrades to the treatment system.
According to the RWD, the Discharger replaced the current open-air concrete
[Page 18]
USDI, National Park Service 3 3 November 2025
Sequoia Kings Canyon National Parks
Ash Mountain WWTF
Staff Memorandum
headworks with new concrete inline influent measurement components, and a covered
structure will be constructed over the headworks to shield the apparatus from wet
weather. Effluent from the headworks will be discharged into an existing aeration basin
that has been repurposed to function as an equalization tank. The equalization tank will
have a depth of 12 feet and a usable capacity of 19,300 gallons. The existing lined
ponds will be filled in to provide pads to build, service, and operate the new treatment
system and storage tank. Effluent from the equalization tank will be discharged to a
secondary biological treatment system consisting of a pre-anoxic tank followed by a
recirculating textile filter (RTF) system featuring two Orenco AX-MAX treatment tanks
operating in parallel. After secondary treatment, effluent will flow through a new
ultraviolet disinfection (UV) system housed in a new generator/control building. The UV
disinfection system is replacing the existing chlorination treatment.
The April 2022 RWD initially proposed to install a 100,000-gallon storage tank to
replace the open-air ponds; however, Central Valley Water Board staff (Staff) reviewed
the water balance included in the report and had concerns with the Facility’s ability to
store effluent during wet-weather events. As a result, the basis of design document
submitted by HECO Engineers proposed to increase the size of the storage tank to
350,000 gallons to store treated effluent during wet weather events.
Two concrete vau