[Page 1]
1. Facility and Discharge Description. The Facility is located in Campo, an
unincorporated community located in southeastern San Diego County, within the
Campo Hydrologic Area (911.8) of the Tijuana Hydrologic Unit. The General
Order and this NOA regulate the discharge of waste from small wastewater
treatment systems and prescribe monitoring requirements for the treatment and
discharge of domestic wastewater. The Facility OWTS consists of a grease
interceptor, Imhoff tank, dosing tank, trickling filter, two secondary clarifiers,
solids contact tank, anoxic selector tank, effluent tank, eight percolations beds,
and two sludge drying beds. The maximum ten-year average flowrate for the
Facility is approximately 76,000 gallons per day (gpd). The effluent is circulated
to percolations beds located 0.5 mile from the Facility. The groundwater quality
monitoring network consists of five groundwater monitoring wells.
2. California Environmental Quality Act. The proposed project is the enrollment
of the Facility in the General Order. As such, the project is categorically exempt
from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to title
14, California Code of Regulations, section 15301, and in compliance with title
14, California Code of Regulations, s

[Page 4]
January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1.
c. Monitoring for TDS and Nitrate can be assessed by the Discharger after eight reporting
periods and a request for reduction in monitoring frequency, as appropriate, submitted to
the San Diego Water Board in writing.
e. Wastewater Storage Pond Monitoring. The Discharger must monitor the
wastewater pond system when the pond is in use. Wastewater pond
monitoring must consist of the following:
s
Table 6: Wastewater torage Pond Monitorina
Constituent Units Sample Type Sample Reporting
Freauencv a, b Freauency b, c
Dissolved Oxyqen mq/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Freeboard Quarterly Quarterly
Odors Quarterly Quarterly
Berm Conditions Quarterlv Quarterly
Table Notes:
a. Monthly is defined as a calendar month.
b. Annually is defined as a period of 12 consecutive calendar months beginning on
January 1.
c. Quarterly is defined

===PLANNED CHANGES===

