[Page 1]
EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTF is located at 7466 Leslie Court, Valley Springs, in the community of Southworth
Ranch Estates approximately three miles southwest of Burson and seven miles west of Valley
Springs in Calaveras County, as shown on Attachment A, which is incorporated herein.
The WWTF provides wastewater treatment and disposal service to Southworth Ranch Estates
development, which is comprised of approximately sixty single family residential properties.
The Discharger owns and is responsible for operation and maintenance of the sewer
collection system, treatment system, effluent storage, and land application areas (LAAs).
Wastewater is collected, and initially treated via residential septic tanks. The decant
wastewater from residential septic tanks is conveyed to the WWTF for further treatment and
disposal. The WWTF consists of recirculation filters and tanks, a chlorine contact basin
(disinfection will be eliminated, see attached Memorandum), an effluent storage pond,
6.7 acres of LAAs, and a tailwater control system. When constructed in 1990, the WWTF was
designed for an average flow of 16,000 gallons per day (gpd). The site plan and process
schematic are shown on Attachments B and C, respectively, which are incorporated herein.
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger shall comply with all applicable sections in the General Order, including:
1. Requirement

[Page 7]
EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTF is located at 7466 Leslie Court, Valley Springs, in Calaveras County (Section
T04N, R09E, Section 35, MDB&M). The Assessor’s Parcel Numbers (APN) is 048-075-010
and 048-075-007.
The service area of the WWTF is approximately 410 acres. Each customer connection
includes a 1,250-gallon, two-chamber septic tank and pump system. Customer septic systems
are installed by the Discharger or by contractor per CCWD Standards and inspected by the
CCWD prior to acceptance. As of late 2019, the WWTF provided treatment for 57 Equivalent
Dwelling Units (EDU) comprised of residential services. Buildout for the community is
estimated at 64 connections. Influent wastewater from the residential community is biologically
stabilized by two recirculation packed bed filters (RPBF). These filters include recirculation
tanks, pump station, and flow splitter structure. Minimum recirculation rate is five to one versus
[Page 8]
influent rate. Treated wastewater from RPBF was disinfected using liquid sodium hypochlorite
via a 2,000-gallon chlorine contact basin then stored at the effluent storage pond. Total
effluent storage capacity is approximately 9.0 acre-feet, excluding two feet of freeboard and
dead pool volume. Disposal of effluent is accomplished by a combination of pond evaporation
and land irrigation with spray irrigation equipment. There are no groundwater monitoring wells
at the WWTF.
The WWTF contains a tailwater control system, including a tailwater collection basin, a pump
system, and a levee in the downgradient of LAAs as shown in Attachment B. The tailwater
collection basin has a surface area of 144 square feet (12 feet by 12 feet). The tailwater in the
basin could be returned to the effluent storage pond and replied to the LAAs.
Average flow measured from 2015 through 2019 ranged from 9,000 to 14,200 gallons per day
(gpd) as an annual average flow. Based on the 2015 through 2019 monthly monitoring
reports, the effluent had an average of BOD5 concentration of 2.0 mg/L. MRP 90-258 does
not contain monitoring requirements for salinity, nitrate and total kjeldahl nitrogen
concentrations. Therefore, t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

