[Page 1]
1. FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Facility is located at 33129 Cole Grade Road, Pauma Valley, California, within
the Pauma Hydrologic Sub-Area of the Monserate Hydrologic Area of the San Luis
Rey Hydrologic Unit. The Facility’s onsite wastewater treatment system consists of
an Aero-Mod package treatment plant operating as two parallel domestic
wastewater treatment trains, each with multiple stage aeration basins, aerobic
digesters, and clarifiers. The effluent from both treatment trains discharges to four
onsite percolation ponds. The maximum five-year average effluent flowrate for the
Facility is approximately 60,000 gallons per day (gpd).
2. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
The General Order regulates new and existing small domestic wastewater treatment
systems. In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and
consistent with Finding No. 32.a of the General Order, the action to enroll the Facil

[Page 4]
5) The Discharger must collect samples from the monitoring well network as
proposed.
e. Wastewater Storage Pond Monitoring. The Discharger must monitor the
wastewater storage pond system, i.e. percolation ponds, when the pond is in
use. Wastewater storage pond monitoring must consist of the following:
[Page 5]
Mr. Graziano - 6 - May 12, 2021
Table 4: Wastewater Storage Pond Monitoring
Constituent Units Sample Sample Reporting
Type Frequency1 Frequency *
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Freeboard2 Feet NA Quarterly Quarterly
Odors NA NA Quarterly Quarterly
Berm Conditions NA NA Quarterly Quarterly
Table Notes:
1) Quarterly is defined as a period of three consecutive calendar months
beginning on January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.
2) Sufficient freeboard shall be maintained at all times in ponds to provide
adequate storage capacity and prevent wastewater spills. Freeboard shall be
measured vertically from the lowest elevation of the pond berm to the pond
water surface.
6. VOLUMETRIC MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
The Discharger must report the following information in accordance with section 3 of
the Water Quality Policy for Recycled Water.
a. Influent Monitoring. Monthly volume of wastewater collected by the wastewater
treatment plant.
b. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of treatment.
c. Discharge. Monthly volume of t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

