[Page 64]
Existing Novato Plant: 6.55 million gallons per day (mgd) (average dry weather
flow design capacity), 9 mgd (secondary treatment capacity)
Facility Design Flow Upgraded Novato Plant: 7.05 mgd (average dry weather flow design capacity)
after tasks in Provision VI.C.4.c are completed, 47 mgd (secondary treatment
wet weather capacity)
Watershed San Pablo Bay
Receiving Water San Pablo Bay
Receiving Water Type Estuarine
Service Area City of Novato
Service Area Population 60,000
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 65]
Novato Sanitary District ORDER NO. R2-2010-0074
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0037958
A. The Novato Sanitary District (hereinafter, the Discharger) is the owner and operator of the Novato
Wastewater Treatment Plant (Novato Plant) and its associated collection system, and the Ignacio
Wastewater Treatment Plant (Ignacio Plant) and its associated collection system. The Ignacio Plant
provides secondary treatment of wastewater, and the effluent from this facility flows to the Novato
Plant, which provides secondary treatment of the combined influent wastewater, and discharges to
San Pablo Bay. The plants treat wastewater from a primarily residential service area serving the
City of Novato and adjacent areas with a current population of about 60,000.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable federal
and state laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references to the Discharger
herein.
B. The discharge of treated wastewater from the Novato Plant to San Pablo Bay, a water of the State
and the United States, was previously regulated by Order No. R2-2004-0093 (NPDES Permit No.
CA0037851), which was adopted on September 15, 2004, became effective on December 1, 2004,
and was amended by Order No. R2-2008-0026 on May 14, 2008. Order No. R2-2004-0093 expired
on December 31, 2009 and has been administratively extended.
C. The Discharger filed a Report of Waste Discharge and submitted a complete application for renewal
of its Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) permit dated June 30, 2009.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. Facility Description. Treatment processes at the Novato Plant include influent pumping,
influent screening, flow measurement and grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge
secondary treatment in the three existing circular aeration basins and two circular secondary
clarifiers, ammonia removal through the existing bio-tower, chlorination (with sodium
hypochlorite), and dechlorination (with sodium bisulfite) at a dechlorination facility about ½
mile east of the Ignacio Plant.
The Discharger operates the Ignacio Plant, located at 445 Bel Marin Keys Blvd., Novato, as a
roughing plant, which means treated wastewater from the Ignacio Plant is conveyed to the
Novato Plant for further treatment. Treatment processes at the Ignacio Plant include primary
clarification, biofiltration, subsequent clarification, nitrification, gravity filtration, and chlorine
disinfection.
The Discharger’s wastewater collection system collects and transports wastewater flows to the
plants through a series of gravity sewers and interceptors, pump stations, and force mains,
designed to handle peak wet weather flows. The Discharger’s wastewater collection systems
include approximately 200 miles of sewer lines and 35 wastewater pump stations.
2. Discharge Description. The Novato Plant has an average dry weather flow (ADWF) design
capacity of 6.55 mgd and can treat up to 9 mgd flow with full secondary treatment. When
influent flow exceeds the secondary treatment capacity of the Novato Plant, flows above 9 mgd
and up to 16 mgd receive primary treatment, gravity filtration and disinfection, and flows
exceeding 16 mgd receive gravity filtration and chlorine disinfection. These flows are blended
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 66]
Novato Sanitary District ORDER NO. R2-2010-0074
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0037958
with secondary treated wastewater prior to discharge. From January 2006 through April 2009,
the average and daily maximum flow rates from the Novato plant were 5.3 and 22.96 mgd.
The Ignacio Plant has an ADWF design capacity of 2.02 mgd and a peak wet weather design
flow capacity of 4.04 mgd. From January 2006 through March 2008, the average and daily
maximum flow rates from the Ignacio Plant were 1.89 and 7.75 mgd.
The Discharger completed additional engineering analyses, an Environmental Impact Report,
and an antidegradation analysis for facility construction to increase full secondary treatment
capacity at the Novato Plant to 7.05 mgd (ADWF). This Order authorizes this capacity increase
after the Discharger completes all construction and the tasks specified in Provision VI.C.4.c of
this Order. The facility improvements will result in all treatment occurring at the Novato Plant.
The upgraded Novato Plant (discussed below) will provide secondary treatment for 47 mgd wet
weather flow. There will be no blending at the new upgraded Novato Plant. When construction
is complete, influent flows currently conveyed to the Ignacio Plant will be rerouted to the
Novato plant, and the Ignacio Plant will be decommissioned.
3. Discharge Location. From September 1 to May 31, treated wastewater can be discharged from
the Novato Plant to the intertidal zone of San Pablo Bay at Discharge Point 001 through a
multiport diffuser located approximately 950 feet offshore. The diffuser is submerged at the +1
foot mean lower low water tidal elevation. At lower tidal elevations, the outfall is exposed, and
the distance from the end of the diffuser to the San Pablo Bay water line can range from 1000 to
3500 feet. During these times of lower tidal elevation, the discharge does not receive an initial
dilution of 10:1, and is therefore classified as a shallow water discharge. In accordance with
Basin Plan Table 4-1, shallow water discharges are prohibited. Discharge to San Pablo Bay
from June 1 through August 31 is prohibited. During this period, effluent is discharged to
storage ponds for irrigating the Discharger-owned pasturelands. As described in section IV.B,
this Order grants an exception to the discharge prohibition from September 1 through May 31.
4. Treatment Facilities Upgrade Project. The Discharger is currently undergoing a major multi-
year Treatment Facilities Upgrade Project, at a cost of $90 million, which it expects to be
complete by 2011. The Upgrade project will result in all of the Discharger’s wastewater
treatment capabilities being consolidated at its Novato Plant. In the interim, the Discharger
operates the existing Novato Plant as the main wastewater treatment plant, with its other
treatment facility, the Ignacio Plant, being operated mainly as a roughing plant, pending the
completion of the Upgrade Project and decommissioning of the Ignacio Plant.
In this interim operation mode, treated effluent from the Ignacio Plant is pumped up to the
Novato Plant by the Ignacio Transfer Pump Station (ITPS) through the Ignacio Conveyance
Force Main (ICFM). The construction of the ITPS and ICFM was completed about March 2008
as part of the Upgrade Project. The construction of the ITPS at the Ignacio Plant site included
the construction of equalization capability for either treated effluent or raw influent and
capability for a portion or all of the Ignacio Plant influent to be pumped directly to the Novato
Plant.
As of April 2010, the construction of the Novato Plant upgrade is about 85% complete. The
following treatment processes or units are completed and in service:
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 67]
Novato Sanitary District ORDER NO. R2-2010-0074
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0037958
• Waste activated sludge thickening process with two gravity belt thickeners;
• New influent pump station;
• New headworks facility with two mechanical filter screens and a manual bar rack for
influent screening, Parshall flumes for influent flow measurement, and two grit basins
each with a mechanical grit vortex system;
• New primary clarifier;
• Aeration basins 1 & 2, including its blower systems;
• Secondary clarifiers 1 & 2;
• RAS/WAS pump station;
• UV disinfection facility; and
• Effluent pump station and auxiliary facilities.
Other new treatment units will include another new primary clarifier, two aeration basins
(3 & 4), second primary digester, and second primary clarifier.
5. Reclamation Activities. The Discharger’s reclamation system includes two storage ponds with
a combined storage capacity of 180 million gallons, a wildlife marsh pond, an irrigation pump
station, and 820 acres of irrigated pasturelands. Regional Water Board Order No. 92-065
establishes limitations and conditions regarding the reclamation uses of treated wastewater in
the reclamation system.
6. Biosolids Management. The solids handling at the Novato Plant includes the new gravity belt
waste activated sludge thickening, anaerobic digestion of primary sludge and thickened waste
activated sludge in the existing primary digester, and removal of digested sludge to storage at
the sludge lagoons at the Discharger’s reclamation site. Sludge is treated at the Ignacio Plant
through primary anaerobic digestion followed by thickening in storage ponds. Thickened sludge
from both plants is land applied at a 14.4-acre dedicated land disposal site located near the
reclamation area.
7. Storm Water Discharge. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES permit for storm water discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) because all storm water flows in contact with
equipm

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is currently undergoing facility upgrades that augment its treatment capacity at
the Novato Plant. The Discharger has completed an Environmental Impact Report and an
antidegradation analysis for facility construction to increase full secondary capacity to 7.05 mgd.
The Novato Plant improvements include construction of the following new facilities: headworks,
influent pump station, two primary clarifiers, two aeration basins, two secondary clarifiers, UV
disinfection unit, gravity belt thickener, second digester, odor control facilities, and electrical
facilities. Once construction is complete, the Ignacio Plant will be decommissioned and all
influent flows will be routed to the Novato Plant. The remaining schedule of improvements is as
follows:
June 30, 2010 Complete two aerations basins
December 31, 2010 Complete second primary clarifiers and second digester.
June 30, 2011 Place all treatment plant improvements into operation.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
This Order’s requirements are based on the requirements and authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to federal Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and implementing
regulations adopted by the USEPA and chapter 5.5, division 7, of the