[Page 56]
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 7.0 million gallon per day (MGD). During 2013, the daily average
influent flow ranged between 3.3 and 6.5 MGD. On average, the plant provided secondary
treatment for 4.2 MGD. Treatment processes consist of influent pumping, influent screening,
flow measurement and grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge secondary
treatment followed by secondary clarifiers, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. By design,
during wet weather, the plant can provide secondary treatment for a sustained 3-hour peak
flow of up to 47 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The plant produces about 850 dry metric tons of biosolids
per year. Solids handling includes gravity belt waste activated sludge thickening, anaerobic
digestion of primary sludge and thickened waste activated sludge, and removal of digested
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 57]
Novato Sanitary District ORDER No. R2-2015-0034
Novato Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037958
sludge to storage at sludge lagoons. Biosolids are land-applied onsite at a 14.4-acre dedicated
land disposal site east of the treatment plant (see Attachment B).
5. Reclamation Activities. The Discharger’s reclamation system includes two storage ponds with
a combined storage capacity of 180 million gallons, a wildlife pond, an irrigation pump station,
and 820 acres of irrigated pasturelands. From June 1 through August 31 (and typically longer),
the Discharger diverts effluent into the two storage ponds. Effluent from these ponds meets
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, section 60304(d) standards and is used to irrigate the
pasturelands, which are used for beef cattle grazing and irrigated hay production. Alternatively,
plant effluent is diverted for additional treatment to produce tertiary-treated effluent for golf
course irrigation and other uses. This water meets California Code of Regulations, Title 22,
section 60304(a) standards. Regional Water Board Order No. 92-065 specifies the requirements
for the Discharger’s reclamation activities. Any surplus water in the storage ponds not used for
reclamation may be discharged through Discharge Point No. 001.
6. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) because all stormwater flows in contact with
equipment or sewage at the plant and the pump stations serving the plant is collected and
directed to the headworks of the plant for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Discharge of treated effluent to San Pablo Bay is through a multiport diffuser currently located
approximately 950 feet offshore at Discharge Point No. 001. The diffuser is submerged at the +1
foot mean lower low water tidal elevation. At lower tidal elevations, the outfall is exposed, and the
distance from the diffuser to the San Pablo Bay water line can range from 1,000 to 3,500 feet.
From June 1 through August 31 effluent is sent to the two storage ponds and reclaimed. Discharge
is prohibited during this timeframe except when effluent volume will exceed reclamation water
demand. When this occurs, the Discharger discharges from the storage ponds any surplus water not
used for reclamation through a pipeline connected to Discharge Point No. 001.
C. Discharge Relocation
The Discharger proposes to move its discharge approximately 1.2 miles inland to a new marsh
system on the Bel Marin Keys Unit V property in southeast Novato (see Attachment B). The State
Coastal Conservancy intends to create approximately 1,750 acres of brackish and tidal ma

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects during the term of this Order. These
changes are for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the
extent that they pertain to ensuring treatment or wastewater collection system reliability. Their
inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger must obtain any
necessary permits or permit modifications to implement these changes.
1. Discharge Relocation and Recycled Water Storage Pond. The Discharger has plans to
relocate its discharge to create and support new brackish marsh habitat as part of a State Coastal
Conservancy wetland restoration project. Also as part of this project, the Discharger and the
State Coastal Conservancy are considering construction of a new recycled water storage pond.
2. Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrades. The Discharger proposes minor improvements,
including additional odor control testing and validation, landscape improvements, solids
handling improvements, corrosion control improvements, and general corrosion protection
work.
3. Pump Station Rehabilitation. The Discharger is currently replacing its underground pump
stations with submersible pumps.
4. Late