[Page 73]
II. Facility Description
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The City of Lompoc Regional Wastewater Reclamation Plant is a municipal wastewater
collection, treatment, and disposal facility that discharges tertiary treated wastewater to
San Miguelito Creek. Located at the northwest corner of the City of Lompoc adjacent to
San Miguelito Creek, the Facility provides sewerage service to approximately 53,050
municipal and industrial users from the City of Lompoc, Vandenberg Air Force Base, and
Vandenberg Village Community Services District (VVCSD). The wastewater generated
from the service area is approximately 90 percent domestic and 10 percent from
commercial, light industrial and military sources. The permitted dry weather flow capacity
of the Facility is 5.0 MGD, and during the last five years the Facility treated an average of
2.9 MGD before major facility upgrades were completed in November 2009 and 3.5 MGD
after upgrades were completed.
The Discharger currently operates and retains responsibility for the wastewater collection
system within the City of Lompoc, which includes two lift stations. Vandenberg Air Force
Base and Vandenberg Village Community Services District retain ownership and direct
responsibility for wastewater collection and transport up to the point of discharge to the
Facility.
In September 2004, the Discharger began work to upgrade the Facility to discharge
tertiary treated wastewater. Upgrades were completed in November 2009. In the
upgraded facility, raw influent entering the Facility is pumped into the headworks where
solids are separated out through screens. The screened influent is then pumped to the
aerated grit tank where heavy materials are settled out for removal. The water then enters
the two parallel oxidation ditches for biological nitrification and denitrification. The water
then enters the secondary clarifiers and then the tertiary filters. The filtered effluent then
enters the UV disinfection chambers before being discharged into San Miguelito Creek at
Discharge Point No. 001. The Facility also maintains an emergency retention basin for
use during events of disinfection maintenance, spills, and other emergency situations.
Biosolids from the Facility are thickened in two dissolved air floatation thickeners before
being fed to aerobic digesters. The digested material is transferred to a facultative lagoon
before being dried in sludge drying beds. The dried sludge is then shipped offsite for
composting.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 74]
City of Lompoc ORDER NO. R3-2011-0211
City of Lompoc Regional Wastewater Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA0048127
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Tertiary treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point No. 001 to San Miguelito
Creek, approximately 400 yards upstream of its confluence with the Santa Ynez River.
During dry months, the combine

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In June 2009, it was observed that the dissolved oxygen concentration in the oxidation
ditches was falling well below the design criteria and total nitrogen removal was less
than expected due to undersized blowers. To correct this issue, the undersized blowers
were replaced with higher volumetric blowers. However, the new blowers were
oversized, resulting in elevated dissolved oxygen concentrations above design values in
the oxidation ditches. Currently, design engineers are in the process of redesigning
new blowers for improved performance and plan to have them online by mid-2011.
III. Applicable Plans, Policies, and Regulations
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to federal Clean Water Act (CWA)