[Page 1]
Oak Shores Day Use Area. The wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) is located at
5520 Knoxville Road in Napa County as shown on Attachment A, which is attached hereto and
is made part of this NOA by reference. The WWTF consists of multiple septic tanks and two
oxidation-evaporation ponds (Ponds 1 and 2). Each pond is lined with gunite and a reinforced
Hypalon synthetic liner. Ponds 1 and 2 have a combined total capacity of approximately
350,000 gallons. Wastewater from the Administrative Center and Recreation Area restrooms
gravity flow to septic tanks and is then pumped to Pond 1. Pond 2 is used as an overflow for
Pond 1. A spray system is used to aerate the wastewater within the ponds. Gray water (sinks
and showers) from the Administrative Center (except dormitory) and sinks from the Recreation
Area discharge to subsurface leach fields. Leach field locations are shown on Attachment 8,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. Sludge and solids in the
septic tanks are pumped out annually to an approved disposal facility. The site has no
groundwater monitoring wells. Water is supplied by Lake Berryessa.
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITS
Note that the General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
treatment systems as well as those that only apply to specific treatment and/or disposal
systems. The speci

[Page 2]
Treatment Unit Flow Limit as Monthly Average
Pond 1 3,000 gallons per day (gpd)
B.1.1 Wastewater system setbacks.
Ephemeral
Equipment or Domestic Flowing Stream Property Lake or
Activity Well Stream Drainage Line Reservoir
Septic Tank,
Treatment System,
150 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
& Collection
System
2
Leach Field 100 ft. 100 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
Wastewater
Treatment and 150 ft. 150 ft. 150 ft. 50 ft. 200 ft.
Storage Pond(s) 3
1 Reference setbacks from "Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or
Collection System" in Table 3 of General Order.
2 Setbacks referenced under "Leach Field" in Table 3 of the General Order.
3 Reference setbacks from "lmpoundment (undisinfected secondary recycled water)" in
Table 3 of the General Order.
This is an existing facility, constructed prior to the issuance of the new General Order
for Small Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems, and the septic tanks and leach
fields may not be in compliance with the setbacks included in the General Order.
However, the WWTF will still be permitted under this General Order provided that
nuisance conditions do not result from noncompliance. Expansion of a noncomplying
wastewater treatment system shall trigger further evaluation of the setbacks, as
described in Section B.1.1 of the General Order.
8.2 Septic Systems
The WWTF utilizes septic tanks; therefore, this section applies in its entirety.
8.5 Pond Systems
The WWTF utilizes a pond system and evaporation is the sole means of disposal; therefore, this
section applies with the following site-specific requirement.
8.5.a. A minimum of 1.0 foot of freeboard shall be maintained in the ponds at all times.
8.6 Subsurface Disposal Systems
The WWTF utilizes subsurface disposal systems, such as leach fields; therefore, this section
applies in its entirety.
[Page 3]
Drew Lessard -4- 21 June 2018
Admin. Center and Oak Shores Day Use Area
B.8 Sludge/Solids/Biosolids Disposal
The V\/WTF utilizes ponds where solids can accumulate; therefore, this section applies in its
entirety.
Effluent Limitations, Section D of General Order
This section applies in its entirety to the Administrative Center and Oak Shores Day Use Area
V\/WTF and shall include the following site specific limitations.
Effluent Limit Rationale
The pond treatment system is fully lined and evaporation is the sole means of wastewater
disposal; therefore, the pond treatment system is not subject to technology performance
effluent limits as specified in the General Order.
Staff evaluated the need for a total nitrogen effluent limit using the method contained in the
General Order and determined that a nitrogen effluent limit is not necessary because the
monthly average flow will be less than 20,000 gpd and the treatment ponds are concrete­
lined.
Technical Report Preparation Requirements, Provisions Section E.1 of General Order
The following technical reports shall be submitted as described below:
1. By 1 October 2018, the Discharger shall submit a Spill Prevention and Emergency
Response Plan consistent with the requirements of General Order Provision E.1.a.
2. By 1 October 2018, the Discharger shall submit a Samplin

===PLANNED CHANGES===

