[Page 65]
Fairfield, Suisun City, and Travis Air Force Base, and serves a population of
approximately 149,000. The Facility’s permitted average dry weather treatment
capacity is 23.7 million gallons per day (MGD). The Facility discharges primarily to
Boynton Slough, with intermittent discharges to two duck ponds and Ledgewood
Creek, all of which are waters of the United States within the Suisun Basin
watershed tributary to Suisun Marsh and Suisun Bay.
Treatment processes at the Facility include screening and grit removal, primary
sedimentation, optional oxidation towers and clarification for intermediate
treatment, activated sludge, secondary clarification, temporary activated sludge
effluent storage in flow balancing reservoirs, dual media filtration, and ultraviolet
(UV) disinfection. Side stream processes include sludge thickening, anaerobic
digestion, on-site power generation using digester gas, and sludge dewatering.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in
applicable federal and state laws, regulations, plans, and policies are held to be
equivalent to references to the Discharger herein.
1.2. The Discharger is regulated pursuant to NPDES Permit CA0038024. The
Discharger is authorized to discharge subject to the Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDRs) in this Order at the

[Page 66]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The Fairfield-Suisun Wastewater Treatment Plant
is located at 1010 Chadbourne Road in Fairfield, Solano County, and provides
advanced-secondary treatment of wastewater from domestic, commercial, and
industrial sources from the City of Fairfield, City of Suisun City, and Travis Air
Force Base. The Facility serves a population of approximately 149,000.
Attachment B provides maps of the area around the plant.
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer System. The Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District sanitary sewer
system consists of approximately 71 miles of gravity sewer mains (12 inches in
diameter or greater), 15 miles of pressure sewer mains, and 14 pump stations.
The plant also treats wastewater from three satellite sanitary sewer systems,
consisting of sewer lines less than 12 inches in diameter, owned and
maintained by the City of Fairfield, City of Suisun City, and Travis Air Force
Base.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides treatment consisting of preliminary
influent screening and grit removal, primary clarification, optional oxidation
towers (roughing filters) and optional intermediate clarification, biological
activated sludge, secondary clarification, temporary activated sludge effluent
storage in flow balancing reservoirs (total volume 12.7 million gallons [MG]),
advanced secondary dual-media filtration, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the plant.
Influent wastewater is pumped to the plant headworks from four pump stations,
each with a magnetic flow meter. The combined inflow is measured by Parshall
flumes downstream of influent screening. Plant influent contains a small
contribution from plant recycled water.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 67]
Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District Order R2-2025-0028
Fairfield-Suisun Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0038024
The current treatment configuration routes all flow around the oxidation towers
and intermediate clarifiers. The oxidation towers and intermediate clarifiers may
be put back into service depending on influent characteristics to optimize the
performance of the activated sludge process.
To accommodate wet weather flows, the plant also has a 111-MG equalization
storage basin with optional comminution. The plant is designed to provide
containment and advanced secondary treatment of wastewater flows up to the
20-year storm event. The plant is designed to route secondary treated effluent
around the advanced secondary dual media filters located prior to disinfection
when the liquid level in the filter inlet structure exceeds 8.6 feet.
Disinfected effluent is conveyed from the UV disinfection facility to Discharge
Point 001 (and Discharge Points 005 and 006, when needed) or to one of three
earthen final effluent holding ponds with a total volume of 20.4 MG. The plant
may discharge a blend of stored water from the reservoirs and treated
wastewater from the UV disinfection facility.
The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 23.7 MGD and a peak wet
weather capacity of 45 MGD. From May 2020 through August 2024, the plant
treated a daily dry weather average of 12.8 MGD, with the highest reported
average wet weather flow being 39.9 MGD.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary
clarification operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process
consists of gravity belt thickeners for waste activated sludge thickening,
mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and screw presses for dewatering. The
digested and dewatered biosolids are further treated and sold as a biofertilizer
product.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. Stormwater originating on the plant’s grounds is
directed offsite and permitted under the statewide Industrial Storm Water Permit
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001).
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger recycles approximately 5 to 10 percent of the
plant’s treated effluent f

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. During this Order term, the Discharger plans to upgrade its
treatment plant to improve nitrogen removal. Specifically, the Discharger plans to
construct anoxic zones, replace air diffuser systems, and potentially install an
internal mixed-liquor return pumping system in its aeration basins to increase
denitrification.
The Discharger also plans to increase recycled water distribution to nearby
agricultural operations, which may result in the incidental discharge of some
tailwater though a tidal gate at Boynton Slough, creating a new discharge at
Discharge Point 006. The Discharger may also use Discharge Point 006 as an
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 70]
Fairfield-Suisun Sewer District Order R2-2025