[Page 66]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant provides advanced-
secondary treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater from within the City
of American Canyon, and serves a population of about 20,000 people and
several industrial dischargers, including a food processing facility, a winery, and
a beverage bottling company.
The Discharger owns and operates two separate collection systems, one for
domestic wastewater (85 to 90 percent of the influent) and one for industrial
wastewater (10 to 15 percent of the influent). These collection systems include
approximately 54 miles of gravity sewer, 4.9 miles of force main, and five pump
stations.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. Treatment consists of flow equalization and aeration,
micro-screening and grit removal, biological secondary treatment, membrane
filtration, disinfection, and, for discharges at Discharge Point 001, post-
discharge aeration. The plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up to
2.5 MGD and a peak wet weather capacity of 5.0 MGD. From June 2017
through December 2021, the plant treated an average daily flow of 1.5 MGD
and a maximum daily flow of 3.3 MGD. Attachment C provides the plant flow
schematic.
The secondary treatment system consists of four parallel biological treatment
trains, each providing anoxic and aerobic biological treatment, and membrane
filtration. The four treatment trains can be used to segregate domestic
wastewater (Main Aeration Basin) from industrial wastewater (North Aeration
Basin). The Discharger typically operates the plant to combine domestic and
industrial wastewater before secondary treatment but may begin to segregate
domestic wastewater from industrial wastewater more frequently as recycled
water production increases. Treated wastewater discharges are disinfected by
ultraviolet light (UV). Recycled water is disinfected using chlorine (see § 2.1.4.).
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Biosolids generated during the treatment
process are stored in two 5-million-gallon earthen cla

[Page 67]
Canyon High School, and local vineyards use the recycled water for irrigation.
The plant’s recycling facilities include a separate chlorine contact basin used
only to disinfect recycled water, a one-million-gallon storage tank, and a
recently constructed 1.5-million-gallon storage tank; the Discharger also has at
least ten miles of recycled water pipelines.
2.1.5 Stormwater Management. The Discharger directs all onsite stormwater to the
plant headworks for treatment; therefore, coverage under the State Water
Board’s General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Discharges Associated With
Industrial Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) is unnecessary.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Water. The plant either distributes treated
wastewater for recycling or discharges effluent from either Discharge Point 001
to the North Slough or Discharge Point 003 to two constructed wetland ponds
(Pond 1 and Pond 2) tributary to the North Slough. Treated wastewater is
discharged at Discharge Point 001 during the wet season (November 1 through
April 30), but discharge at Discharge Point 001 is prohibited during the dry
season (May 1 through October 31). Treated wastewater is discharged at
Discharge Point 003 year-round. The North Slough and the constructed wetlands
are waters of the United States within the San Pablo Bay watershed.
2.3. Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data. The table below presents the
previous order’s effluent limitations and representative monitoring data from the
previous order term (June 2017 – December 2021):
Table F-2. Existing Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data
Average Average Maximum Highest
Other Long-Term
Parameter Uni

===PLANNED CHANGES===

