[Page 75]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant provides secondary treatment
of domestic and commercial wastewater from the City of Vallejo, the former
Mare Island Naval Facility, and an adjacent unincorporated area. It serves a
population of about 120,000 people. The wastewater collection system consists
of approximately 395 miles of sanitary sewer main lines, 38 pump stations, and
about 78 miles of lower laterals. Attachment B shows a map of the area around
the Facility.
In 2005 and 2006, the Discharger completed significant capital improvement
projects to the collection system to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows from two
constructed wet weather overflow structures, the Sears Point Pump Station
Overflow and the Ryder Street Overflow. The improvements included a
3.0 million gallon (MG) underground storage tank to eliminate sanitary sewer
overflows from the Sears Point Pump Station and an 8.6 MG storage basin
adjacent to the treatment plant to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows from the
Ryder Street Pump Station. When possible, the Discharger operates the
storage basin like an equalization basin to reduce discharges of blended
effluent from the Facility; however, its primary purpose is to reduce and
eliminate sanitary sewer overflows.
During the term of the previous order, the Discharger rehabilitated or replaced
sewer mains, lower laterals, and manholes to reduce infiltration and inflow,
including more than 24,000 feet of sewer mains and 16,000 feet of lower
laterals. The Discharger also financially assisted homeowners to replace 790
upper laterals. The Discharger also intends to complete a Collection System
Master Plan documenting its collection system facilities and their condition, and
recommending actions to further reduce inflow and infiltration, in March 2023.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant’s average dry weather design
capacity for secondary treatment is 15.5 million gallons per day (MGD), and its
peak wet weather capacity for secondary treatment is 35 MGD. The plant has
an additional 25 MGD primary treatment capacity. The plant’s peak wet weather
discharge capacity is 60 MGD (through Discharge Points 001 and 002
combined). Average dry weather flow from 2018 through 2020 was 7.9 MGD.
The daily wet weather flow from November 2017 through April 2021 ranged
from 3.9 to 60 MGD.
Treatment consists of screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation by
circular and rectangular clarifiers, biological treatment by trickling filters followed
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 76]
Vallejo Flood and Wastewater District Order R2-2023-0001
VFWD Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037699
by activated sludge aeration basins, secondary clarification, disinfection by
chlorination, and dechlorination by sodium bisulfite.
Under normal conditions, the plant discharges secondary-treated effluent to
Discharge Points 001 and 002, deepwater outfalls located in Carquinez Strait
and Mare Island Strait; Discharge Point 002 is the primary outfall. During wet
weather, the plant provides full secondary treatment of flows up to 35 MGD and
primary treatment of flows from 35 MGD to 60 MGD. The plant blends primary-
treated effluent with secondary-treated effluent before discharging the blended
effluent to Carquinez Strait via Discharge Point 001. By means of automated
flow splitting, the plant discharges only secondary-treated effluent to Mare
Island Strait via Discharge Point 002 to minimize potential receiving water
impacts. Attachment C provid

[Page 76]
2.1.3. Biosolids Management. The Discharger treats its biosolids by gravity
thickening or co-settling, lime stabilization, and dewatering by belt-filter presses.
The Discharger’s stabilized, dewatered biosolids are hauled offsite for land
application at the Discharger’s Biosolids Utilization Project on Tubbs Island,
Sonoma County. Biosolids are temporarily stockpiled at the Tubbs Island site
and subsequently spread and incorporated into the soil as a soil amendment on
land used for agricultural crop production. Beginning in November 2019, the
Discharger began sending a small portion of its biosolids to the Lystek Organic
Material Recovery Center located at the Fairfield Suisun Sewer District
wastewater treatment plant in Fairfield, California, in Solano County for
incorporation into Lystek’s biosolids-deriv

[Page 76]
2.1.4. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all
stormwater at the plant and pump stations is collected and directed to the
plant’s headworks for treatment.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. Discharge Point 001 – Carquinez Strait. Discharge Point 001 is an ancillary
outfall. It is a submerged diffuser 400 feet from the north shore of Carquinez
Strait near the north end of the Carquinez Bridge at a depth of about 75 feet
below the water surface. It consists of eight 16-inch diameter duckbill discharge
ports elevated 10 feet from the Strait bottom (i.e., a depth of about 65 feet). The
ports are spaced seven feet apart on center on alternating sides of the diffuser.
The ports are at a vertical angle of 0 degrees (i.e., horizontal) and an horizontal
angle of 20 degrees. The discharge receives an initial dilution of approximately
41:1 (see Fact Sheet § 4.3

===PLANNED CHANGES===

