[Page 49]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The Facility is located at 2600 Grant Avenue in
San Lorenzo. It provides secondary treatment and disinfection of domestic and
commercial wastewater from the communities of Castro Valley (serviced by
Castro Valley Sanitary District), San Lorenzo, Ashland, Cherryland, and
Fairview, and portions of the cities of San Leandro and Hayward. The estimated
service area population is about 192,000.
Attachment B provides maps of the area around the plant.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides advanced-secondary treatment for
an average dry weather design flow of 20.0 MGD. The wastewater treatment
process consists of screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated
sludge modified Ludzack-Ettigner nitrification and denitrification, secondary
clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection. Prior to any wet weather or
maintenance exercise discharge, the Discharger will also dechlorinate the
wastewater.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 50]
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Order R2-2024-0006
Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge NPDES Permit CA0037559
Effluent ammonia concentrations may be higher during lower temperature
winter conditions because nitrification (conversion of ammonia to nitrate) is
mediated by specific bacteria that convert ammonia to nitrate less efficiently at
lower temperatures. Effluent ammonia concentrations may also be higher
during peak wet weather events when the nitrifying bacteria are more
susceptible to hydraulic washout. During such events, the plant may not provide
adequate resident time for nitrification and denitrification (i.e., the conversion of
nitrate to nitrogen gas, which is released to the atmosphere). The Discharger
uses available basins to store solids containing the necessary microorganisms
and reduce the potential for washout.
2.1.3. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters. This Order covers intermittent
discharges of secondary-treated, disinfected, and dechlorinated municipal
wastewater to the Discharger’s wet weather outfall. These discharges occur in
Lower San Francisco Bay (Discharge Point 001). During the dry season, the
Discharger provides advanced-secondary treatment and discharges effluent
through the EBDA deepwater outfall.
The wet weather outfall is a shallow-water outfall without a diffuser. The discharge
location is approximately 920 feet offshore. There are two types of discharges
from the shallow-water outfall: (1) discharges during peak wet weather events, and
(2) discharges from maintenance exercises to ensure outfall operability.
The Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement among EBDA and its member agencies
allots 30.0 MGD of flow capacity in the EBDA pipeline to the Discharger. If the
plant effluent flow exceeds the 30.0MGD maximum capacity and available
equalization basin storage, the Discharger discharges to the shallow-water outfall.
The Discharger stops discharging to the shallow-water outfall when the plant’s
effluent flow drops below approximately 30.0 MGD.
The Discharger conducts maintenance exercise discharges to ensure that the
shallow-water outfall line is flushed of accumulated sediment and that control
valves and dechlorination equipment are operational in advance of the wet season
(November 1 to April 30) when it may be necessary to discharge during peak wet
weather events. The maintenance exercise discharges are conducted for up to two
days per year during the dry season (May 1 to October 31) and do not exceed a
total volume of 2.0 million gallons during any particular day.
Wet weather discharges are infrequent. The Discharger minimizes discharges to
Lower San Francisco Bay by using its 8.0-million-gallon (MG) Ecotone Project
equalization basin to store peak flows. When the equalization basin is full (or
projected to be full given peak flows), effluent flows above the Discharger’s
contractual flow of 30.0 MGD are discharged to the shallow-water outfall. At the
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 51]
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Order R2-2024-0006
Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge NPDES Permit CA0037559
end of each storm, water stored in the equalization basin is routed back to the
plant headworks. Wet weather discharges are only expected during peak wet
weather events when natural flows in adjacent San Lorenzo Creek and Bockman
Canal are high.
2.3. Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data. The table below presents the
previous order’s effluent limitations and representative monitoring data from
January 2019 through October 2023:
Table F-2. Previous Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Dat

[Page 53]
Discharger has been and plans to continue working with the Hayward Area
Shoreline Protection Agency (HASPA) to plan sea-level rise mitigation strategies,
such as a horizontal levee. HASPA membership consists of the City of Hayward,
Hayward Area Recreation and Park District, and East Bay Regional Park District.
3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger is not planning significant changes for this
Order term.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 53]
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Order R2-2024-0006
Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge NPDES Permit CA0037559
2.6. Sea Level Rise. Based on the National Research Council 2012 Projections – Sea-
level Rise for the Coasts of California, Oregon, and Washington: Past, Present,
and Future, the Discharger has begun planning for 12-inches of sea-level rise by
2050 and 36-inches by 2100. The Discharger is currently protected by a perimeter
levee, and critical structures are built at or above an elevation of 8 feet. The
Discharger has been and plans to continue working with the Hayward Area
Shoreline Protection Agency (HASPA) to plan sea-level rise mitigation strategies,
such as a horizontal levee. HASPA membership consists of the City of Hayward,
Hayward Area Recreation and Park District, and East Bay Regional Park District.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code
article 4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with § 1