[Page 55]
1. Facility Description. The Plant provides advanced secondary treatment of domestic and
commercial wastewater from a community of approximately 39,000. Treatment consists of
screens at two pump stations (Sharp Park and Linda Mar), grit removal, sequencing batch
reactors for primary and secondary treatment and nutrient removal, sand filters, and ultraviolet
(UV) disinfection. The Plant, except for the filters and control building, are built into a hillside
covered with native vegetation.
2. Discharge Description. The Plant has an average dry weather flow design capacity of
4.0 MGD. From November 2006 through December 2010, the daily average and maximum
flow rates at Discharge Point 001 were 2.9 and 16.9 MGD, respectively.
3. Discharge Location. Treated wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 over a cascade
aerator to Calera Creek, which flows approximately 0.52 miles through constructed wetlands to
the Pacific Ocean. The elevation of the discharge at the cascade aerator is approximately
2-3 feet above the surface water elevation of Calera Creek during the 100-year storm event.
4. Reclamation Activities. The Discharger restored and maintains 8.7 acres of wetlands in a
former rock quarry and restored the lower stream channel of Calera Creek as part of the
Regional Water Board’s exception for shallow water discharges. The wetlands provide habitat
for the endangered San Francisco garter snake and threatened California red-legged frog.
5. Collection System. The Discharger’s wastewater collection system includes 82 miles of gravity
sewer main, 4.2 miles of force main, and five pump stations.
6. Biosolids Management. Biosolids generated during the treatment process are stored in waste
activated sludge storage basins, which are aerated prior to thickening with gravity belt
thickeners. Thickened solids are digested in autothermophilic aerobic digesters, dewatered with
centrifuges, and then hauled for land disposal at authorized sites. In 2010, biosolids were placed
in a landfill in Solano County and land applied to 34 fields in Merced, Sacramento, and Solano
counties.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 56]
City of Pacifica ORDER NO. R2-2012-0002
Calera Creek Water Recycling Plant NPDES NO. CA0038776
7. Storm Water Discharge. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Resources Control Board’s (State Water Board) statewide NPDES permit for storm w

===PLANNED CHANGES===

