[Page 59]
1. Facility Description. Facility influent from the collection system is treated by screening and grit
removal, secondary treatment using activated sludge, and secondary clarification. After
secondary clarification, some of the water is pumped to the Discharger’s tertiary treatment
system (flocculation, filtration, and UV disinfection), and subsequently recycled. The
Discharger’s water recycling activities are regulated under Regional Water Board Order No.
96-011. Remaining flows are directed through a series of oxidation ponds (162 acres) and
constructed wetlands (32 acres) for additional biological treatment. After the treatment
wetlands, the water is chlorinated and then flows to either polishing wetlands (31 acres) or a
chlorine contact chamber. Wastewater from the polishing wetlands is discharged to the
Petaluma River, or sent to the chlorine contact chamber. Wastewater from the chlorine contact
chamber is dechlorinated and discharged to the Petaluma River, or reused for irrigation at a
number of agricultural and recreational sites.
The Discharger’s sanitary sewer collection system comprises approximately 224 miles of
public sewer pipelines ranging in diameter from 6 to 48 inches. The collection system also
includes four primary pump stations: C Street, Wilmington, Payran, and Copeland Street.
These pump stations have alarms for notification

[Page 60]
4. Biosolids Management. Waste activated sludge from the secondary process is thickened in a
gravity belt thickener. Thickened sludge is then pumped to the acid phase digester for initial
digestion. After initial digestion, treated sludge is pumped to a methane digester for final
volatile solids destruction. Treated sludge from the methane digester is thickened in a rotary
screen thickener prior to dewatering in a mechanical screw press. Final dewatered biosolids are
disposed of in a municipal solid waste landfill, or reused by land application in accordance with
40 CFR Part 503.
5. Storm Water Discharge. The Discharger does not require coverage under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES permit for storm water discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) because all storm water flows in contact with
Facility equipment or sewage is directed to the headworks for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The location of the discharge point and the receiving water are shown in Table F-2 below.
Table F-2. Outfall Locations
Discharge Effluent Discharge Point Discharge Point
Receiving Water
Point Description Latitude Longitude
Secondary Treated
001 Municipal 38o 12’ 33” 122o 34’ 22” Petaluma River
Wastewater
The Petaluma River is located within the San Pablo watershed. The discharge is a shallow water
discharge because the discharge does not always receive 10:1 initial dilution.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order No. R2-2005-0058, as amended (hereinafter the previous
orders) and representative monitoring data from the term of the previous O

===PLANNED CHANGES===

