[Page 7]
WASTEWATER POLLUTION
The Big Sur River is a water of the United States. The Big Sur River is the nearest
surface water located approximately 100 feet west of the wastewater disposal leach
fields. The Big Sur River joins the Pacific Ocean approximately 4 miles north-west of the
facility and leach fields. First-encountered groundwater is approximately 1-10 feet below
ground surface.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
1. The Wastewater System is composed of conveyance piping, lift stations, solids
screening and grinding, grit removal, two activated sludge aeration tanks, three
clarifiers, two radial filter units, aerobic solids digester, and SCADA. California
2
[Page 8]
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
Department of Parks and Recreation reports that they own and operate a 650-gallon
pumper truck for transporting wastewater from neighboring campgrounds’ temporary
sanitary facilities including Andrew Molera, Point Sur, and JP Burns. The pumper
truck is operated on a weekly basis and historically has added 650 gallons per week
of additional flow to the system. Starting June 30, 2025, a few of these locations are
pumped, hauled by a contractor, and not disposed of at the Wastewater System.
California Department of Parks and Recreation will continue to service Andrew
Molera State Reserve (4 chemical toilets) and a portion of Point Sur Lighthouse (2
chemical toilets) due to the remote locations. There will be approximately 500
gallons disposed of at the Wastewater System weekly from these offsite sources.
The Wastewater System’s backup power supply system consists of a 100-kilowatt
industrial generator, an automatic transfer switch, and a 1,000-gallon propane fuel
tank. In the event of a power outage, the industrial generator and automatic transfer
switch are instantaneously activated for continued Wastewater System operation.
The backup power supply system is on a weekly automated test schedule to ensure
proper operation. A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility
site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Activated Sludge Treatment, Disposal Technologies, and Capacity
Influent Maximum Daily Flow: 92,800 gallons per day (gpd)
Design Flows
Average Monthly Flow: 80,000 gpd
Restaurant grease waste is separated via a grease trap
located at the lodge, which is maintained by a
concessionaire. The grease interceptor is 2500 gallons
with a 100-gallon pump vault. The restaurant empties the
interceptor when it gets full. The restaurant has the grease
Grease Trap interceptor pumped every 4 months on average.
Matthew Wilkins is the contact person for operation and
maintenance of the grease trap:
matthew.wilkins@guestservices.com.
3
[Page 9]
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
Preliminary treatment consists of a JWC Auger Monster
System Model No. AGD 1800-285 that grinds, screens,
washes, and transports inorganic solid to a bagged
disposal unit. The JWC Auger Monster's maximum
capacity to screen is 250 gallons per minute (gpm) with an
influent suspended solids concentration of 300 milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
Headworks/Preliminary At the headworks, there is a secondary channel parallel to
Treatment the main channel that is used for bypassing the preliminary
treatment system and inspecting and maintaining the
preliminary treatment equipment.
After major solids removal, the wastewater is directed
through a trapezoidal flume for continuous volumetric flow
measurement (flow range up to 600 gpm) and then
pumped through a Eutek TeaCup cyclonic separator grit
removal system with a design capacity of 200 gpm.
4
[Page 10]
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
Secondary treatment begins within two 43,000 gallon
extended aeration basins (AB1 and AB2) operated in
parallel. Aeromod ClarAtors clarifiers (Clarifier 1 and
Clarifier 2) are centered inside each of the two aeration
basins to perform primary clarification after aeration. Each
primary clarifier can treat a daily average of 14,280 gpd
and a maximum of 46,560 gpd. Effluent from both primary
clarifiers combine and flow to an Aeromod Split ClarAtor,
Model 16320 secondary clarifier (Clarifier 3) for further
treatment. The Split ClarAtor clarifier's average design
treatment capacity is 28,800 gpd and a maximum design
capacity of 92,800 gpd.
Wasted activated sludge from both primary clarifiers is
pumped to the digester. Return activated sludge is
captured out of the secondary clarifier and split to be
Secondary Treatment
reintroduced into each of the two aeration basins.
Post clarifier filtering consists of four RF-400-CW radial
filter units. The filters operate in parallel but only one is on
at anytime. The non-operating radial filter comes online
once the operating filter goes offline to initiate the
backwash cycle. Backwash is initiated automatically every
24 hrs or by head loss across the radial filter unit.
Backwash effluent is redirected back to the aeration
basins. The average design flow rate for each radial filter
is 25,000 gpd for a total possible filtering capacity of
100,000 gpd. The radial filter performance meets title 22
California Code of Regulations §60301.320 definition of
filtered wastewater, which is requirement of a disinfected
recycled water but the effluent is not disinfected and is not
used as recycled water.
Effluent wastewater is disposed in a leach field with a
100% replacement zone. The leach field has seven zones,
Disposal separated by isolation valves at the start of each zone.
The zones are rotated every 6 months, resulting in six
online zones and one offline zone.
5
[Page 11]
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
Solids produced at the headworks are bagged for hauling
offsite by Monterey Regional Waste Management District
(831-384-5313) and disposal at the Marina Landfill in
Monterey County.
Biosolids/Sludge
Wasted activated sludge is pumped into the aerobic
Production and
digester with a storage capacity of 13 days at average
Handling
daily flow and four days at maximum daily flow. Digested
sludge is directed to either one of two sandbeds or through
a belt press for dewatering. Solids are collected and taken
offsite for final disposal by Waste Management at the
Marina Landfill in Monterey County.
Wastewater Effluent BOD and TSS < 30 mg/L
Design Goals1 Total Nitrogen < 20-50 mg/L
1 These are design goals and should be used to evaluate system performance.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
California Department of Parks and Recreation must operate the facility in accordance
with the General Permit and this notice of applicability.4 California Department of Parks
and Recreation must operate the extended aeration, activated sludge, tertiary filtration
treatment system to comply with the effluent limits below.
A. Effluent limits
California Department of Parks and Recreation must comply with the site-specific limits
listed in Table 3.
Table 3. Wastewater Limits for Activated Sludge Treatment
Constituent Unit Limit Point of Compliance1
80,000 (monthly
Influent
Flow gpd2 average) 4
(IS-1)
Total Suspended 5 (monthly average) Effluent after Radial
mg/L3
Solids (TSS) 10 (7-day average) Filters (ES-1)
Five-Day
30 (monthly
Biochemical Effluent after Radial
mg/L average)
Oxygen Demand Filters (ES-1)
45 (7-day average)
(BOD )
5
4 General Permit section B.1.b. states that treatment a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

