[Page 36]
Order No. R5-2001-103 and Cease and Desist Order No. R5-2001-104.
The WWTF is an activated sludge treatment plant consisting of a headworks with mechanical
and manual screens, aerated grit chambers, two "clarators" with primary aerator and aeration
chambers, two primary clarifiers, two aeration basins, four secondary clarifiers, a chlorine
contact tank, a blower room, sludge thickeners (Dissolved Air Flotation units), four anaerobic
sludge digesters, and a biosolids transfer station. The design capacity of the WWTF is
8 million gallons per day (mgd). The permitted monthly average daily discharge flow is
5.3 mgd (in 2006 the monthly average daily discharge flows were between 4.3 and 5.1 mgd).
WWTF generates secondary treated effluent. The WWTF does not chlorinate to disinfect the
treated effluent unless required to handle algae blooms.
Prior to 1987 sludge was stored in unlined sludge drying beds at the VWVTF and the treated
effluent was discharged to 12-acres of percolation basins at the WWTF or used to irrigate
approximately 100 acres of farmland adjacent to the WWTF. In the 1990s this ceased and
the effluent and sludge was transported approximately 4.5 miles to lands south and west of
the municipal airport, where the sludge is stored in soil cement lined sludge drying beds and
the treated effluent is used to irrigate fodder and fibber crops or allowed to percolated in a
43-acre disposal field. In the past up to 75% of the total effluent was discharged to the
43-acre disposal field for percolation. The percolation of effluent in the disposal field
increased the groundwater gradient and, in turn, groundwater flow velocity in the vicinity of the
Landfill. As a result, the City's continued discharge to the area has the potential to increase
area groundwater to levels that would threaten or adversely affect the Landfill and
groundwater quality. Current WDRs prohibits the Discharger from discharging effluent to the
disposal field in a manner that contributes to the flooding and migration of waste constituents
from the Teapot Dome Landfill. In addition, the Discharger was directed to decrease
percolation of effluent and increase the amount of reclaimed water used for irrigation.
The City's current Reclamation Area consists of approximately 980 acres with about
401 acres used for irrigation with recycled effluent (the rest of the Reclamation Area is dry
farmed). The Discharger plans to complete infrastructure improvements on approximately
220 additional acres for a total of 620 acres available for irrigation, 30 acres of which are
owned by Mr. Robert Nuckols.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Sludge is thickened and stored in the sludge digesters then is transferred via an underground
pipeline approximately 4.5 miles to the sludge drying beds adjacent to the municipal airport.
Currently the dried sludge is stockpiled in one of the lined sludge drying beds and hauled to a
composting facility for disposal. In July 2007, the Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent
[Page 37]
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2008-0034 -2-
CITY OF PORTERVILLE WWTF
TULARE COUNTY
(NOi) for coverage under the Boisolids General Order to land apply boisolids for use as a soil
amendment on approximately 440 acres of land in the City's Reclamation Area. According to
the Operations Plan submitted with the NOi the biosolids will be spread in October. Following
application a crop will be planted on the fields in November either alfalfa, oat hay, or oat hay
followed by sudan grass. According to the Operations Plan the fields that are used for
biosolids will not be irrigated with effluent for one year following application. Current sludge
production is about 1,100 tons of dried sludge per year, which requires an estimated 65 to
70 ac

===PLANNED CHANGES===

