[Page 41]
1. Location and Service Area. The Plant is located on Canyon Lake Drive in Port Costa. It
provides secondary treatment of wastewater from domestic and, to a lesser extent, commercial
sources within the Port Costa community. There are no industrial dischargers in the service area.
The service area population is approximately 250.
2. Collection System. The collection system consists of a few miles of terra-cotta pipe, and the
Discharger maintains it with the assistance of contractors.
3. Wastewater Treatment. Wastewater from the Port Costa community is conveyed by gravity to
an 86,000-gallon capacity, baffled septic tank where primary sedimentation occurs. From the
septic tank, the primary-treated wastewater flows by gravity to a wet well, where it mixes with
circulating wastewater from sand/gravel filter beds at a ratio of approximately four or five parts
of filtered wastewater to one part primary-treated septic tank effluent. After mixing, the
wastewater is pumped to a dosing structure, which distributes the wastewater to the sand/gravel
filter beds. From the sand/gravel filter beds, a portion of the filtered wastewater is routed back to
the wet well (upgradient of the sand/gravel filter beds) to mix with primary-treated septic tank
effluent. The remaining filtered wastewater flows over a V-notch weir into a contact chamber,
where it is chlorinated and then dechlorinated with sodium metabisulfite.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 42]
Crockett Community Services District ORDER No. R2-2013-0035
Port Costa Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037885
The Plant has a dry weather design treatment capacity of 0.033 mgd. The average daily flow
was 0.015 million gallons per day (MGD) from April 2008 through June 2012, with a maximum
daily flow of 0.147 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Settled sludge in the septic tank is removed approximately
every five years and hauled to an offsite septage tank receiving station for treatment and
disposal (e.g., at the Central Contra Costa Sanitary District wastewater treatment plant in
Martinez or the East Bay Municipal Utility District Main Wastewater Treatment Plant in
Oakland). The septic tank was last pumped in March 2013.
5. Stormwater Discharge. All stormwater captured within the Plant storm drain system is
directed to the headworks of the Plant. The Facility is therefore exempt from coverage under the
statewide Industrial Storm Water General Permit (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated, dechlorinated wastewater is discharged to Carquinez Strait, a water of the United States,
through a submerged outfall (Discharge Point No. 001) and diffuser. Carquinez Strait is located
between San Pablo Bay and Suisun Bay within the Suisun Basin watershed. The diffuser is located
approximately 60 feet offshore, at a depth of about 17.5 feet below mean lower low water at latitude
38.04861º north and longitud

===PLANNED CHANGES===

