[Page 56]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment or Controls
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, a 420-acre steel finishing plant. The Facility
finishes purchased coils of hot-rolled steel, but does not manufacture steel from raw materials.
The processes include pickling with hydrochloric and sulfuric acid, cold rolling, alkaline
cleaning, annealing, hot-dip galvanizing, and eletrolytic tin and chromium plating.
The wastewater treatment system consists of three preliminary treatment systems specific to
various wastewater streams in the Facility, and the main wastewater treatment plant located in
the northeast corner of the Facility. The following treatment systems provide initial wastewater
treatment in the main part of the Facility:
1. The Oil Separation System treats oily wastewaters from cold rolling mills throughout the
Facility.
2. The Outgoing Treatment System reduces chromium VI contained in wastewaters from the
Facility’s Chromium Recovery Unit.
3. The Primary Neutralization Facility neutralizes spent alkaline cleaning baths.
Partly treated wastewater flows to the main wastewater treatment plant after preliminary
treatment. In addition to wastewater from the main part of the Facility, the main wastewater
treatment plant also receives storm water from the Facility’s developed areas, including parking
lots, buildings, roadways, and material storage areas. The main wastewater treatment plant may
also receive a maximum of 5 million gallons per year of wastewater from impoundments and
purge water from monitoring wells.
The main wastewater treatment plant consists of a pump station (Lift Station No. 3), an oil/water
separator, a mixer building to adjust the pH with lime and/or caustic for metals precipitation, two
clarifiers, and two neutralization tanks for final pH adjustment (hydrochloric acid in the first
stage, and hydrochloric acid or caustic in the second stage). Solids from the clarifiers are
dewatered with a filter press and hauled to the Facility’s on-site landfill. The filtrate is returned
to Lift Station No. 3 for treatment. Treated wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001
to New York Slough, which is part of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta.
During extreme storm events, when storm water flow exceeds the No. 1 Lift Station pumping
capacity (approximately 1,700 gallons per minute), excess storm water is discharged at
Discharge Point No. 002 to N

===PLANNED CHANGES===

