[Page 113]
7. E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant (Facility)
The Facility is an advanced primary treatment plant and the terminal treatment facility
discharging to the PLOO. The Facility has rated capacities of 240 MGD average annual
daily flow and 432 peak wet weather flow. Treatment processes include: mechanical self-
cleaning climber screens; chemical addition at Parshall flumes to enhance settling;
aerated grit removal, including grit tanks, separators, and washers; sedimentation basins
with sludge and scum removal facilities; and effluent disinfection facilities providing
chlorination in the effluent channel.
B. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
In addition to receiving raw wastewater from both the northern and southern portions of the
Metro System service area, the Facility may also receive treated effluent from the NCWRP.
Excess NCWRP secondary effluent is discharged to the Facility via the North Metro
Interceptor for retreatment and disposal. Additionally, during times when NCWRP recycled
water production exceeds demands, excess NCWRP recycled water may also be conveyed
to the Facility for treatment and disposal. The Facility also receives centrate from MBC and
waste solids from the SBWRP.
The treatment train at the Facility consists of five influent screens, chemical injection (ferric
chloride occurs in the Parshall flumes, and anionic polymer is added in the individual flumes
[Page 114]
City of San Diego ORDER R9-2017-0007
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0107409
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
to the sedimentation tanks), six aerated grit chambers, 12 primary sedimentation basins, and
sodium hypochlorite injection for chlorination. Increased total suspended solids (TSS) removal
is largely attributed to the Discharger's implementation of an integrated system-wide chemical
addition approach. The Discharger during the past several years has proceeded with phased
implementation of a proprietary technology called Peroxide Regenerated Iron Sulfide Control.
On-site solids treatment at the Facility consists of anaerobic sludge digestion. Dewatered
solids are beneficially used as an alternate daily cover at a landfill or as a soil amendment.
Digested sludge is transported via pipeline to MBC for dewatering and disposal. Screenings,
grit, and scum are trucked to a landfill for disposal.
Chlorinated advanced primary treated effluent is discharged through the PLOO to the Pacific
Ocean, approximately 4.5 miles offshore. Although this is beyond the limit of the ocean waters
of the State, potential plume migration within the ocean waters of the State warrants joint
regulation of the effluent. USEPA, Region IX has primary regulatory responsibility for the
discharge. However, in 1984, a Memorandum of Understanding was s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

