[Page 3]
Facility.
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment, reclamation, and disposal
system that serves the community of Bodega Bay and the Bodega Harbor subdivision.
The area served is approximately 60 percent residential and 40 percent commercial
(primarily hotels and restaurants). There are no industrial connections. The collection
system includes approximately 15 miles of sewers and eight lift stations. The Facility
consists of the headworks that includes, a solids separation facility and flow
measurement, secondary treatment with two extended air activated sludge basins and
four secondary clarifiers, two tertiary treatment cloth media rotating disk filters, and
chlorine disinfection using chlorine gas. The Discharger plans to switch from chlorine gas
to sodium hypochlorite in the near future for safety. The WWTF uses a Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system for process monitoring and automation.
Lift station high water level alarms are connected to the SCADA system.
The Facility includes 88.9 million gallons of recycled water storage capacity in six
earthen-lined recycled water storage ponds, identified in the following table:
Table 4. Storage Pond Capacity
Pond Capacity, Million Gallons (MG)
Treatment Plant Storage Pond 3.3
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS 4
[Page 4]
Waste Discharge and
Water Recycling Requirements 5 - June 15 and 16, 2023
Bodega Bay Public Utility District WWTF
Order No. R1-2023-0011
Pond Capacity, Million Gallons (MG)
Intermediate Pond 1.0
Bruhn Reservoir 36.5
North Site Pond 1 14.9
North Site Pond 2 16.6
North Site Pond 3 16.6
Total Capacity 88.9
Historically, the Discharger reserved North Site Pond 1 for storage of disinfected
secondary-23 recycled water (as defined in title 22 Section 60301.225) which resulted
during periods when the tertiary filters could not handle high winter flows through the
Facility. To help address this issue, the Discharger added a second redundant tertiary
filter, which provided additional treatment capacity. However extreme high flow events
still have the potenti

[Page 5]
Water General Order by June 30, 2023.
Solids generated during the treatment process are aerobically digested, dried on sand
beds, and used as a soil amendment on 37 acres of irrigated pasture at the North Site in
accordance with its Biosolids Management Plan (February 2019 or subsequent revision).
The Discharger complies with EPA Part 503 Biosolids Rule (Title 40 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Part 503 (40 CFR Part 503) pathogen reduction requirements by air
drying the sludge for a minimum of three months and complies with vector attraction
reduction requirements by incorporating all biosolids into the soil at the land application
site within 6 hours after placement on the land. Order section VI.E requires the
Discharger to submit an updated Biosolids Management Plan to provide a
comprehensive document that demonstrates that biosolids treatment, handling, s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

