[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) and
associated wastewater collection, reclamation, and disposal facilities that serve a population
of 1,457 residential and commercial users. From October 1 through May 14, treated
wastewater is discharged to Francis Creek at its confluence with the Salt River and from May
15 through September 30, treated wastewater is applied to neighboring agricultural land.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment
The City of Ferndale’s wastewater treatment facility, located north of the City near the
confluence of Francis Creek and the Salt River, treats municipal wastewater from the
City’s 1,457 residents, outlying areas, and several commercial facilities. Secondary treated
wastewater is discharged to Francis Creek at its confluence with the Salt River from
October 1 through May 14, and is delivered for irrigation/reclamation use on neighboring
agricultural land owned by Elias and Marilyn Sousa from May 15 through September 30 of
each year. The Salt River is tributary to the Lower Eel River within the Ferndale
Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel River Hydrologic Area.
Flowing by gravity from the municipal collection system, influent wastewater enters the
headworks of the treatment facility, which includes a comminuter, and is pumped by two
25 horsepower submersible pumps to a 5.6 acre oxidation pond. Natural aeration in the
oxidation pond is supplemented by two 5 horsepower blowers that aerate through
submerged air diffuser grids. Based on Discharger records, solids have not been removed
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
City of Ferndale
Order No. R1-2009-0036
NPDES No. CA0022721
from the oxidation pond. Measurement at five locations in the pond shows an average
depth of solids on the bottom of the oxidation pond of 8 inches.
From the oxidation pond, wastewater flows through a manually controlled gate to a one
acre polishing pond and then through a baffle and control gate to a chlorine contact basin.
Disinfection is accomplished with chlorine gas; sulfur dioxide is used for dechlorination
during periods of discharge to Francis Creek / the Salt River. Treated wastewater is not
dechlorinated prior to its use for agricultural irrigation.
In early 2008 the treatment facility reconfigured the pumping mechanisms which discharge
treated effluent from the chlorine contact chamber. The new configuration limits operation
to only one effluent pump at any given time. Therefore, the dry weather design flow has
decreased from a dry weather treatment capacity of 1.0 mgd to the current dry weather
design capacity of 0.576 mgd. Auxiliary pumping is implemented in the wintertime to
manage peak flows for short durations. Actual influent flows reported by the Discharger
are as follows.
The Discharger previously reported a high rate of inflow and infiltration (I&I) – an average
rate of approximately 0.5 mgd during the rainy season with a peak daily rate of
approximately 3.6 mgd (Spencer Engineering and Construction Management, 2006).
Subsequently the Discharger identified collection system improvements and adopted a
municipal ordinance to reduce I/I through testing of sewer laterals and their rehabilitation,
where appropriate.
The Discharger has identified and implemented significant collection system
improvements. The Discharger has rehabilitated manholes and replaced or repaired
several faulty portions of collection lines within its collection system. Discharger self
monitoring reports submitted during the 2008/2009 wet season show reduced rates of
inflow and infiltration. The current average wet weather flows are approximately 0.6 mgd
with peak flows less than 2.5 mgd. Average dry weather flows are reported around 0.15
mgd. The average annul flow at the existing WWTF between January 2007 and March
2009 is 0.43 mgd.
The Discharger plans to construct a new WWTF within the effective period of this Order.
The new WWTF system will be located adjacent to the existing headworks facility and will
provide tertiary treatment of wastewater. Raw wastewater will flow from the municipal
collection system by gravity to the headworks. Within the headworks, a comminutor and
bar screen will provide primary treatment. Wastewater from the headworks up to 0.95
mgd will be pumped to a selector tank then flow by gravity to one of two rectangular
extended aeration basins for biological treatment. From the aeration basins wastewater
will flow by gravity to the adjacent rectangular clarifiers. Return activated sludge (RAS) will
be selectively injected into the selector tank and aeration basins as appropriate to achieve
maximum nitrogen removal efficiencies. Aerobically digested sludge will be pumped to a
belt press for dewatering. The sludge will automatically be dumped into a truck for off site
recycling or disposal. Clarified wastewater will undergo disc filtration prior to ultraviolet
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 76]
City of Ferndale
Order No. R1-2009-0036
NPDES No. CA0022721
disinfection. A holding basin will be available at the end of the treatment train for
temporary storage of treated effluent during periods of land application. Variable drive
pumps will be located within the basin to provide continuous flows when discharging to
surface water.
Influent exceeding 0.95 mgd will automatically be diverted from the headworks to a
synthetically lined wet-weather flow equalization basin, which will be located in the existing
WWTF oxidation pond, once offline. Flows from the wet-weather equalization basin will
automatically flow back to the headworks to proceed with full treatment through the WWTF
once influent flows subside below 0.95 mgd.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
During the discharge season, the treatment plant discharges to Francis Creek at
Discharge Point 001 (40º 35’ 40’ N latitude and 124º 15’ 44” W longitude), approximately
600 feet upstream of its confluence with the Salt River, within the Ferndale Subarea of the
Lower

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has completed 50% of the engineered design for the new WWTF
(described under section II.A. above) to replace the current facility. This Order will
serve to transition from the existing WWTF to the new WWTF and therefore contains
effluent limitations specific to each. The new WWTF is expected to improve compliance
by providing tertiary treated effluent using a combination of extended aeration, nutrient
removal, filtration and ultraviolet disinfection. The existing oxidation pond will be
transformed and used for wet-weather flow equalization, allowing peak flows to be
normalized as influent flows subside.
On January 30, 2009, the Discharger submitted a request for a variance to Basin Plan
discharge rate requirements. The variance request addressed requirements contained in
the Implementation Plan section of the Basin Plan (specifically at page 4-2.00). The
variance request identified each constituent of concern (COC) known or reasona