[Page 52]
1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 800 San Pablo
Avenue in Rodeo. It provides secondary treatment of domestic and commercial wastewater
for Rodeo and Tormey, which are unincorporated areas of Contra Costa County. The Facility
serves a population of about 8,700 people. Attachment B shows a map of the area around the
Facility.
2. Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 27 miles of pipes and two pump stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of comminutors at the
influent pump station, aerated grit removal, primary clarification, biological secondary
treatment, and disinfection. The treatment plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up
to 1.14 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 3.4 MGD (peak
one-hour average flow). From November 2014 through October 2015, the plant treated a
daily average of 0.60 MGD and a maximum instantaneous flow of 5.2 MGD. Attachment C
provides the treatment plant flow schematic.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary and secondary sludge
with a rotary drum thickener, treats the combined sludge with anaerobic digestion, and
dewaters the combined sludge with a centrifuge and then drying beds. Biosolids are hauled to
a landfill for disposal.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 53]
Rodeo Sanitary District Order No. R2-2017-0034
Rodeo Sanitary District Water Pollution Control Facility NPDES No. CA0037826
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not covered under the State Water Board’s
statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the plant and pump stations
is collected and directed to the plant headworks for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Discharge of treated effluent to San Pablo Bay is through a submerged, multi-port diffuser located
approximately 3,775 feet offshore (Discharge Point No. 001) at a depth of 16 feet below mean sea
level, almost on the San Pablo Bay floor. The 120-foot diffuser consists of 15 pairs of diffuser ports
(30 ports total) placed 8 feet apart on center. The 2.5-inch diameter ports are sharp-edged.
According to an outfall pipeline inspection conducted in August 2016, two of the diffuser ports are
buried. Provision VI.C.5.d of this Order requires the Discharger to ensure that all diffuser ports are
operational. The Rodeo Sanitary District, the City of Pinole, and the City o

===PLANNED CHANGES===

