[Page 80]
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant. During dry weather, the plant provides
secondary treatment. The treatment processes include coarse screening at the Westside
Pump Station, fine screening and grit removal at the plant headworks, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge treatment by a high-purity oxygen process, and secondary
clarification. The effluent is not disinfected. The plant has a maximum secondary
treatment design capacity of about 43 million gallons per day (MGD). During wet
weather, the plant can provide primary treatment for about 22 MGD more, which is
combined with the secondary-treated effluent prior to discharge for a total treatment
capacity of 65 MGD. Plant effluent flows to Discharge Point No. 001 by gravity.
b. Combined Sewer System. The combined storage capacity of the three transport/storage
structures is about 71 million gallons. Collection system piping provides about 2 million
gallons of additional storage. The transport/storage structures provide flow equalization
and convey combined sewer system flows up to 65 MGD to the plant by way of the
Westside Pump Station.
Flows above the plant’s 65-MGD treatment capacity receive equivalent-to-primary
treatment through solids settling, skimming of floatable solids, and in some cases
screening within the combined sewer system. In addition to pumping up to 65 MGD to
the plant, the Westside Pump Station can also pump flow from the Westside
Transport/Storage Structure to Discharge Point No. 001 during wet weather (identified in
the previous order as “decant”). The design capacity of the Westside Pump Station wet
weather pumps ranges from 98 to 133 MGD depending on the number and model of

[Page 81]
5. Water Recycling and Reclamation. The Discharger is constructing a recycled water project
at the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant site during this Order’s term. Secondary-
treated effluent will be treated further with membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection to produce recycled water. The concentrate from the
reverse osmosis process will be commingled with plant effluent prior to discharge at
Discharge Point No. 001. Filter backwash water generated at the Westside Recycled Water
Project will be directed to the plant headworks for treatment. The project is expected to
produce and deliver an annual average flow of 1.6 MGD of recycled water for distribution in
the western portion of San Francisco, with peak deliveries of up to 4 MGD during summer.
Water recycling operations will not increase the mass of pollutants discharged at Discharge
Point No. 001, but will increase the concentration of pollutants discharged. The req

===PLANNED CHANGES===

