[Page 52]
1. Facility Overview. The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, which provides
secondary treatment of domestic wastewater from the City of Daly City, portions of
unincorporated San Mateo County, the Town of Colma, the San Francisco County Jail, and
the Westborough Water District within the City of South San Francisco. The combined
service area population is about 127,000.
The Facility has an average dry weather design capacity of 10.3 MGD and a peak wet
weather capacity of 25 MGD. During dry weather, it currently discharges below its permitted
flow of 8.0 MGD. The Facility discharges a daily average flow of approximately 5.9 MGD
(averaged over three consecutive dry weather months). The Discharger does not anticipate
needing to increase its permitted flow within the next five years.
2. Treatment Processes. The treatment system consists of screening, compaction, primary
clarification, flow equalization, pure oxygen activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, chlorination by sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination by sodium bisulfite.
Influent plant flow is measured with a Parshall flume and then flows through two
microscreens, where it is dispersed evenly to six primary basins. Two additional primary
basins are brought into service when needed during wet weather flows. The primary effluent
is then split, with 70 percent pumped to two pure oxygen activated sludge reactors, each with
three turbine mixers. The other 30 percent is stored in equalization basins until late evening,
when it is pumped back into the secondary system for treatment. Flows from the activated
sludge reactors are then routed to three secondary clarifiers, operated in parallel, for settling.
The effluent then flows over weirs into a chlorine contact mixing chamber.
A portion of the effluent receives tertiary treatment for water reclamation projects. The
tertiary treatment system includes alum or polymer injection followed by sand filtration,
disinfection, gypsum injection, and a 1.4 million gallon storage basin. During the dry season,
the tertiary treatment system provides up to 2.77 MGD of recycled water for irrigation of golf
courses, median strips, and parks.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 53]
North San Mateo County Sanitation District Order No. R2-2017-0026
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037737
3. Sludge Treatment and Biosolids Disposal. During the wastewater treatment process, the
primary basins collect settleable solids in a sump, from which they are pumped to two gravity
thickeners, where ferrous chloride is added. The thickened solids are removed and pumped to
two anaerobic digesters. Overflow from the gravity thickeners flows back to the headworks.
Primary and secondary scum is pumped to an air flotation tank (along with the waste
activated sludge) and treated with a polymer. The thickened sludge is pumped to an
anaerobic digester, while the overflow goes into the primary effluent sump and is pumped to
the secondary system.
Digester temperatures are kept at 95°F to 100°F. The laboratory performs total solids and
volatile solids tests each day to confirm vector reduction. The digested solids are then treated
with polymer and centrifuged. The centrifuge centrate flows into the headworks. Dried
biosolids are pumped to a storage silo and then hauled offsite for disposal at either the
Potrero Hills municipal landfill in Suisin City or for land application at one of several farms
in Solano, Merced, and Sacramento counties.
4. Collection System. Approximately 180 miles of sanitary sewer lines and eight lift stations
convey domestic sewage to the Facility. The Discharger also maintains within its service area
a separate collection system that conveys approximately 0.6 MGD of flow to the Southeast
Water Pollution

===PLANNED CHANGES===

