[Page 2]
11. Discharge Quality. The subject wastewater system includes new treatment processes and therefore
monitoring data characterizing actual effluent quality were not included in the ROWD. Projected
effluent quality, based on the treatment system design criteria reported in the ROWD, are given below:
Parameter Concentration
:
BOD: < 5 mglL (BOD 5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand at 20"C)
TSS: <5 mglL (TSS: Total Suspended Solids).
12. Wastewater System. The wastewater system includes treatment by septic tanks, grease traps and a
Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) unit, and discharges to land by a subsurface drip dispersal system
discharging effluent from the MBR unit into soil. Additional treatment occurs by natural attenuation
processes in the soil. The system also includes below-ground tanks for temporary storage of MBR unit
waste sludge, and for wastewater as necessary when the MBR unit is out of service such as for
maintenance or repair. For purposes of this Order, the wastewater system is comprised of all equipment,
control and monitoring systems located on the facility site that provide collection, conveyance, treatment,
storage and dispersal of wastewater from the Mustards Grill facility. Descriptions of the new wastewater
system are given below, based on information contained in the ROWD.
Attachment A of this Order is a plan view drawing of the facility site showing facility site boundaries and
the major components of the wastewater system. Attachment B of this Order is a flow diagram
illustrating the wastewater treatment and discharge processes and flows.
page 3 of 17
[Page 3]
Mustards Grill Wastewater Svstern Waste Discharge Requirements
Napa County Order No. R2-2006-0071
13. Wastewater Sources and Flows. Wastewater is generated from the Mustards Grill restaurant as
kitchen wastewater from food preparation and service, and sanitary wastewater from employee and
customer restroom uses. Current and anticipated wastewater flow is on the order of 3,200 gallons per day
as a daily average. The design flow of the MBR treatment system is 4,000 gpd average flow, and 5,023
gpd peak flow, with a peak hydraulic flow capacity of 25,000 gpd. The design flow capacity of the
treated wastewater dispersal system, and maximum discharge rate authorizedby this Order, is 4,000 gpd.
14. Septic Tanks and Grease Traps. Wastewater receives primary treatment in septic tanks, grease trap
tanks and a cool-down tankprior to treatment by the MBR unit. Sanitary wastewater flows by gravity to
a two-compartment 5,000 gallon septic tank (Tank 1, Sanitary Vault), and then to a 1,500 gallon tank
(Tank 5, Grease Trap 4 ). Tank 5 was a pump tank in the old system, but with the new system the pumps
will be removed and relocated to Tank 6 (Lift Station Wet Well), and Tank 5 will be only a treatment
tank. Kitchen wastewater flows by gravity first to a baffled 1,500 gallon grease trap tank (Tank 2,
Grease Trap 1), then to a 1,500 g

[Page 3]
15. Lift Station. The Lift Station is equipped with two 1-horespower (hp) submersible sewage pumps
(Goulds Model 3887 BHF; 230 vo7t,3-phase, 13 amp maximum, with 2-inch diameter discharge). Each
pump has a capacity of about 50 feet of head at the anticipated maximum flow rate of 12 gallons per
minute (gpm), which is sufficient to accommodate the system design head loss of about 35 feet (25 feet
elevation loss and 10 feet of friction loss). The pump control system provides alternating and duplex
operation and high water alarm, using three float switches at different water levels that perform the
following functions:
water)
Float 1 (low Controls the Lead Pump
Float2 (medium water) Controls the Lag Pump
water):
Float 3 (high Activates audible alarm and automated telephone dialer to send alarm
message to on-call operator(s).
Effluent from the New Lift Station flows under pressure to the MBR unit via a2-inch diameter PVC pipe
installed two feet below grade, about 500 feet in length, extending around the northeast and southeast
edges of the dispersal area, and equipped with cleanout access fittings at intervals of about 50 feet.
page 4 of 17
[Page 4]
Mustards Grill Wastewater System. Waste Discharge Requirements
Napa County Order No. R2-2006-0071
16. Membrane Biological Reactor (MBR) Treatment Unit. The MBR unit is a pre-designed and
manufacturer-assembled treatment unit (FastPactt 25,000 gallon per day Membrane Biological Reactor,
manufactured by USFilter Corporation). The unit provides treatment by pre-screening for removal of
coarse solids (solids greater than2 mm), biological treatment by both aerobic and anaerobic processes,
and filtration through continuously submerged hollow fiber micro-filtration membranes by low pressure
vacuum extraction. The extracted filtrate is the final treated wastewater effluent from the MBR unit. The
MBR unit also includes capability for installation of three systems for injection of chemicals to support
the treatment process - sodium hydroxide for influent pH control, and supplemental nutrients for
bioreactor microorganisms (urea for nitrogen; phosphoric acid for phosphorous). Each of these systems
includes a 55-ga11on drum of source material, injector pump, and control equipment. At present, these
systems have not been installed, but could be installed in the future as needed. Accumulated treatment-
process biomass solids (sludge) are periodically removed from the MBR unit, temporarily stored on-site
and ultimately disposed off-site. The MBR treatment processes are driven by electrically-powered
equipment including blowers to provide aeration for the aerobic treatment process and membrane
scouring, pumps to circulate wastewater within the unit and to provide vacuum for the filtration process,
and control equipment. Design characteristics of the MBR unit are given below:
MBR Treatment Unit Design Criteria
Parameter Units Average Peak
4.000
Treatment Flow: gallons per day 5.023
(mg/L)
Influent BOD: milligrams per liter 2,600
TSS:
Influent mglL r,200
Load: 87
BOD Treatment pounds per

===PLANNED CHANGES===

