[Page 62]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 5019
Imhoff Place in Martinez. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for Danville, Lafayette, Martinez,
Moraga, Orinda, Pleasant Hill, San Ramon, Walnut Creek, Concord, Clayton,
and adjacent unincorporated areas. The Discharger also regulates 19
significant industrial users that discharge to the Facility through its pretreatment
program. The Facility serves a population of about 484,800. Attachment B
shows a map of the area around the Facility.
2.1.2 Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 1,500 miles of publicly-owned pipes that range from
6 to 102 inches in diameter. The Discharger owns and operates 15 pump
stations and operates two privately-owned pump stations in Orinda. This
collection system is part of the Facility covered by this Order. The City of
Concord owns and maintains the collection system within the Concord city limits
and maintains the collection system serving the City of Clayton. The portions of
the collection system owned or operated by the City of Concord are not covered
by this Order.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 53.8 million gallons per day (MGD).
From May 2020 through April 2021, the average daily influent flow was
34.2 MGD. The wastewater treatment process consists of screening, grit
removal, primary clarification, secondary biological treatment, secondary
clarification, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Attachment C shows a flow
process diagram for the Facility.
The Facility also has holding basins with a combined capacity of 168 million
gallons. The Discharger uses these holding basins to temporarily store peak
wet weather flows when primary-treated wastewater exceeds the secondary
treatment capacity. When flows subside, the Discharger routes stored
wastewater back to the headworks for full primary and secondary treatment.
2.1.4. Recycled Water. From 2017 through 2020, the Discharger annually diverted,
on average, approximately 5 percent of its total effluent, or 533 million gallons,
to its Recycling Plant. The Recycling Plant further treats the UV-disinfected
effluent with sand/anthracite filtration and sodium hypochlorite disinfection and
stores recycled water in a covered seven-million-gallon reservoir prior to
distribution. The Discharger uses about two-thirds of the recycled water
produced for washdown operations at the wastewater treatment plant and
distributes the remaining recycled water offsite, primarily for landscape
irrigation. Irrigation customers include schools, parks, corporation yards,
landscape medians, and commercial businesses. Light industrial uses include a
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 63]
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District Order R2-2022-0020
WastewaterTreatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037648
soil amendment company and a concrete recycling and batch plant. In 2014,
the Discharger added a Residential Fill Station to provide recycled water access
to residential customers for hand-watering lawns, landscaping, and gardens.
State Water Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW regulates these recycled water
activities.
2.1.5. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens secondary
sludge with a dissolved air flotation unit, combines secondary sludge with
primary sludge that it treats with lime, and dewaters the combined sludge with
centrifuges. The Discharger incinerates the final dewatered sludge onsite,
which produces ash. The Discharger hires a contractor to truck the ash to an
offsite recycling facility for use as a soil amendment. If Facility incinerators are
inoperable, the Discharger may haul biosolids to a landfill, an organic materials
recovery facility, or the East Bay Municipal Utility District wastewater treatment
plant.
2.1.6. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities, General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with
Industrial Activities, Order 2014-0057-DWQ (NPDES Permit
CAS000001),because all stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
plant’s headworks for treatment.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters. Discharge of treated effluent to Suisun
Bay is through a submerged, multi-port diffuser, located approximately 1,600 feet
offshore (Discharge Point 001) at an average depth of about 24 feet. The diffuser
is 6 feet in diameter and embedded 4 feet into the sediment. The diffuser is
oriented nearly perpendicular to the shoreline. It consists of 11 upward-facing
18-inch diameter circular ports, separated 11.5 feet on center, for a total length of
115 feet. Based on the outfall configuration, the discharge is considered a deep
water discharge as defined in the Basin Plan.
About every 5 to 10 years, during the dry season, the Discharger drains and
inspects its 3.5-mile long, 72-inch reinforced concrete outfall pipe to verify the
alignment

===PLANNED CHANGES===

