[Page 64]
Order does not affect the mercury and PCBs permit
C. EBDA, DSRSD, and the City of Livermore each filed separate Reports of Waste Discharge and
submitted applications for reissuance of their waste discharge requirements (WDRs) and NPDES
permits on March 16, 2011.
D. In this Order, compliance with technology-based effluent limitations for CBOD, CBOD percent
removal, TSS, TSS percent removal and pH will be determined at each individual treatment plant.
Compliance with these standards at each individual treatment plant is designed to ensure all
facilities achieve compliance with minimum federal technology-based requirements based on
Secondary Treatment Standards at 40 CFR 133. Compliance with all other effluent limitations will
be determined at the Common Outfall. This is a change from the previous permit, which allowed the
Discharger to achieve compliance with Secondary Treatment Standards at the Common Outfall
instead of at each individual treatment plant. The Regional Water Board plans to continue to
determine compliance with Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations at the EBDA Common
Outfall. In sum, the requirement in this Order for compliance with Secondary Treatment Standards
at each individual treatment plant is applicable only to the parameters currently listed and described
in 40 C.F.R. Part 133.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. EBDA Common Outfall. EBDA is comprised of five member agencies: City of Hayward, Oro
Loma Sanitary District, Castro Valley Sanitary District, City of San Leandro, and Union
Sanitary District. EBDA conveys treated wastewater from its member agencies together with
treated wastewater from LAVWMA, which is comprised of treated wastewater from the City of
Livermore, DSRSD, to a dechlorination station near the San Leandro Marina (Marina
Dechlorination Facility). The treated wastewater is dechlorinated by sodium bisulfite before
being discharged from the EBDA Common Outfall to Lower San Francisco Bay, a water of the
United States within the San Francisco Bay Watershed. The outfall’s diffuser is located
37,000 feet from shore, 23.5 feet below the water surface, and includes 251 special bell mouth
riser ports with a 6-inch diameter that split into two 3-inch perpendicular discharge points that
Attachment F- Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 65]
East Bay Dischargers Authority ORDER NO. R2-2012-0004
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES NO. CA0037869
open every eight feet along the last 2,000 feet of outfall pipe. The diffuser is designed to provide
a minimum initial dilution of greater than 10:1. At current flows, a minimum initial dilution of
95:1 is achieved. As used herein, “Common Outfall” means the EBDA outfall; “Combined
Discharge” refers to the waste stream at any point where all wastes tributary to that outfall are
present; and “individual treatment plant” means a treatment facility operated by a member
agency of either EBDA or LAVWMA.
a. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. The City of Hayward Water Pollution
Control Facility serves a population of 153,000 within the City of Hayward, with the
exception of a small portion of the northern part of the city served by the Oro Loma Sanitary
District. The treatment facility provides secondary treatment for up to 18.5 MGD ADWF.
Treatment consists of comminution, grit removal, primary sedimentation, flow equalization,
high-rate trickling filtration, secondary clarification, and chlorination. Treated wastewater
from the treatment facility is transported to EBDA’s system for final dechlorination and
discharge to the EBDA Common Outfall. The City of Hayward has 240 acres of out-of-
service oxidation ponds that can be used for emergency storage. Sludge is anaerobically
digested, dewatered in sludge dewatering beds, and then air dried onsite for up to two years.
The dried biosolids are hauled to an authorized disposal site and used as alternative daily
cover. The City of Hayward inspects and maintains approximately 375 miles of sanitary
sewer that transports flow to the treatment facility. The City of Hayward operates and
maintains nine lift stations that serve low lying developments.
In 2008, the City of Hayward WPCF completed a $60 million treatment plant upgrade that
provided for process/equipment redundancy and reliability. The plant upgrades included a
new trickling filter, trickling filter pumping station, solids contact tanks, two new final
clarifiers replacing the existing one, waste and secondary sludge pumping stations, solids
thickening building, and biofilter odor treatment facilities.
b. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts. The Oro Loma and Castro Valley
Sanitary Districts jointly own a sewage treatment plant, which is operated by Oro Loma
Sanitary District. The treatment plant serves the communities of San Lorenzo, Ashland,
Cherryland, Fairview, and portions of Castro Valley and the Cities of San Leandro and
Hayward, with a combined population of approximately 182,000. The treatment plant
currently provides secondary treatment for up to 20 MGD ADWF, increased from
14.9 MGD in the previous permit. Treatment consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge, secondary clarification, and chlorination. Treated
wastewater is transported to EBDA’s system for final dechlorination and discharge to the
EBDA Common Outfall. Sludge is anaerobically digested, dewatered using belt filter press
and/or dried in open lagoons, and disposed of at an authorized disposal site. Oro Loma
Sanitary District inspects and maintains approximately 300 miles of sanitary sewer, and it
operates and maintains 14 lift stations. Castro Valley Sanitary District inspects and
maintains approximately 155 miles of sanitary sewer, and it operates and maintains 9 lift
stations.
In compliance with the Regional Water Board’s Time Schedule Order (TSO) No. R2-2003-
0006, a $34 million plant restoration project was completed, and the treatment plant is now
able to provide full secondary treatment for up to 20 MGD ADWF. The project included
upgrading the single existing bar screen with two new barscreens, additional 35 MGD of
Attachment F- Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 66]
East Bay Dischargers Authority ORDER NO. R2-2012-0004
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES NO. CA0037869
influent pumping capacity to provide redundancy for existing influent pumps, replacement
of the grit washing unit, a new chemically enhanced primary treatment facility, enhanced
flocculation wells on existing primary clarifiers, three new 120 feet diameter secondary
clarifiers, a second chlorine contact channel, and boiler room and sludge heating upgrades.
Following the project, the treatment plant performed several major improvements, including
installation of a new 3 meter gravity belt thickener, replacement of all pumps, piping, tanks,
and controls for the sodium hypochlorite dosage system, rehabilitation of anaerobic
digesters, replacement of the belt filter press with two new units, and various plant
maintenance upgrades.
c. San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. The San Leandro Water Pollution Control
Plant serves a population of about 55,000 in the northern two thirds of the City of San
Leandro. The treatment plant provides secondary treatment for up to 7.6 MGD ADWF.
Treatment consists of grinding, primary sedimentation, trickling filter, activated sludge,
secondary clarification, and disinfection by sodium hypochlorite. Treated wastewater from
the wastewater treatment facility is transported to EBDA’s system for final dechlorination
and discharge to the EBDA Common Outfall. The City of San Leandro has 10 acres of out-
of-service oxidation ponds which can be used for emergency storage. Sludge is
anaerobically digested, dewatered using a belt filter press, dried in open drying beds, and
disposed of at an authorized disposal site. The City of San Leandro operates and maintains
130 miles of pipeline from 4 to 33 inches in diameter and 13 lift stations.
The City of San Leandro is planning a major rehabilitation project, estimated to take up to
34 months at a cost of $50 million, as further described in section II.E.3.
d. Union Sanitary District. Union Sanitary District serves the Cities of Fremont, Newark, and
Union City with a combined population of approximately 337,560. Union Sanitary District’s
Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant provides secondary treatment for
up to 33 MGD ADWF from residents, business, and industries. Treatment consists of
screening, primary sedimentation, activated sludge, secondary clarification, and
chlorination. Treated wastewater from the treatment facility is transported to EBDA’s
system for final dechlorination and discharge to the EBDA Common Outfall. Sludge is
thickened, anaerobically digested, dewatered using centrifuges, and disposed of at an
authorized disposal site. Approximately 3 to 5 MGD of reclaimed wastewater from the
treatment facility is delivered to Hayward Marsh as the marsh’s freshwater source via the
EBDA pipeline. Hayward Marsh is operated by the East Bay Regional Park District and is
regulated under NPDES Order No. CA0038636. Union Sanitary District inspects and
maintains over 760 miles of sanita

[Page 72]
3. San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. The City of San Leandro Water Pollution
Control Plant’s Facility Rehabilitation Project began in April 2011 and will continue for 28
to 34 months at an estimated cost of $50 million. Once the Facility Rehabilitation Project is
finished, the treatment plant will be complete with new headworks, a new grit removal
facility, a new influent pump station, and a new primary clarifier. Additionally, the following
improvements will occur: secondary treatment improvements (including replacement of the
Fixed Film Reactor), secondary clarifier improvements, digester improvements, electrical
and instrumentation improvements, and laboratory and administration control building
expansion.
4. Union Sanitary District. In 1998, a study was completed by Carollo Engineers presenting
the findings and recommendations from capacity testing conducted at the treatment plant. All
liquid train process units were stress tested to determine hydraulic and process capacity.
Sol

===PLANNED CHANGES===

