[Page 73]
1. Location and Service Area. The Facility serves eastern San Francisco and portions of Brisbane
and Daly City (served by the City of Brisbane, the Bayshore Sanitary District, and the North
San Mateo County Sanitation District). The service area population is approximately 580,000.
The Southeast Plant is located on Phelps Street at Jarrold Avenue near the Islais Creek Channel.
It provides primary and secondary treatment of combined wastewater and stormwater. The
North Point Facility is located on Bay Street near The Embarcadero. It provides primary
treatment of combined wastewater and stormwater during wet weather. The Bayside Wet
Weather Facilities are located throughout the eastern side of San Francisco, primarily near the
shore. They provide equivalent-to-primary treatment during wet weather.
2. Collection System. The collection system is primarily a combined sewer system that conveys
wastewater and stormwater to the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and Bayside Wet
Weather Facilities. It consists of approximately 600 miles of pipe, and 7 major and 11 minor
pump stations. Separate sanitary and storm drains serve isolated areas, including parts of
Candlestick Point and Mission Bay. The Facility also receives wastewater from three satellite
wastewater collection systems: the Bayshore Sanitary District (portions of Brisbane and Daly
City), the City of Brisbane (residential sector), and the North San Mateo County Sanitation
District (portions of Daly City). For the purposes of this Order, the Facility does not include the
satellite collection systems.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 74]
City and County of San Francisco ORDER No. R2-2013-0029
Southeast Water Pollution Control Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, NPDES No. CA0037664
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities, and Wastewater Collection System
3. Wastewater Treatment. The Discharger operates the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities to maximize treatment.
a. Southeast Plant. During dry weather, the Southeast Plant provides secondary wastewater
treatment. The treatment processes include a headworks (with coarse and fine bar
screens, and grit removal), primary sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen aeration basins,
secondary clarifiers, and chlorine contact basins (for chlorination using sodium
hypochlorite and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite). These processes are shown in
the diagram in Attachment C. The Southeast Plant has a dry weather design capacity of
85.4 MGD. From June 2010 through August 2012, its average dry weather flow was
58 MGD.
During wet weather, the Southeast Plant processes up to 250 MGD of combined
wastewater (i.e., sewage, industrial wastewater, and stormwater). Up to 150 MGD
receives both primary and secondary treatment; the remaining flow (up to 100 MGD)
receives only primary treatment. The entire volume is disinfected prior to discharge.
b. North Point Facility. The North Point Facility discharges only during wet weather and
provides primary treatment of combined wastewater. The treatment consists of bar
screens, sedimentation tanks equipped with skimmers (clarification, removal of
floatables), sodium hypochlorite injection, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite
addition. The North Point Facility can provide primary treatment for up to 150 MGD of
combined wastewater. The entire volume of treated wastewater is disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge. Solids are directed to the Southeast Plant for digestion.
The North Point Facility discharges under the following circumstances:
• the North Shore Storage/Transport Box is at 200 inches;
• within 60 minutes of any combined sewer discharge through Discharge Point Nos.
013 through 017; or
• as necessary to minimize the likelihood of combined sewer discharges in the Central
and Southeast Drainage Basins.
c. Bayside Wet Weather Facilities. During dry weather, storage/transport structures
transport wastewater to the Southeast Plant. During wet weather, these structures transfer
combined wastewater to the Southeast Plant and, if necessary, the North Point Facility.
They also provide storage for more than 120 million gallons of combined wastewater. In
the event that the capacities of the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and
storage/transport structures are exceeded, the combined wastewater receives the
equivalent of primary treatment in the storage/transport structures and is discharged to
San Francisco Bay through any one of 29 shoreline combined sewer discharge structures.
The treatment in the storage/transport structures consists of settling solids with a series of
baffles and weirs that also remove floatable materials prior to discharge. This process
equates to the minimum treatment specified in U.S. EPA’s Combined Sewer Overflow
Control Policy (see Fact Sheet section III.C.8). After the wet weather is over, wastewater
and accumulated solids remaining in the storage/transport structures are sent to the
Southeast Plant for secondary treatment.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 75]
City and County of San Francisco ORDER No. R2-2013-0029
Southeast Water Pollution Control Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, NPDES No. CA0037664
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities, and Wastewater Collection System
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity belt
thickeners for waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and horizontal
bowl centrifuges for dewatering. After digestion, the sludge is conditioned with ferric chloride
and polymer, dewatered, and stored in cake hoppers for hauling. The digested and dewatered
biosolids are beneficially used at a permitted landfill or land-applied at a permitted site.
A portion of the biosolids is blended with green waste to create Class A compost. Class B
biosolids are land-applied on farms in Solano and Sonoma counties or used at a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Dry Weather Discharges. During dry weather, all flow receives secondary treatment and is
discharged to Lower San Francisco Bay (a tidally-influenced, marine waterbody) through a deep
water outfall (Discharge Point No. 001) at Pier 80, which is immediately north of the Islais
Creek Channel. The outfall is approximately 810 feet east of Pier 80 at a depth of approximately
43 feet below mean lower low water. A diffuser at the outfall consists of 18 ports placed
15.9 feet apart on center along the terminal end of the outfall. The length of the diffuser is
oriented approximately 90 degrees off north, perpendicular to the predominant current direction.
The diffuser port openings are 8 inches in diameter, located at an elevation 42 inches above the
sediment bed, and set at 0 degrees from horizontal.
Following a September 2010 inspection that discovered that some fittings on the diffuser
risers had broken off, the Discharger began replacing the discharge ports on the diffuser. The
number of ports will remain the same, but the new ports will be equipped with duckbill
valves to prevent rocks and debris from entering. The duckbill valves will likely increase
dilution at the outfall.
2. Wet Weather Discharges. During wet weather, when secondary treatment capacity at the
Southeast Plant has been exceeded, a portion of the primary-treated effluent bypasses
aeration and secondary clarification. The bypassed primary effluent is chlorinated and
dechlorinated, and then blended with disinfected secondary-treated wastewater and
discharged through Discharge Point No. 001. The discharge from the Southeast Plant through
Discharge Point No. 001 is maximized up to 110 MGD. Effluent flows in excess of 110
MGD are discharged via the Quint Street shallow water outfall into Islais Creek (Discharge
Point No. 002). All effluent discharged through Discharge Point No. 002 receives secondary
treatment, and all primary treated effluent is directed to the deep water outfall. Up to 140
MGD of secondary-treated wastewater may be discharged through Discharge Point No. 002.
Under the most critical circumstances, up to 100 MGD of disinfected primary-treated
effluent may be blended with 10 MGD of disinfected secondary-treated effluent and
discharged through Discharge Point No. 001.
When necessary, treated wastewater from th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has started several infrastructure projects. In October 2012, the Discharger began
the Southeast Plant Northside Facility Reliability Upgrade (Phase 2) project, which is an
$11.5-million project to replace aging secondary sludge handlers and aeration-related electrical
systems and to modify the secondary clarification process. The project is expected to be completed
in August 2014. The Discharger began an Oxygen Generation Plant Replacement project in
December 2012 and plans to complete this $12-million project in December 2013. The Discharger
began dewatering facility corrosion repairs in August 2012, a $9.1-million project to address
corrosion damage to concrete, the sludge piping network, and the electrical system at the sludge
dewatering building. This project is expected to be completed in January 2014. The Discharger is
also designing a project to begin in August 2013 to replace and relocate the sodium hypochlorite
storage tanks for disinfection.
The Discharger’s Sewer System Improvement Program is a three-phase, $6.9-billion effort over the
next 20 years to address deficiencies, improve operational flexibility, provide seismic reliability, and
ensure future compliance with anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. The program will
address aging infrastructure and technologies at the treatment plants and increase the ability of