[Page 68]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 2050
Detroit Drive in San Mateo. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of San Mateo and Foster
City, the Town of Hillsborough, and portions of the City of Belmont and
unincorporated San Mateo County. The plant serves a population of about
150,000. Attachment B provides a map and aerial photo of the area around the
treatment plant.
2.1.2. Collection System. The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from the
City of San Mateo collection system, the City of Foster City Estero Municipal
Improvement District collection system, and four satellite collection systems, all
of which are separate sewer systems. The City of San Mateo collection system
is comprised of approximately 240 miles of publicly-owned pipes and 25 pump
stations. The City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District
collection system is comprised of approximately 66 miles of publicly-owned
pipes and 49 pump stations. The satellite collection systems that contribute to
the City of San Mateo collection system are the City of Belmont (approximately
80 miles of publicly-owned pipes), Crystal Springs Sanitation District
(approximately 19 miles of publicly-owned pipes), Town of Hillsborough
(approximately 98 miles of publicly-owned pipes), and County of San Mateo
Tower Road Complex (approximately 2.4 miles of publicly-owned pipes). The
Discharger is undertaking collection system upgrades as described in Fact
Sheet section 2.5.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 15.7 million gallons per day (MGD).
During dry seasons (May 1 to September 30) from 2018 to 2023, the plant
treated an average daily dry weather flow of 9.9 MGD. The plant treatment
process consists of primary clarification, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 69]
City of San Mateo and Order R2-2023-0017
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES Permit CA0037541
The Discharger is undertaking major plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet
section 2.5). When completed, the plant will provide preliminary screening, grit
removal, fine screening, primary clarification, biological nutrient removal,
filtration with activated sludge treatment (through a membrane bioreactor), and
chlorine disinfection. During peak wet weather, when flows exceed the capacity
of the biological nutrient removal and membrane bioreactor system (ranging
from 21 MGD as a daily average flow to 31.5 MGD for up to 48 hours, and up to
48 MGD for 4 hours) the portion of flows above the membrane bioreactor
capacity will be routed to a separate biological treatment process consisting of a
biological contact tank containing activated sludge and a high-rate clarifier that
uses flocculation to increase the solids settling rate. Wastewater routed through
this separate wet weather treatment process will also be disinfected. This
treatment configuration is not considered a bypass because all wastewater will
receive biological treatment. This will allow the plant to treat peak wet weather
flows up to 60 MGD. The Discharger will be able to manage peak wet weather
flows of up to 78 MGD by storing screened wastewater in onsite equalization
basins.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the current treatment plant and the

[Page 72]
The total suspended solids violation on June 3, 2020, occurred due to a
combination of saltwater intrusion from Leslie Creek into the collection
system and the dissolved air flotation unit, which removes suspended solids,
being offline for repairs. In response, the Discharger conducted smoke tests
to identify the area of the collection system allowing saltwater intrusion but
was unable to determine points of inflow to target for maintenance. In 2022,
the Discharger added an aeration basin, for a total of four online aeration
basins, and has not experienced total suspended solids issues related to
saltwater intrusion. Additionally, the Discharger created a standard operating
procedure detailing how to mitigate saltwater intrusion.
The total suspended solids and carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand
violations on July 2, 2022, occurred due to two of the Discharger’s secondary
clarifiers being offline for routine maintenance. In response, the Discharger
updated its standard operating procedures to only allow one secondary
clarifier to be taken offline for maintenance at a time, and only when sludge
settling indicators in the wastewater are below levels that would indicate
potential settling issues.
The total residual chlorine violation on July 26, 2022, occurred due to air
getting into the sodium bisulfite (dechlorinating agent) meter during a leak
investigation, causing the sodium bisulfite pump to operate at its minimum
speed and resulting in a positive chlorine residual in the effluent. In response,
the Discharger updated its sodium bisulfite emergency response procedures
to prevent the discharge of chlorinated effluent. All sodium bisulfite pumps
will be replaced by October 2023 as part of the Clean Water Program.
The total residual chlorine violation on June 27, 2023, was due to a sodium
bisulfite pump that overheated and failed. In response, the Discharger
provided operators with additional training on chemical response and
updated its standard operating procedure for chemical response. The
standard operating procedure now requires that, during any chemical
emergency, the effluent pump station be secured and discharge cease until
the emergency is resolved.
2.4.1.2. Unauthorized Discharges

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgraded plant under both dry-weather and wet-weather operations.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with gravity thickeners and waste-activated sludge through dissolved air
flotation, treats the thickened sludge with anaerobic digestion, dewaters the
digested sludge with a centrifuge, and hauls the dewatered, treated biosolids
offsite for disposal. The plant upgrades will not affect the sludge and biosolids
processes.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures most stormwater within
the plant’s storm drain system, which directs the stormwater to the plant’s
influent junction box for treatment. A portion of the onsite stormwater flows
offsite to Seal Slough. This st