[Page 64]
2019, the URDP diverted a total of 209 million gallons for treatment.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of odor
control, screening, grit removal, primary clarification, high purity oxygen
activated sludge, secondary clarification, disinfection, and dechlorination.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic.
During peak wet weather flows, the plant can accept up to 425 MGD of influent
by means of five 85 MGD influent pumps. Since the primary treatment design
capacity is 320 MGD, wet weather flows in excess of the primary treatment
capacity are stored onsite in an 11-million-gallon wet weather concrete storage
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 65]
East Bay Municipal Utility District Order R2-2020-0024
Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037702
basin and returned to the plant influent when flows subside. Primary effluent
may also be diverted around biological treatment, disinfected, and “blended”
with disinfected biologically treated effluent. The “blended” wastewater is then
dechlorinated prior to being discharged to Central San Francisco Bay through a
deepwater outfall. This discharge occurs only after fully using the maximum
biological treatment capacity, which is 168 MGD under optimal conditions.
During wet weather, diverted primary effluent flow can be up to 30 percent of
the total effluent flow. Between 2015 and 2018, the number of blending events
ranged from 1 to 9 per year and each lasted between 3 and 52 hours. Blending
in this manner is a type of bypass subject to Discharge Prohibition 3.3 of the
Order and Attachment D section 1.7.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is thickened, blended,
anaerobically digested, and dewatered before reuse by land application,
compost, or alternate daily cover in an authorized landfill.
2.1.5. Resource Recovery. The Discharger’s Resource Recovery Program manages
the disposal of trucked waste to the plant. Types of waste typically hauled to the
plant include septage; food industry waste, such as winery, dairy, and other
high-total-dissolved-solids waste; animal processing waste; food scraps; and
food grade fats, oils, and greases. The Resource Recovery Program reduces
the amount of organic wastes diverted to landfills and increases methane
production for renewable power generation.
2.1.6. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all
stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the plant’s headworks for
treatment.
2.1.7. Recycled Water. The Discharger generates up to 2.3 million gallons of tertiary-
treated recycled water per day by using microfiltration and disinfection as part of
the East Bayshore Recycled Water Project. The recycled water is currently
used for irrigation, toilet flushing, and building cooling in parts of Oakland and
Emeryville, and there are plans to expand into Berkeley, Albany, and Alameda.
State Water Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW sets forth water recycling
requirements for this project.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. The plant

===PLANNED CHANGES===

