[Page 61]
3. Treatment Description. Treatment processes consist of screening, grit removal, flow equalization,
primary sedimentation, biological treatment (trickling filters), secondary clarification, disinfection
(chlorination), and dechlorination. Chlorine contact is accomplished in the effluent force main,
which is approximately 6.5 miles long, and dechlorination is accomplished by sodium bisulfite
addition at Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County (Tiburon) prior to discharge.
The Plant has a wet weather treatment capacity of 24.7 MGD based on the equalized flow capacity,
which takes into account the hydraulic constraints of all processing units, including the
equalization ponds (3.3 million gallons total storage capacity) and the effluent pumps (24.7 MGD
to 27 MGD processing capacity, depending on tidal conditions and use of the shared outfall by
Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County). During wet weather, when influent flows exceed 24.7
MGD, the effluent from the primary clarifiers may bypass the trickling filters and secondary
clarifiers and mix with secondary treated effluent before disinfection and discharge (Discharge
Point No.001 at Raccoon Strait in Central San Francisco Bay). This bypass, or blending, occurs by
design because the tank holding primary effluent (recirculation wet well) and the tank holding
secondary effluent (effluent wet well) lay side-by-side. The wall that separates the two wells has
ports running the length of the wall at a height of 13.0 feet. When the level of the recirculation wet
well rises above the 13.0 feet level, primary effluent flows into the effluent wet well and blending
occurs. This bypass, or diverting primary effluent around the secondary treatment units, prevents a
washout of microbial populations in the secondary treatment system which is critical to achieving
compliance with secondary treatment standards. It also helps alleviate the flow in the equalization
ponds and, thereby, helps prevent sewer backups and overflows in basements or on city streets.
The Discharger has an emergency outlet at the north equalization pond. During extreme peak
flow conditions, when influent flow exceeds 24.7 MGD for an extended time and the capacity
of the effluent pumps is reached, the equalization ponds could overflow. When this happens,
partially treated yet diluted wastewater in the equalization ponds could be released into
Richardson Bay. Such discharge, performed only under emergency situations to avoid sewage
backups in the collection systems, is not authorized by this Order and is subject to Discharge
Prohibition III.C.
A treatment process schematic diagram is included as Attachment C of this Order.
4. Biosolids Management. Solids removed from the wastewater stream are treated by gravity
thickening, primary and secondary digestion, and dewatering by belt filter press. During the winter
months, dewatered biosolids are sent to the Redwood Sanitary Landfill in Novato, where they are
composted with yard waste and used for daily cover at the landfill. During warmer months,
dewatered solids may be land-applied by Synagro West at a reuse site located on Lakeville
Highway in Sonoma County. The Discharger currently generates and reclaims about 263 dry tons
of biosolids per year.
5. Stormwater Discharge. The Plant headworks receives drainage from the area in front of the solids
handling units (i.e., belt filter press, grit and screenings, chemical feed room) and the area
surrounding the dump station for septic haulers. The remaining storm drains at the Plant are not
connected to the headworks. The Discharger is covered under the State Water Board’s statewide
industrial stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) for stormwater
runoff from the parts of the Plant that do not drain back to the headworks.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 62]
SEWERAGE AGENCY OF SOUTHERN MARIN ORDER No. R2-2012-0094
NPDES No. CA0037711
6. Water Recycling. The Discharger reclaims wastewater under General Water Reuse Order No.
96-011. Reclaimed water reuse is intermittent with an average of approximately 0.038 MGD
provided for landscape irrigation (7 MG/yr during the typical irrigation season of May through
Octobe

===PLANNED CHANGES===

