[Page 53]
2. Collection System. The City of San Jose and the City of Santa Clara individually own and
operate their respective collection systems. The City of San Jose sanitary sewer system
consists of approximately 2,250 miles of sewer pipes, including 10 miles of force main and
16 pump stations. The collected wastewater is conveyed to the Facility by interceptor
pipelines located in northern San Jose.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 54]
City of San Jose, City of Santa Clara ORDER No. R2-2014-0034
San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility and Collection Systems NPDES No. CA0037842
The City of Santa Clara sanitary sewer system consists of approximately 270 miles of sewer
mains and two large pump stations, each with a flow meter, and four smaller un-metered lift
stations. The system includes two force mains (totaling 4 miles), 26 siphons, and an
additional main line meter station to measure flow at the Guadalupe outfall to the conveyance
pipe to the Facility.
The Facility also serves five additional satellite collection systems as described in the above
paragraph A.1. Satellite collection systems are not part of the Facility subject to this Order.
Each satellite collection system is owned, operated, and maintained independently and is
responsible for ongoing maintenance and capital improvements to ensure adequate capacity
and reliability.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The Plant provides treatment consisting of influent screening and
grit removal; primary clarification; secondary treatment with an activated sludge process
with two parallel aeration basin treatment trains configured and operated for biological
nutrient removal (BNR); secondary clarifiers; dual media gravity filtration; and disinfection
with chlorine, ammonia removal, and dechlorination (sulfur dioxide). Attachment C contains
a flow schematic that shows these steps.
Treated effluent is discharged to Artesian Slough. The Plant has an average dry weather
design capacity of 167 million gallons per day (MGD). Annual average effluent flows in
2012 and 2013 were approximately 94 MGD and 89 MGD, with daily maximum flows of
approximately 132 MGD and 108 MGD.
An 8-million-gallon emergency basin is available for temporary storage prior to the Plant
headworks, along with an additional 16 million gallons of storage after the primary clarifiers.
A 10-million-gallon overflow basin is also available for any overflows from the 16-million-
gallon equalization basin. The Plant is designed to route fully treated secondary effluent in
excess of the filtration design capacity around the filters (250 MGD) during extreme wet
weather flow events and to recombine it with filter effluent prior to disinfection.
a. Preliminary Treatment. Preliminary treatment consists of screens followed by grit removal.
b. Primary Treatment. Following preliminary treatment, wastewater is pumped into
rectangular primary clarifiers to remove floatable and settleable material.
c. Biological Treatment. All wastewater receives biological treatment. A modified biological
nutrient removal (BNR) process is employed that is designed to remove BOD and ammonia
(NH ) in the same aeration basins. Each basin is divided into four sections referred to as
3
“quads.” The first and third quads are operated under anoxic conditions, while the second
and fourth quads are operated under aerobic conditions. This configuration achieves effective
filament control and allows for some denitrification.
d. Filtration Process. Following biological treatment, the wastewater undergoes filtration.
There are 16 separate dual media filters, 4 of which are dedicated to producing Title 22
unrestricted-use reclaimed water and 12 of which produce water suitable for discharge to San
Francisco Bay. Frequent filter backwashing to clean the filter media is a routine part of the
filter operation. Filter backwash water is sent to a backwash equalization basin for storage,
followed by flocculation and sedimentation. The treated backwash water is pumped to
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 55]
City of San Jose, City of Santa Clara ORDER No. R2-2014-0034
San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility and Collection Systems NPDES No. CA0037842
chlorine contact tanks for disinfection prior to discharge to San Francisco Bay. The settled
solids from the backwash water are pumped back to primary treatment.
e. Disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are metered into the filter effluent at the
head of four serpentine chlorine contact channels to produce a solution of chloramines for
disinfection. As the effluent leaves the contact channels its chlorine residual is measured, and
an appropriate amount of sodium bisulfite is added to neutralize the hypochlorite. The portion
of the effluent diverted for recycled water use is not neutralized with sodium bisulfite.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digesters. The process consists of dissolved air
flotation (DAF) thickening, anaerobic digestion, lagoon stabilization, and dewatering using
sludge drying beds. Once dried, the Class A biosolids are trucked to the Newby Island
Landfill for use as alternative daily cover.
5. Reclamation. The Discharger provides approximately 14 MGD of treated wastewater for
non-potable purposes to customers throughout the service area via the South Bay Water
Recycling Program. Uses include irrigation of golf courses, parks and playgrounds, farms,
and industrial use. Recycled water is also available for construction use at remote locations.
Approximately 0.10 MGD of treated wastewater is used onsite for landscape irrigation.
Regional Water Board Order No. R2-1995-0117 sets forth water recycling requirements for
the South Bay Water Recycling Program.
6. Stormwater Management. All stormwater from within the Plant’s boundaries is directed to the
Plant’s headworks; therefore, coverage under the statewide permit for discharges of stormwater
associated with industrial activities (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) is not required.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The effluent receives advanced secondary treatment and is discharged to Artesian Slough via a
discharge channel, where it mixes with Coyote Creek and then San Francisco Bay water. When
the Facility’s flow equalization capabilities are maximized, flows exceeding 250 MGD may
bypass the advanced-secondary-treatment filters and recombine with the effluent flow prior to
disinfection.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report Data
Effluent limitations contained in the previous order and representative monitoring data from the
previous order term are presented below:
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data
Monitoring
Effluent Limitations Data
(6/09 – 7/13)
Parameter Units
Instant- Instant-
Monthly Weekly Daily Highest Daily
aneous aneo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects during this permit term. These changes
are described for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this Order except to
the extent that they pertain to increasing or ensuring treatment or wastewater collection system
reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board authorization. The
Discharger must seek any necessary permits or permit modifications to implement the changes.
1. Solids Handling. The Discharger intends to rehabilitate its digesters 5, 6, 7, and 8 with new
covers and mixing systems and rehabilitate the heating systems and gas piping. It will also
rehabilitate DAF tanks to facilitate co-thickening of primary and secondary sludge.
2. South Bay Shoreline Study. The Discharger is working with the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, the California Coastal Conservancy, and the Santa Clara Valley Water District to
construct a flood protection levee along the northern boundary of the Plant’s operational area.
3. Silicon Valley Advanced Water Purification Center. In 2011, the City of San Jose, in
col