[Page 56]
1. Location and Service Area. The plant is located at 500 Davidson Street in Novato, Marin
County. It provides secondary treatment of wastewater from domestic and non-domestic
wastewater from the City of Novato and adjacent unincorporated Marin County. The Facility
serves a population of approximately 60,000.
2. Collection System. The collection system consists of approximately 212 miles of gravity
sewer mains, 23 miles of pressure sewer mains, and 39 pump stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 7.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a sustained three-hour peak
wet weather flow of 47 MGD. Between September 2015 and July 2019, the plant treated a
daily average flow of 5.0 MGD, with the maximum daily flow peaking at 30.3 MGD.
The treatment process consists of influent screening and grit removal, primary clarification,
activated sludge secondary treatment with nitrification and partial denitrification, secondary
clarification, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 57]
Novato Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020-0019
Novato Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037958
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The plant produces an average of 740 dry metric tons
of biosolids per year. The sludge treatment process consists of gravity belt waste activated
sludge thickening and anaerobic digestion of primary sludge and thickened waste activated
sludge. The digested sludge is then pumped to sludge lagoons for further thickening and then
applied to a 14.4-acre dedicated land disposal site, both located east of the treatment plant
(see Attachment B).
5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
headworks for treatment; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are necessary.
6. Water Recycling and Reclamation. The Discharger operates a recycled water treatment
system. Regional Water Board Order No. 96-011 regulates the production of up to 1.7 MGD
of disinfected tertiary recycled water for the North Marin Water District for subsequent
distribution to landscape irrigation customers.
The Discharger has two storage ponds with a combined storage capacity of 180 million
gallons and an irrigation pump station. The effluent from these ponds meets California Code
of Regulations, Title 22, section 60304(d) standards. Preceding or during the dry season
(typically between June 1 and August 31), the Discharger diverts secondary-treated treated
effluent to its storage ponds for subsequent pumping to approximately 800 acres of
pasturelands. The pasturelands are comprised of Site 2 (161 acres), which the Discharger
owns, and Sites 3 (234 acres) and 7 (409 acres), which Marin County leases to the
Discharger. This lease will expire in 2023. The pastureland irrigation is regulated under
Regional Water Board Order No. 92-065.
During the dry season, the Discharger also provides about 221,000 gallons per day of
secondary treated effluent to the Bel Marin Keys Unit V restor

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to relocate its discharge location to create and support new brackish marsh
habitat as part of the State Coastal Conservancy’s Bel Marin Keys Unit V wetland restoration
project as described in Fact Sheet section II.C.
The Marin County Flood Control and Water Conservation District has long-term plans to
implement tidal wetland restoration projects on Sites 3 and 7 of the Discharger’s pasture
irrigation lands (see Fact Sheet section II.A.6). Implementing these projects would require the
Discharger to cease pasture irrigation, which could occur during this Order term. The Discharger
relied on pasture irrigation to comply with the previous order’s discharge prohibition to San
Pablo Bay during the dry season (typically bet