[Page 38]
1. Location and Service Area. The Facility is located at 2600 Grant Avenue in San Lorenzo. It
provides secondary treatment and disinfection of domestic and commercial wastewater from
the communities of San Lorenzo, Ashland, Cherryland, Castro Valley, and Fairview, and
portions of the cities of San Leandro and Hayward. The estimated service area population is
about 190,000. Attachment B provides maps of the area around the Facility.
Wastewater Treatment. After completion of nitrogen treatment optimization upgrades (see
Fact Sheet section II.E), the plant will provide advanced-secondary treatment for an average
dry weather design flow of 20.0 MGD. (Between 2012 and 2017, the average daily flow to
the EBDA pipeline was 12.1 MGD.) The wastewater treatment process will consist of
screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge year-round nitrification and
partial denitrification, secondary clarification, and chlorine disinfection. Prior to any wet
weather or maintenance exercise discharge, or discharge associated with a continuous
discharge evaluation in accordance with Provision VI.C.4.d, the Discharger will also
dechlorinate the wastewater. Attachment C provides flow schematics.
Effluent ammonia concentrations may be higher during lower temperature winter conditions
because nitrification (conversion of ammonia to nitrate) will be mediated by specific bacteria
that are less efficient in converting ammonia to nitrate at lower temperatures. Effluent
ammonia concentrations may also be higher during peak wet weather events when the
nitrifying bacteria will be more susceptible to hydraulic washout. During such events, the
plant may not provide adequate residence time for nitrification and denitrification
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 39]
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2018-0010
Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge NPDES No. CA0037559
(conversion of nitrate to nitrogen gas, which is released to the atmosphere). The Discharger
will use available basins to store solids containing the necessary microorganisms and reduce
the potential for washout.
2. Stormwater. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the statewide NPDES
permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities (NPDES General
Permit No. CAS000001) because all stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the Facility are collected and directed to the plant headworks for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Water
This Order covers intermittent discharges of secondary-treated, disinfected, and dechlorinated
municipal wastewater to the Discharger’s wet weather outfall. These discharges will occur in Lower
San Francisco Bay (Discharge Point No. 001). During the dry season, the Discharger will provide
advanced-secondary treatment and discharge effluent through the EBDA deepwater outfall.
The wet weather outfall is a shallow-water outfall without a diffuser. The discharge location is
approximately 920 feet offshore. There will be two types of discharges from the shallow-water
outfall: (1) discharges during peak wet weather events, and (2) discharges during the dry season
from maintenance exercises to ensure outfall operability. The Discharger may also submit a
proposal to discharge for up to 30 days during the dry season to evaluate the potential for using the
shallow-water outfall year-round.
The contract with EBDA and its member agencies allots 30.0 MGD of flow capacity in the EBDA
pipeline to the Discharger. If the plant effluent flow exceeds the 30.0 MGD maximum contractual
capacity and available equalization basin storage, the Discharger will discharge to the shallow-water
outfall. The Discharger will stop discharging to the shallow-water outfall when plant effluent flow
drops below approximately 30.0 MGD.
The Discharger will conduct maintenance exercise discharges to ensure that the shallow-water
outfall line is flushed of naturally-occurring sediment accumulation and that control valves and
dechlorination equipment are operational in advance of the wet season (November 1 to April 30)
when it may be necessary to discharge during peak wet weather events. The maintenance exercise
discharges may be conducted for up to ten days per year during the dry season (May 1 to October
31) and will not exceed two consecutive days of discharge or more than 10 MGD.
Wet weather discharges will be infrequent. The Discharger will minimize discharges to Lower San
Francisco Bay by using its 8.0-million-gallon (MG) Ecotone Project equalization basin to store peak
flows. When the equalization basin is full (or projected to be full given peak flows), effluent flow
above the Discharger’s contractual flow of 30.0 MGD will be discharged to the shallow-water
outfall. At the end of each storm, water stored in the equalization basin will be routed back to the
plant headworks. Wet weather discharges are only expected during peak wet weather events when
natural flows in adjacent San Lorenzo Creek and Bockman Canal are higher than the average dry
weather flow.
C. Summary of Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data
This Order is a new NPDES permit, but prior to adoption of this Order, discharges from the
Facility were regulated under NPDES Permit No. CA0037869 (EBDA Com

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Prior to commencing the shallow-water discharge, the Discharger plans to replace the aeration basin
mechanical surface aeration devices with a fine-bubble aeration system that will provide sufficient
aeration capacity, together with an increase in solids retention time, to facilitate year-round
nitrification. The Discharger will rehabilitate and convert existing, unused secondary clarifiers to
operate as denitrification basins.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with § 13260) for discharges to waters of the State. This Order is also issued
pursuant to Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and implementing regulations adopted by
U.S. EPA, and Water Code chapter 5.5, divisi