[Page 66]
Alameda County Flood Control & Water Conservation District stormwater
system to the plant. The project runs regularly during the dry season and
occasionally during dry periods of the wet season. Since its inception in 2017,
the URDP has diverted a total of 670 million gallons for treatment.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of odor
control, screening, grit removal, primary clarification, high purity oxygen
activated sludge, secondary clarification, disinfection, and dechlorination.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic.
During peak wet weather flows, the plant can accept up to 425 MGD of influent
by means of five 85 MGD influent pumps. Since the primary treatment design
capacity is 320 MGD, wet weather flows in excess of the primary treatment
capacity are stored onsite in an 11-million-gallon wet weather concrete storage
basin and returned to the plant influent when flows subside. Primary effluent
may also be diverted around biological treatment, disinfected, and “blended”
with disinfected biologically treated effluent. The “blended” wastewater is then
dechlorinated prior to being discharged to Central San Francisco Bay through a
deepwater outfall. This discharge occurs only after fully using the maximum
biological treatment capacity, which is 168 MGD under optimal conditions.
During wet weather, diverted primary effluent flow can be up to 30 percent of
the total effluent flow. From 2021 through 2024, the number of blending events
ranged from 2 to 10 per yea

[Page 66]
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger treats sludge resulting
from treatment of both municipal wastewater and trucked-in wastes. The solids
handling process at the Facility includes gravity belt thickeners, eleven
anaerobic digestors, and five dewatering centrifuges. The digesters are
maintained at a certain residence time and temperature to meet U.S. EPA
Class B standards. The digested sludge is then dewatered in one of five
centrifuges. The resulting material, referred to as biosolids, is hauled offsite by
a contractor for beneficial reuse as soil amendment.
The Discharger contracts with Synagro-WWT, Inc. (Synagro) for hauling about
90 percent of its biosolids that are land applied in dry weather or composted.
For the remaining 10 percent of is biosolids, the Discharger contracts with
Lystek International (Lystek) to convert them into liquid fertilizer.
2.1.5. Resource Recovery. The Discharger’s Resource Recovery Program manages
the disposal of trucked waste to the plant. Types of waste typically hauled to the
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 67]
East Bay Municipal Utility District Order R2-2026-

[Page 67]
MainWastewaterTreatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0037702
plant include septage; food industry waste, such as winery, dairy, and other
high-total-dissolved-solids waste; animal processing waste; food scraps; and
food grade fats, oils, and greases. The Resource Recovery Program reduces
the amount of organic wastes diverted to landfills and increases methane
production for renewable power generation.
2.1.6. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all
stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the plant’s headworks for
treatment.
2.1.7. Recycled Water. The Discharger generates tertiary-treated recycled water
using microfiltration and disinfection as part of the East Bayshore Recycled
Water Project, which has a production capacity of up to 2.9 million gallons per
day. The recycled water is currently used for irrigation in parts of Oakland and
Emeryville, and there are plans to expand recycled water service to Alameda.
State Water Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW sets forth water recycling
requirements for this project.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger plans, at a minimum, to rehabilitate the
secondary clarifiers, the oxygen production plant, and grit dewatering over the next
five years.
The Discharger is conducting a multi-year pilot study to optimize and possibly
modify its high purity oxygen activated sludge process to improve biological
nutrient removal. If the pilot is successful, the Discharger could implement
changes ranging from simple process updates to equipment upgrades and/or new
facilities for supplemental treatment. The Discharger will report on the status of
this effort annually, as required by Order R2-2024-0013, the Nutrients Watershed
Permit.
2.6 Sea Level Rise. To adapt to rising sea levels, the Discharger developed a sea
level ri