[Page 60]
1. City of Livermore Water Reclamation Plant. The City of Livermore owns and operates the
Livermore Water Reclamation Plant, which serves approximately 83,600 people from the City
of Livermore. The treatment plant provides secondary treatment for up to 8.5 MGD ADWF.
Treatment consists of screening, grit removal, pre-aeration, primary clarification with ferric
chloride addition for hydrogen sulfide control in the digestion process, activated sludge,
secondary clarification and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite. During high flow events, a
side flow weir in the influent manhole structure diverts peak untreated wastewater flows to a
15 million gallon emergency holding basin. Additionally, an average of 1.3 MGD of wastewater
receives tertiary treatment and is used as recycled water and sent to the Zone 1 Distribution
System. This water is diverted after the secondary clarifiers and is routed through in-line
granular media filtration and ultraviolet disinfection. Sludge is anaerobically digested,
dewatered using belt filter presses, and trucked offsite by a private contractor. The City of
Livermore discharges treated effluent to the Livermore Interceptor that transports flow to the
LAVWMA export pump station where it combines with DSRSD’s treated effluent. The
collection system consists of 280 miles of sewer pipelines and two pump stations.
2. LAVWMA. LAVWMA is a joint powers agency created in 1974 for wastewater management
planning for the service areas of the City of Livermore, the City of Pleasanton, and DSRSD.
Additionally, LAVWMA receives Zone 7 reverse osmosis reject water, which is combined with
treated wastewater from the DSRSD Wastewater Treatment Plant in the DSRSD Export
Pipeline after DSRSD wastewater has been treated. By contractual agreement, DSRSD is
responsible for operating and maintaining LAVWMA’s export pump station and pipeline
facilities and for performing and submitting the self-monitoring requirements for the
LAVWMA facilities. DSRSD’s and Livermore’s treated wastewaters combine and flow to
flow-equalization basins before being pumped via LAVWMA’s pipeline to the EBDA system
for final dechlorination and discharge to the EBDA Common Outfall. EBDA is responsible for
the combined transport, dechlorination, and discharge of LAVWMA’s treated wastewater by
contractual agreement.
3. JEPA. The Joint Exercise of Power Agency (JEPA) delegates the authority and responsibility to
EBDA to assure compliance with all effluent discharge requirements. It is the intent of the JEPA
to allow determination of compliance with waste discharge requirements by considering EBDA
Attachment F- Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 61]

===PLANNED CHANGES===

