[Page 59]
2019.
Attachment C provides Facility flow schematics. The wastewater treatment process consists
of two mechanically-cleaned fine screens, two aerated grit chambers, one 80-foot-diameter
primary clarifier (which can provide partial flow equalization) and two 65-foot-diameter
primary clarifiers, two trickling filters, a secondary clarifier, a fixed film reactor for
nitrification, eight anthracite deep-bed filters, and two underground chlorine contact basins.
Disinfection occurs using sodium hypochlorite, followed by dechlorination using sodium
bisulfite.
Treated effluent is discharged to Miller Creek during the wet season. During the dry season,
treated effluent is routed to an onsite reclamation system and re-used (see Fact Sheet
section II.A.6). In the event of high wastewater flows from early or late season storms,
treated and dechlorinated effluent may be discharged to Miller Creek.
During wet weather, when primary-treated flows exceed the plant’s biological capacity of
8 MGD and all onsite storage is used, additional flows are diverted around biological
treatment units and “blended” with fully-treated effluent. After disinfection, the blended flow
is dechlorinated prior to discharge. The following summarizes operations at varying influent
flows:
a. Flows up to approximately 6.9 MGD receive primary treatment, biological treatment,
nitrification, deep bed filtration, and disinfection. (The maximum flow rate through the
deep bed filters can be less than 6.9 MGD depending on loads and other operating
conditions.)
b. Flows above approximately 6.9 MGD and up to 8 MGD receive primary treatment,
biological treatment, partial deep bed filtration, and disinfection.
c. Flows above 8 MGD and up to 21.6 MGD receive primary treatment, partial deep bed
filtration, and disinfection before blending with biologically-treated flows.
d. Flows above 21.6 and up to 25 MGD (the plant’s peak hydraulic capacity) receive
primary treatment and disinfection before blending with biologically-treated flows.
Flows bypassing biological treatment are subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C of the Order
and Attachment D section I.G. For purposes of this Order, flows routed around nitrification
and deep bed filtration are not considered bypasses subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C of
the Order and Attachment D section I.G.
Upon completion of plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet section II.E), the plant’s biological
treatment capacity will increase to about 18 MGD. The upgraded treatment process will
consist of two mechanically-cleaned fine screens, two aerated grit chambers, one 80-foot-
diameter primary clarifier and two 65-foot-diameter primary clarifiers, a hybrid fixed-
film/activated sludge secondary treatment system with four parallel basins, two secondary
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 60]
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020-0022
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037851
clarifiers, and two underground chlorine contact basins. The fixed film/activated sludge
system will provide nitrification and partial denitrification. Disinfection and dechlorination
will remain unchanged.
The Facility may need to continue blending primary-treated wastewater with biologically-
treated wastewater under very high flow conditions, which are expected to occur
infrequently. Under those conditions, flows up to about 18 MGD will receive full biological
treatment and disinfection, while flows above 18 mgd and up to 25 mgd (the plant’s
hydraulic capacity) will receive primary treatment and disinfection before blending.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Grit, screenings, and a portion of the material skimmed
from the treatment processes is disposed of in the Redwood Sanitary Landfill. Other solids
are treated by gravity thickening and anaerobic digestion in primary and secondary digesters
and then pumped to three sludge storage lagoons. The sludge storage lagoons are double-
lined and have a total capacity of approximately 3.2 million gallons. Biosolids are ultimately
disposed of onsite at the Discharger’s 9-acre land disposal site.
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the statewide
NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities (NPDES
General Permit No. CAS000001) because all stormwater at the plant is collected and
recycled or routed to the plant’s headworks for treatment.
6. Recycled Water. During the dry weather “reclamation” season (June through October, plus
May when conditions allow), treated effluent is reclaimed onsite in accordance with Order
No. 92-064. The onsite reclamation system consists of two 20-acre storage ponds, a 20-acre
freshwater marsh/wildlife pond, and 200 acres of irrigated pasture. The storage ponds are
used to dechlorinate the effluent through natural processes. From 2015 through 2018, the
average volume of plant effluent applied to the pasture was 76.4 million gallons per year,
approximately 8.1 percent of the Discharger’s annual flow volume. The Discharger may
return surplus water remaining in the storage ponds at the end of the reclamation season to
the plant for treatment and discharge to Miller Creek.
Since 2012, the Discharger has operated its own onsite water recycling facility. The Las
Gallinas Recycled Water Facility produces disinfected tertiary recycled water by further
treating the secondary effluent using ultrafiltration and ultraviolet disinfection. The recycled
water is delivered to the North Marin Water District, which transmits and distributes it for
irrigation in the southern Novato area. From 2015 through 2018, the North Marin Water
District recycled an average volume of 39.7 million gallons per year, approximately
4.2 percent of the Discharger’s annual flow volume. The Discharger and the North Marin
Water District are permitted sep

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger’s existing secondary treatment process is undergoing a major upgrade as part of
a project that also includes expansion of the Recycled Water Facility. The following upgrades
will be implemented through a series of construction phases:
• The existing grit chambers will be upgraded.
• A primary effluent pump station will be constructed to lift primary effluent into the new
secondary treatment facilities.
• The existing rock biofilters and nitrification fixed film reactor will be replaced with a
combined fixed film/activated sludge nitrification/denitrification system, with associated
sludge collection systems. This new treatment process will increase the peak wet weather
biological treatment capacity from 8 MGD to 18 MGD.
• The existing deep bed filters will no longer be used for treatment prior to discharge, but the
filter effluent channel will continue to serve as the influent wet well for the Recycled Water
Facility. The filter structure will serve as a wet well and equalization basin for the plant
drainage system.
• The existing secondary clarifier will be demolished, and two larger secondary clarifiers will
be constructed.
• The existing chlorination and dechlorination storage and feed facilities will be upgraded, and
modifications will be made to the chlorine contact chamber piping.
• Two mechanical disc thickener units will be constructed to thicken the combined primary
and secondary sludge stream.
• The hydraulic grade line of the new treatment and disinfection facilities will be raised by 4.3
feet to protect against expected sea level rise. This increase in elevation is expected to
provide protection for the next 65 years, according to projections by the San Francisco Bay
Conservation and Development Commission and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.
• The treatment plant’s yard piping, air and water utilities, and electrical, process control, and
emergency power systems will be upgraded.
The project, which began in February 2019, will be constructed in three phases over a period of
approximately three years. The fixed film/activated sludge basins and associated facilities are
scheduled to be operational by September 2020. Because only the existing secondary clarifier
will be in service at that time, the biological treatment capacity will remain 8 MGD until the
project is completed in 2022.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11
[Page 66]
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020-0022
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037851
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves