[Page 60]
3. Treatment Description. Treatment processes consist of screening (two bar screens), grit removal
(vortex-type grit remover), primary sedimentation (two primary clarifiers), secondary biological
treatment (four aeration basins), secondary clarification (four secondary clarifiers), and chlorine
disinfection. Treated wastewater is discharged to the NBSU forcemain at Discharge Point No. 001
where it is transported to the South San Francisco and San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant for
dechlorination prior to discharge to Lower San Francisco Bay from Discharge Point No. 002.
These steps are shown in the process flow diagram in Attachment C.
During wet weather, primary effluent flows in excess of 13 MGD (maximum secondary treatment
capacity) are directed to the onsite temporary storage units, which include an offline primary
clarifier (0.45 million gallons [MG]), a stormwater retention basin (1.6 MG), and an offline
aeration basin (0.33 MG). When the storage units reach their maximum capacity, primary effluent
flows in excess of 13 MGD are blended with secondary effluent. The blended effluent is
disinfected and discharged to the NBSU forcemain. Such bypasses and blending prevent washout
of microbial populations in the secondary treatment units, which are critical to achieving
compliance with secondary treatment standards. Stored water from the temporary storage facilities
is returned to the primary clarifier for full treatment after the influent flow rate subsides to a level
that is protective of secondary treatment processes.
4. Biosolids Management. Primary sludge is treated via gravity sludge thickening and secondary
sludge is thickened via a gravity belt thickener. Thickened sludge is fed to two anaerobic digesters
and is dewatered by a belt press or centrifuge. Dewatered sludge is trucked to either composting
sites, land application sites, or landfills for disposal. Trucking and disposal of biosolids is managed
under contract by Synagro Technologies, Inc. (Suisun City).
5. Stormwater Discharge. Most stormwater captured within the Plant’s storm drain system is
directed to the headworks. The remaining storm drains are not connected to the headworks. The
Discharger is covered under the State Water Resources Control Board’s (State Water Board)
statewide industrial stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) for
stormwater runoff from the parts of the Plant that do not drain to the headworks.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Treated effluent flows through a 60-inch NBSU forcemain and discharges into Lower San
Francisco Bay at Discharge Point No. 002 via a 654-foot multi-port diffuser composed of ninety
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 61]
City of Burlingame and ORDER NO. R2-2013-0015
North Bayside System Unit NPDES NO. CA0037788
four 3-inch ports spaced 7 feet apart. The lo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

