[Page 54]
2. Collection System. The Sonoma Valley County Sanitation District owns the wastewater
collection system within its service area. It consists of 135 miles of sewer lines and 2 pump
stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. Influent is treated by debris removal using bar screens, grit removal
using a vortex tank, primary treatment and flow equalization using aerated equalization
basins, secondary treatment using aeration basins, solids removal using secondary clarifiers,
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 55]
Sonoma Valley County Sanitation District Order No. R2-2019-0019
SVCSD Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037800
tertiary treatment using cloth media filtration, chlorination using chlorine contact chambers,
and dechlorination using sulfur dioxide.
The Facility provides tertiary treatment (secondary treatment with filtration) of all
wastewater. The Facility has an average dry weather design flow of 3.0 million gallons per
day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 16.0 MGD. Average daily flow from August
2015 through July 2018 ranged from 2.9 to 4.5 MGD. The maximum daily flow over the
same period ranged from 16 to 23 MGD.
Attachment C provides treatment plant flow schematics.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Biosolids from the secondary clarifiers are processed
using polymer addition, a gravity thickener, and a screw press. Supernatant from the
dewatering process is returned to the headworks for treatment. Dewatered biosolids are
disposed of at an offsite landfill.
5. Recycling. The treatment plant produces recycled wastewater under the Regional Water
Board’s General Water Reuse Requirements for Municipal Wastewater and Water Agencies
(Order No. 96-011) for agricultural irrigation, landscape irrigation, and trucked purposes
(dust control, fire suppression, soil compaction, irrigation, herbicide/pesticide dilution). The
Discharger also provides recycled water to Management Units 1 and 3 (Discharge Point Nos.
004 and 005) during the dry season (August to October) and to Pond 7A or a constructed
mixing chamber for restoration of saline ponds in the Napa-Sonoma Salt Marsh (Discharge
Point Nos. 006 and 007) to restore and enhance the ecological value of these habitats. The
plant’s recycling facilities include recycled water storage ponds and a 3.5-mile pipeline.
During the permit term, the Discharger will be transferred from Order No. 96-011 to the
State Water Board’s Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Order No.
WQ 2016-0068-DDW). The Discharger will receive written notification regarding when
Order No. 2016-0068-DDW will take effect.
6. Stormwater Management. All stormwater from the plant property is collected and directed
to the headworks for treatment; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Discharge Point No. 001. When there is insufficient demand for recycled water, tertiary-treated
wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 into Schell Slough, a tidally-influenced
waterbody downstream of Schell Creek. Schell Slough is a dead-end slough and is flushed

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete a number of projects during this permit term. These changes
are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this Order,
except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not
imply Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger may need to conduct environmental
review or obtain necessary permits or permit modifications to implement the changes. The
Discharger plans to complete the following:
• New headworks screens,
• Seismic retrofit of two 140-foot diameter concrete clarifier tanks,
• Re-lining of four equalization basins at the Facility,
• Automation to improve remote operations control and functionality of the Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition system,
• Electrical resiliency project to improve safety and plant reliability during power outages, and
• Replacing and increasing capacity of about 8,500 feet of sewer trunk mains.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9
[Page 60]
Sonoma Valley County Sanitation Dis