[Page 64]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area. The Discharger is a California special district that provides
wastewater resource recovery services for over 218,000 customers in the cities
of Antioch and Pittsburg, and the unincorporated Bay Point community in east
Contra Costa County. These services include wastewater collection and
conveyance, wastewater treatment, recycled water production and distribution,
renewable energy production, beneficial biosolids reuse, pretreatment and
pollution prevention, street sweeping, and household hazardous waste
collection. The Facility has an average dry weather design capacity of
19.5 MGD and a wet weather hydraulic capacity of 31.1 MGD. In 2024, the
annual average daily flow was 13.5 MGD, with a maximum wet weather daily
flow of 18.1 MGD. The average dry weather influent flow during the previous
permit term was about 13.4 MGD.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. Attachment B, Figure B-2, shows the plant layout.
Attachment C shows the flow schematic for the Facility. The treatment process
includes bar screens, aerated grit chambers, primary clarifiers, trickling towers
or aeration basins, or both (parallel treatment processes), secondary clarifiers,
secondary chlorine contact tanks, and the addition of sodium bisulfite for
dechlorination.
During periods of exceptionally high flows, wastewater in excess of the
secondary treatment capacity can be stored in equalization basins within the
Discharger’s conveyance system (5.2 MG) and in onsite storage (14 MG) for
treatment after the high flows subside.
According to demand, undisinfected secondary effluent is diverted to the
Discharger’s Recycled Water Facility, where it undergoes additional tertiary
treatment, described in Section 2.1.6 below.
Two power plants, the Delta Energy Center and Los Medanos Energy Center,
use and return recycled water from the Recycled Water Facility as cooling tower
blowdown. On average, together, the power plants return 0.94 MGD of
blowdown. The Discharger also receives an average of 0.0091 MGD (excluding
days with no discharge) of high-dissolved-solids industrial brine from the
Corteva Agriscience – Pittsburg Operations plant. This enables the power
plants that receive recycled water to more efficiently reuse it. The Discharger
introduces these flows to its treatment process after secondary clarification, just
prior to disinfection and dechlorination, to minimize total dissolved solids (TDS)
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 65]
Delta Diablo Order R2-2026-0004
Delta DiabloWastewaterTreatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0038547
concentrations in its tertiary-treated water. However, it also can return these
flows to its headworks. The Discharger also plans to begin accepting RO
concentrate during this permit term. The RO concentrate will be introduced after
disinfection and either before or after dechlorination to minimize recycled water
TDS concentrations. The acceptance of these flows after biological treatment is
appropriate because they do not contain high concentrations of organic waste
or suspended solids. Additionally, the high TDS concentrations in these flows
could adversely affect biological treatment. The final combined effluent must
comply with all the effluent and receiving water requirements of this Order.
2.1.3. Sanitary Sewer Systems. The Discharger owns, operates, and maintains
43 miles of gravity sewers in the Bay Point community, while the cities of
Antioch and Pittsburg own and operate their own collection systems,
approximately 130 miles and 300 miles, respectively.
The Discharger also owns, operates, and maintains 14.3 miles of 12-to-42-inch
diameter gravity sewer interceptors, 18.2 miles of 4-to-24-inch diameter force
mains, flow equalization and diversion facilities, and five wastewater pumping
stations.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The solids handling process at the
Facility includes gravity belt thickening, anaerobic digestion, and dewatering via
centrifuges. For biosolids disposal, the Discharger either land applies, contracts
landfill disposal, or contracts further treatment of its biosolids for fertilizer or
composting reuse.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Facility routes the stormwater collected on site
to the Emergency Retention Basin and then to Tower Pumping Station for
secondary treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger provides recycled wastewater under State
Water Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW. The Discharger routes about ten
percent of its recycled water for landscape irrigation and the remainder is
primarily sent to the two power plants for use as cooling water and boiler
makeup water.
The Discharger routes approximately half of its flow, up to a maximum of
12.8 MGD, to the Recycled Water Facility prior to disinfection in the secondary
chlorine contact tanks. The Recycled Water Facility further treats the
wastewater to the tertiary treatment standards in California Code of
Regulations, Title 22, Division 4, section 60301.230, via flocculating clarifiers,
sand filters, and tertiary chlorine contact tanks. In 2024, the annual average
daily flow was 6.0 MGD and the maximum daily flow was 12.0 MGD. Sludge
from the tertiary treatment processes are returned to the plant headworks. The
Discharger may also return tertiary-treated effluent to the plant upstream of the
chlorine contact tanks for discharge through Discharge Point 001.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 66]
Delta Diablo Order R2-2026-0004
Delta DiabloWastewaterTreatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0038547
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Water. The Discharger routes its final effluent to
New York Slough via a 400-foot iron pipe diffuser located about 500 feet offshore,
about 26 feet deep. The diffuser is outfitted wit

[Page 68]
During extreme wet weather on December 31, 2022, the Discharger’s
headworks overflowed for about one hour and fifteen minutes. The Discharger
contained 80,625 gallons of the spill onsite and estimated that it discharged
approximately 3,750 gallons of untreated sewage to a stormwater drainage
canal. As a corrective measure, the Discharger indicates that it will place
sandbags around the headworks area when large storms are expected.
2.4.2. Sanitary Sewer Systems. The table below summarizes Category 1 sanitary
sewer spill rates for the last five years. Category 1 Spills were defined under the
2022 statewide WDRs as those that reach surface waters.
Table F-3. Sanitary Sewer Systems and Category 1 Spill Rates (Spills/100 miles)
(Values based on CIWQS data analysis completed in June 2024) [1]

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. The Discharger plans to complete the following projects
during this permit term. These changes are mentioned here for informational
purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 69]
Delta Diablo Order R2-2026-0004
Delta DiabloWastewaterTreatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0038547
they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply
Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain other
necessary permits or permit modifications to implement these changes.
· Improve the secondary treatment process and nutrient removal by replacing the
trickling filters with additional aeration basins, adding another secondary
clarifier, and building another return activated sludge pump station;
· Rehabilitate the cogeneration system by replacing the engine and its associated
equipment;
· Start accepting reverse osmosis (RO) concentrate from the Antioch Brackish
Water Desalination Plant, which will upgrade the City of Antioch’s drinking water
treatment plant to reduce salinity in treated river water. The project will route
2.0 MGD of RO concentrate to the Facility for blending with its treated effluent
and discharge to New York Slough. The Discharger expects the City of Antioch
to complete the project by the end