[Page 56]
2.92 MGD – Average dry weather treatment capacity
Design Flow 8.0 MGD – Peak wet weather secondary treatment capacity
25 MGD – Peak wet weather hydraulic capacity
Watershed San Pablo Bay
Receiving Water Miller Creek
Receiving Water Type Estuarine
A. The Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District (Discharger) is the owner and operator of the Las Gallinas
Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant and its wastewater collection system (collectively,
the Facility), which provide secondary treatment of the wastewater collected from its service area.
During the wet season, the Facility discharges treated effluent to Miller Creek, a water of the United
States within the San Pablo Bay watershed. During the dry season, the Discharger stores effluent
onsite or reclaims it (i.e., does not discharge it to Miller Creek).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 57]
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District ORDER No. R2-2015-0021
NPDES No. CA0037851
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable federal
and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references to the Discharger
herein.
B. The Discharger is regulated pursuant to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Permit No. CA0037851. It was previously subject to Order No. R2-2009-0070 (previous order),
which was adopted on October 14, 2009, expired on November 30, 2014, and was administratively
extended by operation of law. The Discharger was also subject to Cease and Desist Order
No. R2-2009-0071, which addressed the Discharger’s inability to comply with the previous order’s
copper effluent limits.
C. The Discharger filed a Report of Waste Discharge and submitted an application for reissuance of its
WDRs and NPDES permit on June 3, 2014.
D. The Discharger is also regulated under Water Reuse Order No. 89-127, Water Reuse Order
No. 92-064, and General Water Reuse Order No. 96-011, which establish requirements on water
reclamation and reuse. This Order does not affect those orders.
E. The discharge is also regulated under NPDES Permit Nos. CA0038849 and CA0038873, which
establish requirements on mercury and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and nutrients. This Order
does not affect those permits.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Location and Service Area. The treatment plant is located at 300 Smith Ranch Road in San
Rafael. It provides primary and secondary treatment of domestic wastewater collected from the
northern area of the City of San Rafael and unincorporated portions of Marin County. The
service area population is approximately 30,000. Attachment B provides a map of the area
around the Facility.
2. Collection System. The collection system consists of 105 miles of gravity-flow sanitary sewer
lines and 6.7 miles of pressure sewers, which range in diameter from 6 to 30 inches. There are
28 lift stations. Several small satellite collection systems connect to the Facility. The largest are
two mobile home parks that contribute approximately 2.6 percent and 2.0 percent of the
treatment plant flow. The remaining satellite systems are much smaller.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant has a dry weather flow design capacity of 2.92 million
gallons per day (MGD) and can treat up to approximately 9 MGD with full secondary treatment
(although its reliable process capacity is 8 MGD). From December 2009 through October 2014,
the average dry weather effluent flow was 2.11 MGD (determined from July through
September) and its average wet weather effluent flow was 3.23 MGD (determined from
November through April). The maximum daily effluent flow was 12.36 MGD.
Treatment processes include two mechanically-cleaned fine screens, two aerated grit chambers,
one 80-foot diameter primary clarifier/flow equalization basin, two 65-foot diameter primary
clarifiers, two trickling filters, a secondary clarifier, a fixed film reactor for nitrification, eight
coarse media (anthracite) deep-bed filters, and two underground chlorine contact basins.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 58]
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District ORDER No. R2-2015-0021
NPDES No. CA0037851
Disinfection occurs using sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
Treated effluent is discharged to Miller Creek during the wet season. During the dry season,
treated effluent is routed to an onsite reclamation system and re-used (see Fact Sheet section
II.A.4). In the event of high wastewater flows resulting from early or late season storms, treated
and dechlorinated effluent may be discharged to Miller Creek. Attachment C provides Facility
flow schematics.
Due to high inflow and infiltration during wet weather, the Discharger sometimes blends
primary-treated wastewater with secondary-treated wastewater prior to discharge. Flows up to
8 MGD (and potentially up to 9 MGD) receive full secondary treatment. Any additional flows
are diverted around the secondary treatment units and blended with secondary-treated effluent.
After disinfection, the blended flow is dechlorinated prior to discharge. The following
summarizes operations at varying influent flows:
a. Flows up to approximately 6.9 MGD receive secondary treatment, plus nitrification, deep
bed filtration, and disinfection. (The maximum flow rate through the deep bed filters can be
less than 6.9 MGD depending on loads and other operating conditions.)
b. Flows above approximately 6.9 MGD and up to 8 MGD (and possibly 9 MGD) receive
secondary treatment and disinfection.
c. Flows above 8 or 9 MGD and up to 21.6 MGD receive primary treatment, and partial deep
bed filtration, and disinfection before blending with secondary-treated flows.
d. Flows above 21.6 and up to 25 MGD (the plant’s peak hydraulic capacity) receive primary
treatment and disinfection before blending.
4. Water Recycling Activities. During dry weather (June through October, plus May when
conditions allow), treated effluent is reclaimed onsite in accordance with Order No. 92-064. The
onsite reclamation system consists of two 20-acre storage ponds, a 20-acre freshwater
marsh/wildlife pond, and 200 acres of irrigated pasture. The storage ponds dechlorinate the
effluent through natural processes. The Discharger returns surplus water remaining in the
storage ponds at the end of the reclamation season to the plant for treatment before discharge to
Miller Creek.
Plant effluent and water from the storage ponds are also used by the Marin Municipal Water
District as feedstock in its recycled water plant, which produces disinfected tertiary recycled
water during summer for distribution throughout its northern San Rafael service area. The
recycled water is used for landscape irrigation and other approved uses. From 2010 through
2013, the average effluent volume recycled was 170 million gallons per year, approximately
16.5 percent of the Discharger’s annual effluent volume. The recycled water project is permitted
under Water Reuse Order No. 89-127, issued jointly to the Marin Municipal Water District and
the Discharger.
Since 2012, the Discharger has begun operating its own onsite water recycling facility. The Las
Gallinas Recycled Water Facility produces disinfected tertiary recycled water by further treating
the secondary effluent using ultrafiltration and ultraviolet disinfection. The North Marin Water
District transmits and distributes this recycled water for irrigation in the southern Novato area.
During 2013, the first full year of its operation, 47 million gallons of the effluent (4.6 percent of
annual effluent volume) was recycled through the North Marin Water District system. The
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 59]
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District ORDER No. R2-2015-0021
NPDES No. CA0037851
Discharger and the North Marin Water District are permitted separately (as producer and
distributor) under General Reuse Order No. 96-011.
5. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Grit, screenings, and a portion of the skimmed material is
placed in the Redwood Sanitary Landfill. Other solids are treated by gravity thickening and
anaerobic digestion in primary and secondary digesters and then pumped to three sludge storage
lagoons. Solids from the Marin Municipal Water District recycled water plant are also pumped
through the plant or directly to the sludge storage lagoons. The sludge storage lagoons are
double-lined and have a total capacity of approximately 3.2 million gallons. Biosolids are
ultimately disposed of onsite at the Discharger’s 9-acre land disposal site.
6. Stormwater Management. All stormwater within the plant boundaries, excluding the
reclamation area, is directed to the plant headworks; therefore, coverage under the statewide
permit for discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activities (NPDES General Permit
No. CAS000001) is not required. Stormwater accumulated in the storage ponds at the
reclamation area may be recycled as described above or routed to the headworks. Direct
discharge to Miller Creek is prohibited (see Discharge Prohibition III.B).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
There are two discharge points (001 and 002) to Miller Creek, which flows to San Pablo Bay. The
plant is located slightly over 1 mile upstream from San Pablo Bay. Under normal conditions, plant
effluent is split between Discharge Point Nos. 001 and 002, with the majority dis

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of implementing treatment alternatives it envisioned in 2012 to
reduce blending during wet weather. The conceptual design is still in progress, but the alternatives
will likely include construction of an additional secondary clarifier, a flow equalization basin (1.0 to
1.2 million gallons), and an activated sludge process unit. The new facilities would be at a higher
elevation than the existing facilities in anticipation of sea-level rise. These projects, with an
anticipated cost of $30 million, will not affect the discharge location or quantity, or decrease
discharge quality.
F. Blending Summary
Blending occurred 51 times over the previous order term, totaling approximately 138 million
gallons or 4.6 perc