[Page 73]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area. This Order regulates two separate wastewater treatment plants
that combine their treated wastewater prior to discharge through a common
outfall. Attachment B shows the area around the plants and the common outfall.
The West County Plant serves about 102,000 people in San Pablo, portions of
Pinole and Richmond, and some unincorporated areas in Contra Costa County.
It has an average dry weather design capacity of 12.5 MGD and a wet weather
hydraulic capacity of 21 MGD. The average dry weather influent flow during the
previous permit term was about 7.2 MGD.
The Richmond Plant serves about 72,000 people, with a service area covering
the majority of the City of Richmond. It has an average dry weather design
capacity of 16 MGD and a wet weather hydraulic capacity of 20 MGD. Veolia
North America operates the Richmond Plant. The average dry weather influent
flow during the previous permit term was about 4.9 MGD.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. Attachment C shows the flow diagrams for the West
County Plant and the Richmond Plant.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 74]
West County Agency Order R2-2024-0008
West County Agency Outfall NPDES Permit CA0038539
2.1.2.1. West County Wastewater District Water Pollution Control Plant. The
wastewater treatment process at the West County Plant includes
equalization basins, bar screens, grit removal, primary clarifiers, aeration
basins with anaerobic chambers (for nutrient removal using a Modified
Ludzack-Ettinger [MLE] biological nutrient removal [BNR] process),
secondary clarifiers, and chlorine contact chambers. In 2023, the West
County Wastewater District converted a sludge lagoon into a 23.4 MG
equalization basin, increasing the total equalization basin capacity to 76.4
MG.
The West County Wastewater District routes a portion of its treated
wastewater to the Richmond Advanced Recycled Expansion (RARE)
facility and the North Richmond Water Reclamation Plant for recycling at
the Chevron refinery. It pumps the remainder of its treated wastewater to
the Richmond Plant to be combined with the Richmond Plant effluent,
dechlorinated, and discharged to Central San Francisco Bay via the West
County Agency deep water outfall.
2.1.2.2. Richmond Municipal Sewer District Water Pollution Control Plant.
The wastewater treatment process at the Richmond Plant consists of a
bar screen, fine bar screens, grit removal, primary clarifiers, aeration
basins, secondary clarifiers, and chlorine contact basins. The Richmond
Municipal Sewer District completed most of the Richmond Plant Critical
Improvement Project in January 2024, which included installing a new fine
bar screens and grit removal, upgrading the mechanical surface aerators
to more efficient diffused aerators in its aeration basins, and replacing the
secondary clarifier mechanisms. The dechlorination system for both plants
is located at the Richmond Plant and is jointly owned by the Dischargers.
The Dischargers upgraded the dechlorination system in 2023.
` During wet weather, primary-treated wastewater flows above 20.0 MGD
are bypassed around biological treatment when necessary and stored in
equalization basins. Once the equalization basins are filled, if flows
continue to exceed 20.0 MGD, they are bypassed around biological
treatment and blended with biologically-treated wastewater prior to
disinfection.
2.1.3. Sanitary Sewer Systems. The West County Wastewater District and City of
Richmond independently own and operate their treatment plants and the
sanitary sewer systems within their separate service areas. The West County
Wastewater District has about 252 miles of gravity sewers and 6 miles of force
mains with 17 pump stations. The City of Richmond has about 187 miles of
gravity sewers and 15 miles of force mains with 14 pump stations. Both sanitary
sewer systems are separately covered by the Statewide General Waste
Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems (State Water Board Order
WQ 2022-0103-DWQ).
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 75]
West County Agency Order R2-2024-0008
West County Agency Outfall NPDES Permit CA0038539
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. At the Richmond Plant, secondary
activated sludge is sent to the dissolved air flotation thickener, combined with
primary sludge, anaerobically digested, and pumped via a shared sludge and
leachate line to the West County Plant for drying and disposal at a landfill.
During this Order term, the Richmond Municipal Sewer District plans to replace
the dissolved air flotation thickener with a rotary drum thickener as a part of its
Richmond Plant Critical Improvement Project.
At the West County Plant, primary clarifier sludge is combined with secondary
clarifier sludge that has been thickened using dissolved air flotation, and then
dewatered via a belt press. The West County Plant’s biosolids are land-applied
at a landfill or sent to a composting facility for further treatment. The West
County Wastewater District plans to complete construction of a thermal dryer
for biosolids from both plants by the end of 2024. This will decrease
greenhouse gas emissions, provide Class A biosolids, and no longer require the
use of sludge drying beds. The West County Wastewater District demolished its
anaerobic digesters during the previous order term and began updating its
sludge lagoons for other functions.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plants is directed to the respective plant’s
headworks. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The West County Wastewater District recycles about 4 to
6.5 MGD (approximately 2 billion gallons annually) of treated wastewater from
the West County Plant by sending it to the East Bay Municipal Utility District for
treatment and use at the Chevron Refinery.
2.1.7.

[Page 78]
2022. According to the Dischargers, two of the ammonia violations occurred
when the Richmond Plant’s ability to convert ammonia to nitrate declined. This
occurred in November 2019 when the mixed liquor settleable solids
concentration decreased, and in July 2022 when elevated temperatures
reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations within the plant. The third ammonia
violation occurred in September 2020 when the Richmond Plant’s dissolved air
flotation thickener failed and, while a temporary system ran with a portable
gravity belt thickener, the operator overfed a digester. The City of Richmond
and Richmond Municipal Sewer District No. 1 plan to replace the dissolved air
flotation thickener with a rotary drum thickener by November 2024 as part of the
Critical Improvement Project.
The City of Richmond and Richmond Municipal Sewer District No. 1 reported 60
BOD violations, 82 TSS violations, and 2 total coliform violations at Monitoring
Location EFF-002. These violations occurred before or during construction of
the Critical Improvement Project at the Richmond Plant. That project was
mostly completed by January 2024. The upgraded treatment facilities are
expected to improve TSS and BOD removal and produce higher quality effluent.
See Attachment F section 2.1.2.2 for more information on the Critical
Improvement Project.
The West County Wastewater District did not report any effluent limit violations
during the previous order term, but it did report an unauthorized discharge of
41.4 million gallons of raw sewage and stormwa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. The Dischargers plan to complete the following projects
during this order term. These changes are mentioned here for informational
purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that
they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply
Regional Water Board authorization. The Dischargers may need to obtain
necessary permits or permit modifications to implement these changes.
2.1.7.1. West County Wastewater District. Under the Clean and Green Project, the
West County Wastewater District plans to complete the following by the end
of 2024:
• Install additional solar panels
• Install electrical cogeneration
• Install new centrifuges
• Install new chemical carbon redirection to divert organic load from
secondary system to digesters (enhance gas production)
• Install new biosolids belt drier to allow repurposing of the sludge lagoons
property and to provide Class A biosolids
• Replace dissolved air flotation thickener with rotary drum thickeners
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 76]
West County Agency Order R2-2024-0008
West County Agency Outfall NPDES Permit CA0038539
• Install new primary sludge pumps and grinders to reduce impacts from
rags
• Install new grit removal system
• Install new anaerobic digesters and rehabilitate the digested sludge
storage system
• Install new flare system
Other projects planned for this order term include the following:
• New battery energy storage system to provide microgrid capabilities and
two hours of emergency power for the West County Plant by late 2025
• Horizontal Levee Project, currently in design
• Secondary clarifier upgrades by 2027
• Rehabilitation of the return activated sludge system by 2027
2.1.7.2. City of Richmond and Richmond Municipal Sewer District No. 1. The
City of Richmond and Richmond Municipal Sewer District No. 1 plan to
replace the sludge thickening unit by March 2025.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. Treated wastewater from the
Richmond and West County plants is combined, dechlorinated at the Richmond
Plant, and discharged to Central San Francisco Bay through a submerged, multi-
port diffuser (Discharge Point 001) located approximately 8,200 feet offshore at a
depth of about 24 to 32 feet below mean sea level. The diffuser consists of a
6-foot diameter, 1,112-foot long reinforced concrete pipe embedded into the
channel bottom and aligned in an east-west orientation. The diffuser has 140 ports
spaced 8-feet apart discharging horizontally in alternating directions. The first port
is 8,166 feet from shore.
2.3. Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data. The table below presents the
previous order’s effluent limitations and repres