[Page 58]
3. Treatment Description. Treatment processes consist of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation, secondary biological treatment, secondary clarification and ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection. These steps are shown in the process flow diagram in Attachment C.
4. Discharge Point. Secondary-treated wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Suisun
Bay about 3.5 miles from the Facility via a submerged outfall equipped with a multiport
diffuser. The location of the outfall diffuser is approximately 1600 feet offshore at an average
depth of approximately 24 feet. The diffuser is 6 feet in diameter and imbedded 4 feet into the
sediment. The diffuser is oriented nearly perpendicular to the shoreline. It consists of 11
upward-facing ports separated 11.5 feet on center, for a total length of 115 feet.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 59]
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District Order No. R2-2012-0016
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0037648
The Plant has holding basins for temporary storage of wet weather flows, with a combined
volume of 170 million gallons. These basins are used to store excess wastewater after primary
treatment when inflow exceeds the Plant’s secondary treatment capacity. When flows subside,
the stored wastewater is routed back to the headworks for full treatment.
5. Recycled Water. In 2010, the Discharger diverted approximately 600 million gallons of UV-
disinfected effluent from the outfall to the Recycling Plant for tertiary treatment through
sand/anthracite filtration and chlorine disinfection. This recycled water volume represents about
4% of the total wastewater treated. Recycled water is stored in a covered seven million gallon
reservoir prior to distribution. Recycled water customers include landscape irrigators,
corporation yards, private soil farms, concrete recycling and batch plants, and the county animal
shelter. Recycled water activities are regulated under Regional Water Board Order No. 96-011.
6. Biosolids Management. Secondary sludge is thickened via dissolved air flotation, combined
with primary sludge and lime, dewatered by centrifuges, and incinerated on-site. Ash is hauled
by a contractor to an off-site recycling facility and used as a soil amendment. If Facility
incinerators are inoperable, biosolids may be hauled to local landfills for disposal or to an East
Bay Municipal Utility District site for treatment prior to disposal.
7. Stormwater Discharge. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide industrial stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES General Permit
No. CAS000001). All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or sewage at the Plant and
the pump stations serving the Plant are collected and directed to the headworks for treatment.
8. Outfall Pipe Maintenance. About every 5 to 10 years, during the dry season, the Discharger
drains and inspects its 3.5-mile long, 72-inch reinforced concrete outfall pipe to verify the
alignment and assess the physical integrity of the pipe joint seals. During this time, fully-treated
effluent is diverted to a holding basin and then discharged to Walnut Creek from a concrete wei

===PLANNED CHANGES===

