[Page 66]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The Discharger was formed under a Joint Powers
Agreement in 1979 and is comprised of six member agencies: Almonte Sanitary
District, Alto Sanitary District, Homestead Valley Sanitary District, City of Mill
Valley, Richardson Bay Sanitary District, and Tamalpais Community Services
District. The Discharger owns and operates the treatment plant and its
associated wastewater collection and conveyance system. The treatment plant,
located within the City of Mill Valley at 450 Sycamore Avenue, provides
secondary treatment of domestic wastewater for its six member agencies. The
service area population is approximately 29,000. Attachment B provides a map
of the area around the Facility.
2.1.2 Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates sewer pipelines that
collect and convey wastewater from the member agencies’ satellite collection
systems to the treatment plant. The Discharger’s conveyance system consists
of approximately 3.5 miles of force mains, 5.5 miles of gravity lines, and six
pump stations. Under agreement with the City of Mill Valley, the Discharger
operates two lift stations within the Mill Valley service area (i.e., the Frontage
Road Lift Station and Shelter Bay Lift Station). Each satellite collection system
is owned and operated independently from the Discharger and collects
wastewater from its respective service area. These collection systems, and the
Discharger’s wastewater collection and conveyance system, are covered under
the Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements General Order for Sanitary
Sewer Systems (Order WQ 2022-0103-DWQ).
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment plant has a dry weather design capacity
of 3.6 million gallons per day (MGD) and can treat up to 24.7 MGD during wet
weather (based on equalized flow capacity of the treatment plant) when the
influent concentration of organic matter is lower. From May 1, 2020, through
April 30, 2023, the average daily flow was 2.5 MGD and the maximum daily flow
was 30 MGD. The wastewater treatment process consists of screening, grit
removal, flow equalization, primary sedimentation, biological treatment (trickling
filters), secondary clarification, disinfection (chlorination), gravity thickening, and
solids digestion and dewatering. Chlorine contact is accomplished in the
effluent force main, which is approximately 6.5 miles long, and dechlorination is
accomplished by sodium bisulfite addition at Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin
County (Tiburon) prior to discharge. Attachment C of this Order contains a
treatment process schematic diagram.
During wet weather, when primary-treated flows exceed the plant’s biological
treatment capacity of 24.7 MGD and all onsite storage is used, the effluent from
the primary clarifiers may bypass the trickling filters and secondary clarifiers
and mix with biologically-treated effluent before disinfection and discharge. The
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 67]
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2-2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037711
tank holding primary effluent (the recirculation wet well) and tank holding
biologically-treated effluent (the effluent wet well) lay side-by-side. The wall that
separates the two has ports running its length at a height of 13.0 feet. When the
water level in the recirculation wet well rises above the 13.0 feet, primary
effluent flows into the effluent wet well and blending occurs. Blending prevents
a washout of microbial populations in that system and prevents sewer backups.
Blending is subject to Discharge Prohibition 3.3, Attachment D section 1.7 (see
Fact Sheet section 4.1.3), and Provision 6.3.5.3.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Solids removed from the wastewater
stream are treated by gravity thickening, primary and secondary digestion, and
dewatering by belt filter press. Dewatered biosolids are sent to the Redwood
Sanitary Landfill in Novato, where they are composted with yard waste and
used for daily cover. The Discharger currently generates and disposes of about
251 dry tons of biosolids per year.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The wastewater treatment plant headworks
receives drainage from the area in front of the solids handling units (i.e., belt
filter press, grit and screening, chemical feed room) and the area surrounding
the dump station for septic haulers. The remaining storm drains at the treatment
plant are not connected to the headworks. The Discharger is covered under the
State Water Board’s statewide industrial stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES
General Permit CAS000001) for stormwater runoff from areas that do not drain
to the headworks.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger’s water recycling facility provides
additional treatment of the wastewater treatment plant produced secondary
effluent via coagulation, sand filtration, and chorine disinfection. The Discharger
currently recycles wastewater under the Regional Water Board General Water
Reuse Requirements for Municipal Wastewater and Water Agencies
Order 96-011, although expects to transition its coverage to the State Water
Board General Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use
Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW during the next permit term. An average of
0.03 MGD of disinfected tertiary t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

