[Page 33]
Description: The Discharger is will replace one of its
two existing trickling filters with a biological nutrient
removal process by converting existing solids contact Load reduction: >30%
City of Hayward
tanks into anoxic and oxic basins, which would treat
Concentration: <20 mg/L
50 percent of the treatment plant flow.
Schedule: Completion by 2025.
Description: The Discharger is converting its existing
activated sludge process to a Modified
Ludzack-Ettinger Process. This new process will nitrify
Oro Loma and Castro and denitrify all dry weather flows. This project Load reduction: >50%
Valley Sanitary includes the construction of a fourth aeration train, a Concentration: <15 mg/L
Districts retrofit of existing mechanical aerators to fine bubble during dry weather
diffusers, the installation of six high efficiency blowers,
and all associated process instrumentation.
Schedule: Completion by 2020.
Description: The Discharger will convert existing
nitrifying aeration basins into a biological nutrient Load reduction: >40%
City of Palo Alto
removal process.
Concentration: <15 mg/L
Schedule: Completion by 2023.
Description: The Discharger will add sequencing batch
City and County of San reactor tanks to its existing three sequencing batch
Francisco (San reactor tanks to implement biological nutrient removal.
Concentration: <15 mg/L
Francisco International
Schedule: Completion of the additional sequencing
Airport)
batch reactor tanks by 2022.
Description: The Discharger is adding membrane
bioreactors for biological nutrient removal to its
treatment plant as part of its Wastewater Treatment
Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow
Load reduction: >50%
City of San Mateo Management Upgrade and Expansion Project. The
biological nutrient removal process will have a design Concentration: <15 mg/L
capacity of 21 MGD and the ability to treat up to
42 MGD during peak wet weather events.
Schedule: Completion by 2024.
Description: The Discharger currently removes an
annual average of approximately 60 percent of total Load reduction: >20%
City of Sunnyvale
nitrogen from its influent by using oxidation ponds
Concentration: <12 mg/L
year-round. As part of the Sunnyvale Cleanwater
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-17
[Page 34]
San Francisco Bay Nutrients Watershed Permit Order No. R2-2019-0017
Municipal Wastewater Dischargers NPDES No. CA0038873
Program, the Discharger is replacing its secondary
treatment facilities with a Modified Ludzak-Ettinger
process. A portion of this new system will consist of
two aeration basins, four secondary clarifiers, and
associated appurtenances. The system will operate in
parallel with the existing secondary treatment system
(oxidation ponds, fixed-growth reactor nitrification,
and dissolved air flotation), where two-thirds of
primary-treated flow will be treated by the Modified
Ludzak-Ettinger process and the remaining one-third of
the flow will be treated by the existing secondary
treatment system.
Schedule: Completion by 2025.
Description: The Discharger will replace its treatment
plant with a new water recycling facility that will
incorporate nitrification and denitrification in its
treatment processes and will produce an average dry
U.S. Department of weather flow of 1.3 MGD of Title 22 disinfected
Navy (Treasure Island) tertiary-treated recycled water. The incorporation of Concentration: <8.1 mg/L
[1]
denitrification and the resulting increase in recycled
water production are expected to significantly reduce
nitrogen loading.
Schedule: Completion by 2022.
Footnote:
[1] The U.S. Department of Navy plans to transfer ownership of the Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant to the City
and County of San Francisco. The City and County of San Francisco will own the new treatment plant and associated
nutri

===PLANNED CHANGES===

