[Page 87]
250 MGD – Wet weather design flow capacity in which 150 MGD
Facility Design Flow receives primary and secondary treatment and an additional 100 MGD
receives only primary treatment.
North Point Wet Weather Facility:
150 MGD - Wet weather design flow capacity which receives primary
treatment.
CIWQS Regulatory Measure 337351
Watershed San Francisco Bay
Receiving Water Central San Francisco Bay
Receiving Water Type Marine
A. The City and County of San Francisco, (hereinafter Discharger) is the owner and operator
of the Southeast Water Pollution Control Plant (Southeast Plant), North Point Wet Weather
Facility, and Bayside Wet Weather Facilities.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable
federal and state laws, regulations, plans, or policies are held to be equivalent to
references to the Discharger herein.
B. The Southeast Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, and Bayside Wet Weather
Facilities discharge a combination of primary and secondary treated combined wastewater
and stormwater into the Lower San Francisco Bay and the Central San Francisco Bay,
waters of the United States, and are currently regulated by Order No. R2-2002-0073
(CIWQS Regulatory Measure 131370) and NPDES Permit No. CA0037664, which was
adopted on June 19, 2002, and expires on May 31, 2007.
C. The Discharger filed a Report of Waste Discharge and submitted an application for
renewal of its Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and NPDES permit on
November 30, 2006.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger’s combined sewer system is designed to collect and provide wastewater
treatment for a service area that includes the City of San Francisco, the Bayshore Sanitary
District (portions of Brisbane, Colma, South San Francisco, and Daly City), the City of
Brisbane (residential sector), and the North San Mateo County Sanitation District (portion
of Daly City). The Discharger’s service area has a population of almost 556,000. The
collection system consists of 600 miles of pipe and seven major and eleven minor pump
stations. The Discharger is responsible for this collection system but the Discharger is not
responsible for collection systems controlled by satellite agencies.
The Discharger’s combined sewer system consists of three main components: the
Southeast Plant, the North Point Wet Weather Facility, and the Bayside Wet Weather
Facilities. The Southeast Plant provides secondary wastewater treatment during dry
weather conditions; and during wet weather the Plant also provides primary treatment for
the combined stormwater and sewage. The North Point Wet Weather Facility operates
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 88]
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, SAN FRANCISCO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION ORDER NO. R2-2008-0007
SOUTHEAST WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT, NORTH POINT WET WEATHER NPDES NO. CA0037664
FACILITY, AND BAYSIDE WET WEATHER FACILITIES,
only during wet weather and provides primary treatment of combined stormwater and
sewage and industrial wastewater. The Bayside Wet Weather Facilities are a series of
interconnected large underground rectangular tanks and tunnels that, during dry weather,
transport sewage and industrial wastewater to the Southeast Plant but, during wet
weather, these storage/transport structures also provide the equivalent of wet weather
primary treatment to the combined stormwater and wastewater. When capacities at the
treatment plant, wet weather facilities, and storage/transport structures are exceeded, the
excess flow is discharged into San Francisco Bay via 29 shoreline combined sewer
overflow (CSO) structures.
The combined sewer system, with exceptions noted, provides treatment of all dry weather
and wet weather flows. The exceptions are small isolated areas within San Francisco that
are served by separate sanitary and storm drains that include parts of the Lake Merced,
Pine Lake, Golden Gate Park, Seacliff, and McLaren Park neighborhoods; Candlestick
Point; Presidio National Park; and Port of San Francisco property.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment process at the Southeast Plant consists of a headworks (with coarse and
fine bar screens and grit removal), primary sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen aeration
basins, secondary clarifiers and chlorine contact basins (for chlorination using sodium
hypochlorite and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite). A schematic diagram of the
treatment process is included as Attachment C of this Order.
The Southeast Plant has a dry weather design capacity of 84.5 MGD and has had an
average dry weather flow of 63 MGD. During wet weather the Southeast Plant can
process up to 250 MGD of combined stormwater and sewage. Up to 150 MGD receives
both primary and secondary treatment, and the remaining 100 MGD receives only primary
treatment. The entire volume is disinfected prior to discharge.
During dry weather conditions, all flow is discharged through the Southeast Plant deep
water outfall at Pier 80 (Discharge Point 001), during wet weather, this discharge is
maximized to 110 MGD. This can be a mixture of primary and secondary treated
wastewater. During wet weather up to an additional 140 MGD of secondary treated
combined stormwater and wastewater is discharged via the Quint Street shallow water
outfall into Islais Creek (Discharge Point No. 002).
Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification operations is processed via anaerobic
digestion. The digested and dewatered sludge is beneficially re-used as alternative daily
cover at a permitted landfill site or is land applied at a permitted site. The Discharger is
exploring options to reuse biosolids in a Class A compost facility or in a waste to energy
facility.
The treatment process at the North Point Wet Weather Facility consists of primary
sedimentation, clarification, floatables removal, disinfection, and dechlorination. It treats
exclusively wet weather flow consisting of a combination of domestic and industrial
wastewater mixed with stormwater runoff. The treatment level at this wet weather facility
meets the minimum treatment specified by the USEPA Combined Sewer Overflow Control
Policy (50 FR 18688; April 11, 1994). The facility is operational only during wet weather
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 89]
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, SAN FRANCISCO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION ORDER NO. R2-2008-0007
SOUTHEAST WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT, NORTH POINT WET WEATHER NPDES NO. CA0037664
FACILITY, AND BAYSIDE WET WEATHER FACILITIES,
and has the capacity to provide primary treatment to a maximum of 150 MGD of combined
stormwater and sewage and industrial wastewater.
Treated wastewater from the North Point Wet Weather Facility is discharged into San
Francisco Bay through four deep water outfalls, two of which terminate at the end of
Pier 33 (Discharge Points 003 and 004), and two of which terminate at the end of Pier 35
(Discharge Points 005 and 006). The entire volume of treated wastewater is disinfected
and dechlorinated prior to discharge. Primary sludge from this facility is directed to the
Southeast Plant for digestion. The Discharger recently completed several upgrades to the
North Point Wet Weather Facility, including the following:
• Addition of new screens, new dechlorination facilities;
• Replacement of existing wet weather pumps, motors, drives, and bar screens at the
North Shore Pump Station (two for dry weather, one for wet weather);
• Replacement of existing 3/4-inch bar screens with new 3/8 -inch bar screens in the
receiving structure and dumpster enclosure;
• Installation of higher capacity sludge/grit pumps to dewater the sedimentation
buildings;
• Upgrade of selected HVAC systems;
• Installation of a new odor control system;
• Installation of new sodium bisulfite unloading, transfer, storage, and recirculation
systems; and
• Upgrade of electrical systems; and installation of new instrumentation and controls.
In the Bayside Wet Weather Storage/Transport and Diversion Structures, the wastewater,
sewage, stormwater and industrial wastewater is exposed to a series of baffles and weirs
that are designed to remove settleable solids and floatables. The treatment is equivalent
to the minimum treatment specified by the USEPA Combined Sewer Overflow Control
Policy (50 FR 18688; April 11, 1994). During dry weather, these storage/transport
structures transport wastewater to the Southeast Plant, but during wet weather, these
structures provide storage capacity for stormwater flows, while pumps transfer the
combined wastewater and stormwater to the Southeast Plant at a steady flow rate. If, in
wet weather, the capacity of the storage structure is exceeded, the combined wastewater
and stormwater, after receiving the equivalent of wet weather primary treatment, is
discharged into San Francisco Bay via any one of the 29 shoreline combined sewer
overflow structures. After the rainstorm subsides, the solids that settle out in primary
treatment are flushed to the Southeast Plant for anaerobic digestion.
The Discharger is responsible for operating the combined sewer system at optimal
efficiency in order to maximize treatment during wet weather. The previous Order
(R2-2002-0073) defined performance criteria for operation of the Discharger’s combined
sewer system, identified the average number of combined sewer overflow occurrences by
areas within the City based upon system design criteria, and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

