[Page 67]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The plant is located at 195 Belle Air Road in the
City of South San Francisco. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of South San Francisco and
San Bruno, the Town of Colma, and portions of the City of Daly City. The plants
serve a population of approximately 109,350.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer System. The City of South San Francisco sanitary sewer
system and City of San Bruno sanitary sewer system are covered by this order
and convey wastewater to the plant. The South San Francisco sanitary sewer
system consists of approximately 148 miles of gravity sewer pipes and force
mains and 7 pump stations. The San Bruno sanitary sewer system consists of
approximately 85 miles of sewer pipes and force mains and 6 pump stations.
The Town of Colma (6.3 miles of sewer pipes and force main) and City of Daly
City operate satellite collection systems that transmit wastewater to the South
San Francisco collection system.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 68]
Cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and NBSU Order R2-2026-0010
South San Francisco–Sa

[Page 69]
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary
clarification operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process
consists of gravity and mechanical thickeners or waste activated sludge
thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and belt filter presses for
dewatering. The digested and dewatered biosolids are hauled offsite to a
permitted regional reuse site, where thermal hydrolysis is deployed to produce
biofertilizer.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters. Treated effluent flows through the
60-inch NBSU force main into Lower San Francisco Bay at Discharge Point 002
via a 620-foot diffuser composed of 66 ports (3-inch diameter) spaced 7 feet apart
and 28 ports (2.8-inch diameter) spaced 6 feet apart. The location of the outfall i

===PLANNED CHANGES===

