[Page 68]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal system which
provides sewerage service to the community of San Simeon and the Hearst San Simeon National
Historic Monument visitor center. The collection system is composed of approximately 1.6 miles of
predominately 6-inch diameter pipe. The existing treatment plant has been in operation since 1961
and is considered a secondary treatment facility. The treatment system consists of a bar screen,
comminutor, a 90,000-gallon equalization basin, four activated sludge tanks, four secondary
clarifiers, a chlorine contact chamber, and dechlorination. A tertiary treatment package unit was
constructed in 2012 to provide recycled water for irrigation use within the service area.
Biosolids from the clarifiers are pumped to a spare aeration basin which is used as an aerobic
digester. When solids concentration exceeds 2 percent, the contents are pumped to another
sludge storage tank. Approximately once a month, 6,000 gallons of the concentrated biosolids are
trucked to Liberty Composting, Lost Hills, California for disposal. Wastewater is discharged via an
800-foot ocean outfall at Discharge Point No. 001 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United
States. The minimum initial dilution ratio of seawater to effluent is 115:1.
Historic flows observed at the Facility during the term of the previous Order are summarized
below.
Table F-2. Historical Flows
Maximum Daily Flow Average

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger recently constructed and successfully tested a small scale tertiary treatment unit
for the production of recycled water. The unit uses a Title 22-approved filter system and ozone
disinfection unit. Recycled water will be produced in batches and stored in two 2,500-gallon
HDPE storage tanks. The use of recycled water will be phased in over the term of this permit.
Phase 1 will use a secured wharf head hydrant located on the Discharger’s property to fill
approved water trucks or water trailers for irrigation use. Phase 2 would be to construct a
pipeline distribution network to the west