[Page 7]
2. Wastewater System Operation Summary
San Miguelito Mutual Water Company wastewater treatment facility (Wastewater
System) is a Class I wastewater system. San Miguelito Mutual Water Company must
staff a Class I chief plant operator for proper operation of the Wastewater System. The
current chief plant operator is Ryan Smith, Grade II, License Number 28414.
The Wastewater System is capable of treating 150,000 gallons per day to a Secondary
treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and
treatment capabilities shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary Hydro-dyne 6mm screen.
Treatment Headworks capacity (gpd): 1,000,000
Aerated pond system
Primary Treatment
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 150,000
Solids settling and stabilization/polishing ponds
Secondary Treatment
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 150,000
None
Tertiary Treatment
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): None
None
Disinfection
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): None
Wastewater Disposal Percolation ponds.
Method Total pond capacity (gallons): 1,980,000
Ponds are dreged every 10 years, sludge is dewatered,
Biosolids/Sludge and the biosolids are stored onsite6.
Production and Annual production of biosolids: 40-60 tons
Handling The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is Engel &
Grey in Santa Maria, California
A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3,
which were reported in San Miguelito Mutual Water

[Page 8]
3. Wastewater System Specific Requirements and Limitations
San Miguelito Mutual Water Company must operate the Wastewater System in
accordance with the General Permit and this notice of applicability. San Miguelito
Mutual Water Company must comply with the wastewater specific limitations specified
in Table 4 through Table 6.
Flow limitations are shown in Table 4.
A. Flow Limitations:
Table 4. Flow Limitations
Point of
Flow Units Limit
Compliance
Maximum Daily Gallons per day 150,000 Influent
Maximum
Average Gallons per day 150,000 Influent
Monthly[1]
Mean Monthly[2]
Gallons per day 150,000 Effluent
(to disposal area)
[1] Average monthly to be calculated by the total discharge to the headworks by volume during a
calendar month divided by the number of days in the month that the wastewater system headworks
received flow.
[2] Mean monthly to be calculated by the total discharge to the disposal area by volume during a
calendar month divided by the number of days in the month that the discharge to the disposal area
occurred.
- 3 -
[Page 9]
San Miguelito Mutual Water Company April 18, 2024
Wild Cherry Canyon Wastewater Treatment Plant
B. Effluent Limitations:
San Miguelito Mutual Water Company must com

===PLANNED CHANGES===

