[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
system to provide sewerage service to the Heritage Ranch Development, serving a
population of approximately 3,200. The treatment at the Facility consists of influent pump
stations, an aerated lagoon (Pond 1), a polishing pond (Pond 2), chlorine injection, and
two sand filters. The Facility has a design capacity of 0.4 MGD. The Discharger reports
an average influent flow over the previous permit term of 0.18 MGD.
Wastewater enters the Facility via three discrete collection system force mains without
screening or grit removal and flows into Pond 1. Pond 1 is a combination aerated lagoon
and facultative pond with an approximate capacity of 2.7 million gallons and 1.25 acres
surface area. Pond 2 is a polishing pond with an estimated capacity of 1.5 million gallons
and a surface area of 0.75 acres. Following the aerated lagoons, wastewater is
chlorinated and pumped approximately three miles to two mono-media sand filters in
series. The Discharger maintains a 20-acre feet effluent storage lagoon where flow can
be diverted prior to the sand filters.
Chlorinated effluent is discharged either directly from the effluent holding pond to the
under drain system of the sand filters (bypassing the sand filters) or directed through the
sand filters prior to discharge, depending on the quality of water in the effluent holding
pond. The effluent is dechlorinated prior to discharge within the under drain system of the
sand filters. The dechlorinated effluent is discharged to an unnamed ephemeral drainage
way, a tributary to the Nacimiento River.
A flow diagram is included as Attachment C of this Order.
In addition to the surface water discharge, the Discharger previously used
percolation/evaporation ponds to dispose of approximately 18 to 21 percent of the overall
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
Heritage Ranch Community Services District ORDER NO. R3-2011-0007
Heritage Ranch Community Services District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0048941
effluent from the Facility. During the permitting effort for Order No. R3-2006-0012, the
Central Coast Water Board determined that the shallow groundwater in the area of the
Facility’s percolation/evaporation ponds is hydrologically connected to local surface water.
Treated wastewater that does percolate travels along bedrock and flows laterally into the
surface water. Although only a minimal amount of treated wastewater actually percolates
to groundwater, that percolation is essentially a discharge to surface water that must be
regulated under the NPDES program like a direct discharge to surface water. Rat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

