[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates provides water treatment; water distribution; and
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal services to the Heritage Ranch Development,
serving an estimated population of approximately 3,792. The treatment at the Facility consists
of influent pump stations, two partially aerated lagoons (Pond 1) and (Pond 2), an effluent
holding pond (Pond 3), hypochlorite injection, and three sand filters. The Facility has a design
capacity of 0.4 MGD.
Wastewater enters the Facility via three discrete collection system force mains without
screening or grit removal and flows into Pond 1. Pond 1 is a combination aerated lagoon and
facultative pond with an approximate capacity of 2.7 million gallons and 1.25 acres of surface
area. Pond 2 is a polishing pond with an estimated capacity of 1.5 million gallons and a
surface area of 0.75 acres. Following the aerated lagoons, wastewater is chlorinated and
pumped approximately three miles through a 6-inch force main to two mono-media sand
filters in series. The Discharger maintains a 20-acre feet effluent storage lagoon where flow
can be diverted prior to the sand filters.
Effluent from Pond 3 can bypass the sand filters if the quality is acceptable. Final treated
effluent from the sand filters and/or Pond 3 is dechlorinated and discharged to an unnamed
ephemeral drainageway that is a tributary to the Nacimiento River 4.2 miles downstream of
the discharge point.
Chlorinated effluent is discharged either directly from the effluent holding pond to the under
drain system of the sand filters (bypassing the sand filters is subject to requirements in
Standard Provisons section I.G Bypass, Attachment D) or directed through the sand filters
prior to discharge, depending on the quality of water in the effluent holding pond. The effluent
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 63]
HERITAGE RANCH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2017-0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0048941
is dechlorinated prior to discharge within the under drain system of the sand filters. The
dechlorinated effluent is discharged to an unnamed ephemeral drainage way, a tributary to
the Nacimiento River.
The spray irrigation fields, located at the former percolation ponds location, are currently
being developed by the District based on the report “Spray Irrigation Field Work Plan” by
HRCSD dated October 16, 2014. Currently, all discharge is directed to the ephemeral
drainageway, Discharge Location 001A.
In addition to the surface water discharge, the Discharger previously used
percolation/evaporation ponds to dispose of approximately 18-21% of the overall effluent from
the Facility. During the permitting effort for Order No. R3-2006-0012, the Central Coast Water
Board determined that the shallow groundwater in the area of the Facility’s
percolation/evaporation ponds is hydrologically connected to local surface water. Treated
wastewater that does percolate travels along bedrock and flows laterally into the surface
water. Although only a minimal amount of treated wastewater actually percolates to
groundwater that percolation is essentially a discharge to surface water. Rather than imposing
discharge limitations on that portion of treated wastewater flow routed to the
percolation/evaporation ponds, the Central Coast Water Board followed the Discharger’s
suggestion of prohibiting the discharge. The Discharger has acknowledged the existing
possibility of a discharge to surface water via hydraulically connected groundwater. Thus,
Order No. R3-2006-0012 prohibited the discharge of water by seepage from the
percolation/evaporation ponds, and required the Discharger to install liners in the pond.
Since the adoption of Order No. R3-2006-0012, the Discharger has determined that it is not
cost effective to line the evaporation/percolation ponds, and committed to no longer using the
evaporation/percolation ponds.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Secondary treated effluent is discharged to an unnamed ephemeral drainage way at
Discharge Point No. 001A (35° 43 51” N; 120° 50’ 21” W). The drainage way is tributary to the
Nacimiento River, approximately 4.2 miles downstream from the discharge point. The point of
discharge has low permeability. The discharge flows largely intact for approximately 1.5 m

===PLANNED CHANGES===

