[Page 107]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Facility Overview
The Facility, which currently serves a population of approximately 279,000
individuals, provides regional wastewater treatment, disposal, and reclamation
services for the cities of Monterey, Pacific Grove, Del Rey Oaks, Sand City, Marina,
and Salinas; the Seaside County Sanitation District; the Castroville, and Boronda
Community Services Districts; and areas within the unincorporated portions of
Monterey County. Each member entity retains ownership and
operating/maintenance responsibility for wastewater collection and transport
systems up to the point of connection with interceptors owned and operated by the
Discharger. The Discharger implements an approved pretreatment program.
The Discharger operates the secondary-treatment Regional WWTP, which became
operational in 1990. In 1998, a tertiary-treatment facility, the Salinas Valley
Reclamation Project (SVRP), was added to produce Title 22 disinfected tertiary
recycled water. The disinfected tertiary recycled water is used for agricultural
irrigation in the northern Salinas Valley through a system known as the Castroville
Seawater Intrusion Project (CSIP), which is owned by the Monterey County Water
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 108]
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER R3-2024-0045
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES CA0048551
Resources Agency. In 2019, the Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF)
began operation as part of the Pure Water Monterey Project, which entails
advanced treatment of secondary effluent and injection of purified recycled water
into the Seaside Groundwater Basin, with subsequent withdrawal for use as a
municipal water supply. The AWPF also produces purified recycled water for
landscape irrigation by Marina Coast Water District, who also owns most of the
Pure Water Monterey recycled water conveyance system.
2.1.1 Regional WWTP Secondary Treatment
Wastewater treatment at the Regional WWTP includes screening, aerated grit
removal, primary sedimentation, secondary treatment through trickling filters,
solids contact (i.e., bio-flocculation), and secondary clarification. Undisinfected
secondary clarifier effluent that is not further processed at the tertiary facility or
AWPF is discharged to the ocean through Discharge Point 001. Biosolids are
anaerobically digested and sent to two screw presses for dewatering. Holding
lagoons and drying beds located on site are utilized to dry sludge. Dried solids are
hauled to the ReGen Monterey (formerly Monterey Regional Waste Management
District) landfill in Marina, located adjacent to the Regional WWTP, where they are
mixed with refuse and buried each day. Currently, land application of biosolids is
not allowed in Monterey County.
Although it had accepted up to 50,000 gallons of hauled saline waste7 in a single
day previously, more recently the Facility accepts negligible amounts of hauled
saline waste because the Discharger implemented enhanced

[Page 109]
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES CA0048551
discharged to the ocean at Discharge Point 001. Membrane filter backwash
produced by the AWPF is sent to the Regional WWTP headworks for treatment.
This Order addresses the discharge of AWPF RO concentrate with hauled saline
waste and secondary effluent at Discharge Point 001. The production and
subsequent groundwater injection of full advanced treated recycled water at the
AWPF is governed by separate Waste Discharge Requirements/Water Recycling
Requirements (WDRs/WRRs) Order R3-2017-0003 (and any subsequent
revisions to that

[Page 109]
2.1.3. Tertiary Treatment
Some secondary effluent undergoes tertiary treatment for irrigation of farmland in
the northern Salinas Valley. Tertiary treatment includes coagulation, flocculation,
filtration, and disinfection for design flows of up to 29.6 MGD. Tertiary treated
wastewater is held in an 80-acre-foot storage pond before it is distributed to
12,000 acres of farmland by the CSIP distribution system.
Production of disinfected tertiary recycled water at the Regional WWTP is
governed by this Order. The distribution and use of recycled water for irrigation is
regulated via separate WRRs and is supplied to CSIP from Monterey County
Water Resources Agency’s Salinas Valley Water Project (SVWP). SVWP also
includes a seasonal Salinas River Diversion Facility, screening and disinfection of
river water prior to combining with tertiary recycled water and flowing to the
recycled water pond.
2.1.4. Source Waters and Effluent Flows
In 2020, as part of the Pure Water Monterey project, new sources of urban and
agricultural runoff were directed to the Regional WWTP headworks to increase the
supply of recycled water. The new source waters are composed of Salinas
industrial wastewater (non-domestic wastewater primarily from produce
processing), stormwater flows from Salinas, and stormwater and agricultural
runoff from the Blanco Drain and the Salinas Reclamation Canal, all of which are
mixed with domestic sewage (including storm water, dry season urban runoff, and
industrial wastewater) from the member agencies at the Regional WWTP
headworks. Due to lower than anticipated municipal wastewater flows and
increased demand for recycled water, more water will be diverted from these
same sources in the future to meet recycled water influent needs.
At peak operating capacity, the AWPF will receive approximately 10.4 MGD of
secondary effluent as source water (of that, approximately 0.68 MGD will be
returned to the Regional WWTP headworks as filter backwash) and will achieve
approximately 73 percent overall recovery to produce 7.6 MGD of recycled water
for irrigation and groundwater injection. A maximum of 1.78 MGD of RO
concentrate from the AWPF will be discharged to the ocean from Discharge Point
001. The total discharge flow through Discharge Point 001 will not exceed the
permitted flows of 29.6 MGD (ADWF) and 75.6 MGD (PWWF).

===PLANNED CHANGES===

