[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Angels and Six Mile Village and
serves a population of approximately 4,178. The design daily average flow capacity of the
Facility is 1.9 million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of headworks screening, biological
treatment with three sequencing batch reactors (SBR’s) that provide
nitrification/denitrification, coagulation and flocculation, recirculating sand filtration,
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 67]
CITY OF ANGELS ORDER R5-2022-0038
WASTEWATER TREAMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0085201
and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. The headworks includes an ultrasonic flow
meter, mechanical screening, and grit removal. During periods of high influent flows,
wastewater may bypass the mechanical screen and pass through a manual bar
screen or be diverted to a 3 million gallon equalization basin and returned to the
headworks as flows subside.
Until August 2016 the Discharger was adding hydrated lime slurry (calcium
hydroxide) to the influent to increase the alkalinity and pH, to assist with the
nitrification/denitrification process, and to reduce Nocardia growth, which causes
foaming in the SBR’s and aerobic digesters. At the end of August 2016 the
Discharger stopped using calcium hydroxide and started adding a caustic solution.
The rationale behind this change was to minimize the addition of salts to the
wastewater during the treatment processes. Thus, the Discharger is experimenting
with other options as well and at the same time is working on developing an
appropriate dosage caustic solution for the Facility. The Facility has three SBR’s, a
fourth being used as an intermediate storage basin, but can be converted to an SBR
if necessary. Wastewater is distributed to each of the SBR’s equally. Each SBR
operates on a 4-hour cycle, which includes 2 hours of aeration, 1 hour of settling,
and 1 hour of decanting. The decant from the SBR’s flows to the intermediate
storage basin to equalize batch flows and provide continuous flow to the four
recirculating Dynasand filters.
The Facility uses a UV disinfection system consisting of two channels with three
banks in each channel, each with 36 lamps. Having previously used a chlorine
disinfection system, the contact chamber is now maintained for use as emergency
storage. As allowed by WDR Order 98-110, the effluent is discharged to a 66 million
gallon storage reservoir (Holman Reservoir) where it is used for spray irrigation of 61
acres of pastureland. During the irrigation season, as allowed by WDR Order 98-
110, the effluent may also be recycled on 110 acres of the Greenhorn Creek Golf

[Page 67]
Creek.
Sludge is aerobically digested in two digesters and dewatered by a belt filter press
and sludge drying beds. Filtrate from the belt filter press is drained back to the
headworks. Solids are transported offsite for disposal as needed and a minimum of
once per year.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 3 and 10, T2N, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to
Angels Creek, a water of the United States and a tributary to New Melones
Reservo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

