[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Anderson and serves a
population of approximately 10,700. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is
2.0 million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks with one mechanical bar
screen, a backup manual screen, a backup comminutor, two activated sludge aeration
basins, two secondary clarifiers, one ballast pond to equalize flow to the pressure
filters, three pressurized multi-media filtration units, one chlorine contact basin, and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 68]
CITY OF ANDERSON ORDER R5-2019-0068
ANDERSON WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077704
sulfur dioxide dechlorination. Treated effluent is discharged to the Sacramento River
through a multiport diffuser.
The influent pump station and headworks includes a bar screen which removes large
debris and rags, a back up communator, and a manual bar rake for screenings. In the
event of a total screening failure, a high level alarm will sound and flow will overflow to
the emergency basin shortly thereafter. The Facility’s total emergency storage
capacity is 5.3 million gallons (MG) except during May through September when
sludge drying reduces the available emergency storage to 3.0 MG.
Flow from the headworks is distributed evenly between the two aeration basins. From
the aeration basins, flow enters a distribution box where the waste stream is
distributed between the two clarifiers. Flow from the clarifiers enters a weir box where
the Parshall flume is located. The Parshall Flume is used to report influent flow but
does not account for RAS (return activated sludge) flow because the meter takes
measurements after the secondary clarifiers. Flow is directed from the secondary
clarifiers to the ballast pond and pressure filters. Flow can be directed from the ballast
pond to the emergency storage if needed.
After filtration, two chlorinators supply a gas solution for disinfection. The chlorine
dosing is applied at beginning of the contact chamber. The chlorine gas solution can
also be routed to the influent manhole for odor control or used for algae control in
clarifier launders. Contact chamber discharge is dosed with a sulfur dioxide gas
solution for dechlorination.
Biosolids processing consists of the following: 25 to 40 days standard retention time
(SRT) aerobic digestion, pond stabilization, and solar drying. On average, 115 dry
metric tons of biosolids are produced annually. Class B pathogen reduction is
achieved at the Facility. Dried biosolids are disposed at Anderson Landfill and/or land
applied on Fields A1 and A2 North Gate within boundaries of the Redding Municipal
Airport, property owned by the City of Redding pursuant to WDRs Order No. 5-01-226
Biosolids are applied to soil within 7 days of arrival and incorporated into the soil
within 7 days.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 11, T30N, R4W, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachme

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. The City is currently seeking grant funding for several plant improvements
including the following: replacing filter pumps and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 71]
CITY OF ANDERSON ORDER R5-2019-0068
ANDERSON WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077704
motors with higher efficiency pumps, replacement of chlorination/dechlorination
chamber with a UV disinfection system, solar panel installation as well as some
interior lighting upgrades. Additionally, a 400 kW generator has been purchased
and is expected to be installed in the first quarter of 2020. Depending on the
acceptance and approval date of grant, the upgrades are scheduled to be
completed as follows:
a. Submittal of grant application to SWRCB August 2019
b. Request bids for plan engineering se