[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Davis and serves a population of
approximately 68,000. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 7.5 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger completed secondary and tertiary Facility upgrades required by Time
Schedule Order (TSO) R5-2014-0159 on 9 June 2017 to replace the previous overland flow
treatment system. Following a startup period, the Discharger submitted a Provisional
Performance Acceptance Certificate regarding the Facility’s secondary and tertiary upgrades
on 1 September 2017. The upgraded treatment system at the Facility includes a headworks
with a mechanical bar screen, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, aeration basins
including nitrification and denitrification, secondary clarification, tertiary filtration, chlorine
disinfection with sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination with sodium bisulfite, and reaeration.
After reaeration, effluent is discharged to Willow Slough Bypass at Discharge Point 001.
During periods of high rainfall in winter months, effluent remaining in the wetlands and mixed
with storm water may also be discharged to the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain, via the
restoration wetlands, at Discharge Point 002.
The wetlands include a wastewater tract, a storm water tract, and seven numbered tracts,
each constructed with flexibility to flow to adjacent downgradient cells. The routine
wastewater treatment flow is through the wastewater tract, tract 6, and tract 7 before being
discharged at Discharge Point 002. The wetlands have the ability to recirculate the treated
flow.
Solids are dewatered using two rotary drum thickeners and then anaerobically digested in two
anaerobic digesters, which also receive primary treatment solids. Digested sludge is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 67]
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5-2018-0086
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079049
transferred to two sludge holding tanks and then dewatered using two screw presses. Dried
biosolids are hauled to an off site landfill. The Facility produces approximately 450 dry metric
tons of biosolids, annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids are regulated
by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Sections 29 and 30, T9N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge

===PLANNED CHANGES===

