[Page 2]
14. The RWD describes the construction of a new wastewater treatment system, which began T
operating in September 2011. The newly-constructed wastewater treatment system
consists of a concrete-lined oxidation ditch, two new concrete clarifiers, an indoor filter
press sludge dewatering system, and two new rapid infiltration disposal ponds (Ponds 1W E
and 2W), which were constructed on the terrace above the 100-year flood plain (see
Attachment B).
N
15. The previous headworks, aeration tank, secondary clarifier, and sludge dewatering press
have been abandoned and destroyed. The pipeline leading to Ponds 5 through 10 has
been plugged with cement so the ponds cannot be used in the future. The uncovered
T
sludge drying beds have been left intact and will be used for backup if the indoor filter
press is inoperable.
A
16. Treated wastewater from the new system is discharged to one of five rapid infiltration
disposal ponds (Ponds 1 through 3, 1W, and 2W) throughout the year. Ponds 1W and 2W
were brought online in September 2011. Based on a 20 September 2007 Geotechnical
Engineering Investigation Report, the Discharger estimates that the percolation rate for the T
ponds is 135 feet per year.
17. The Discharger proposes increased flow limits to accommodate growth through 2025 and I
provided a revised water balance capacity analysis on 30 September 2011. The water
balance was prepared based on reasonable estimates of influent flows, inflow and
infiltration (I/I), precipitation, and evaporation. The water balance was used to model
V
disposal capacity during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event. The model shows that
the new WWTF will provide the following capacities:
E
Influent Flow Measurement Capacity
Total Annual Flow 700 MG
Average Dry Weather Daily Flow 1.8 MGD
Peak Month Average Daily Flow 2.1 MGD
18. The effluent quality of the new wastewater treatment plant is expected to remain the same
quality or potentially improve in regards to biochemical oxygen demand, nitrogen, a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

