[Page 12]
24. Certain components of the current Facility were reportedly at the end of their
service lives and were not capable of handling the loading coming into the
Facility. Therefore, the Facility was struggling to comply with applicable water
quality limitations, specifically for total coliform (effluent total coliform organisms
data is shown below in Table 5). To correct this issue, TUD upgraded and
[Page 13]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 7
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
continues to upgrade the Facility. Facility upgrades commenced around
December 2021, startup initiated around December 2023, and additional
upgrades to the solids digesters are currently underway. As depicted in Table 5,
the Facility experienced temporary lapses in performance for treatment of total
coliform organisms due to the implementation of upgrades necessary for
long-term improvements.
Table 5 – Effluent Total Coliform Organisms (MPN/100 mL)
Month 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
January 13 2 4 4 4
February 30 13 22 11 34.5
March 50 13 23 22 27.9
April 13 30 8 4 13.

[Page 13]
25. As previously discussed, TUD upgraded the Facility to provide disinfected tertiary
recycled water for expanded reuse applications within the region. The Facility
upgrades included the following: a new headworks, lining Pond A (former
emergency storage basin) with a 45-mil reinforced polypropylene liner to act as
an emergency storage basin, adding a north process station to combine and
equalize influent flows from different service areas, adding two lined extended
aeration activated sludge basins (with an underdrain and leak detection system),
adding two concrete 65-foot diameter secondary clarifiers, adding a south
process station to process effluent from the extended aeration activated sludge
basins and sludge and scum from the activated sludge and secondary
clarification treatment process, adding two media disk filters to achieve tertiary
filtration, adding two chlorine contact basins, four digester thickeners, and
converting the anaerobic digesters to aerobic digestion. A Facility map is
included as Attachment B.
26. As part of the construction process for the new facilities, the Discharger cleaned
out and removed sludge from the former polishing ponds before excavating an
18-inch-thick clay layer, with a total volume of approximately 11,000 cubic yards,
from beneath the former ponds. A volatile organic compound (VOC) test of the
removed layer showed that no VOCs were present. The excavated clay was
mixed with soil and used as backfill around the project site.
[Page 14]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 8
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
27. The Facility’s upgrades converted the existing treatment process from primary
clarifiers, trickling filters, secondary clarifiers, aerated polishing ponds, and
chlorine disinfection to an extended aeration activated sludge process consisting
of two lined basins followed by secondary clarification, filtration, and chlorine
disinfection. The upgraded treatment process consists of the following facilities:
influent manhole flow measurement, fine screening, grit removal, emergency
storage, extended aeration activated sludge basins for biological treatment, one
emergency storage basin, disk filters, and chlorine disinfection.
28. A flow diagram of the upgraded Facility is included as Attachment C. With the
added nitrification and denitrification processes, the Facility is designed to reduce
the average total nitrogen concentrations in the effluent to below 10 mg/L. TUD
proposes to use the tertiary-treated disinfected recycled water at the end use
reclamation areas covered under WDRs and Master Reclamation Permit Order
R5-2002-0202 or, in the future, under the Reclamation General Order. The RWD
included proposed disinfected tertiar

[Page 14]
29. WDRs Order 94-192 included a monthly average dry weather discharge flow of
2.6 mgd. The upgraded Facility’s design influent flow rates are presented in
Table 7 below. The ESB allows the Facility to receive flows in excess of the
design criteria for the subsequent treatment.
Table 7 – Design Influent Flow Rates
Parameters Units Design Flows
Average Dry Weather Flow mgd 2.0
Maximum Daily Flow mgd 5.0
Peak Hour Wet Weather Flow mgd 10.0
30. The headworks system has a design capacity of 10 mgd. The headworks include
two parallel process trains, each consisting of six-millimeter fine screens and a
grit-removal vortex placed within the concrete channel structure. As part of the
upgrades, the screening includes both a washer compactor and grit classifier.
The fine screens are mechanically cleaned using an in-channel rake. A washer
[Page 15]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 9
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
compactor processes screenings prior to being transported to a landfill for
disposal. Accumulated grit is separated in the classifier using a recessed impeller
pump and then separated in the classifier using a screw conveyor for dewatering.
The separated grit is disposed of via landfill.
31. Two extended aeration activated sludge basins were constructed to provide
secondary treatment at the Facility. Both extended aeration activated sludge
basins are lined with a 45-mil reinforced polypropylene geotextile liner and an
under drain and leak detection system was installed under the liners. The
extended aeration sludge process utilizes a longer hydraulic retention time (HRT)
of 50 hours to provide a stable treatment process that can handle fluctuating
loads and flows with minimal operation and without pre- and post-equalization.
Aerobic and anoxic conditions within the extended aeration activated sludge
basins provide biological treatment of the raw screened influent. A portion of the
settled floc from the secondary clarifiers is returned to the beginning of the
secondary treatment process as returned activated sludge (RAS) to assist with
nitrification and denitrification within the basins. Another portion of the settled floc
is removed from the clarifiers as waste activated sludge (WAS). The newly
constructed south process station facilitates RAS and WAS pumping and scum
removal.
Table 8 – Extended Aeration Activated Sludge Basis Design
Parameters Design Criteria
Number of Basins 2
Capacity per Basin >2.5 mgd
Basin Dimensions (L x W x D) 108 ft x 168 ft x 14-16 ft
Volume Per Basin 2.2 – 2.6 million gallons
32. The emergency storage basin provides three million gallons of emergency
storage during extreme wet weather conditions and during emergency shutdown
or failure of the Facility. TUD will minimize use of the emergency storage basin
for inflow storage because the extended aeration activated sludge basins were
designed with several inches of operating freeboard to accommodate most wet
weather flows. In addition, filter backwash will discharge under normal operation
to an overflow weir box connected to the emergency storage basin and intra-
facility pump station. Filter backwash consists of secondary-treated effluent from
the clarifiers. Backwash will travel directly along the downgradient slope of the
emergency storage basin in a shallow stream to drain connected to the
intra-facility pump station. The emergency storage basin is lined with a 45-mil
reinforced polypropylene geotextile liner. Overflow at the headworks is provided
to an overflow box, which is connected to the emergency storage basin. The
extended aeration activated sludge basins also overflow to the emergency
storage basin at the high-water level, at which time the emergency storage basin
[Page 16]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 10
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
will be evacuated using submersible non-clog pumps back to the lift station for
screening/grit removal for reprocessing.
33. Two new 65-foot diameter secondary clarifiers were constructed to remove
suspended solids and discharge clarified water to the filtration and chlorine
contact disinfection units prior to disposal into Quartz Reservoir. Effluent from the
secondary clarifier will be lifted to the pre-filter channel by the filter feed pumps. If
turbidity is high either upstream or downstream of the filters, aluminum coagulant
will automatically dose the effluent for enhanced coagulation. As needed, a
coagulant or alkaline addition will be provided upstream of the clarifiers to
enhance settling, phosphorus removal, and alkalinity stabilization.
34. The upgraded Facility includes tertiary treatment consisting of four sections,
including a pre-filter channel, post-filter channel, two Veolia Hydrotech™ Disk
Filters, and two chlorine contact basins. Filter backwash discharges to an
overflow weir box connected to the emergency storage basin. The overflow weir
box will also be used to recycle out-of-compliance water by closing two
automated gates when post filtration turbidity exceeds 2 NTU (as a 24-hr
average), an instantaneous turbidity of 5 NTU, or when post chlorine contact is
less than 450 mg-min/L. Out-of-compliance water is discharged back to the
headworks until the water meets the aforementioned criteria and is back in
compliance.
35. Two chlorine contact basins provide a minimum of 90 minutes of modal contact
time at minimum water level using a sodium hypochlorite solution. The contact
basins utilize a serpentine design consisting of corrugated fiberglass baffle walls.
Table 9 – Chlorine Contact Basins Design
Parameters Design Criteria
Number of Basins 2
Capacity per Basin 2.5 mgd
Basin Dimensions (L x W x D) 48 ft x 30 ft x 8.5-10.5 ft
Volume Per Basin 92,000 gallons
36. Final disinfected effluent is discharged through a 20-inch connection to the TUD
recycled water distribution system. Recycled water is then conveyed to Quartz
Reservoir and TUD’s recycled water users. This Order covers

[Page 16]
37. Solids processing upgrades are currently under construction. The old anaerobic
digesters are being converted to include a membrane thickener and two-stage
aerobic digestion (two digesters). Installation of the new dewatering by screw
press is complete. Two existing concrete lined sludge drying beds remain onsite
[Page 17]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 11
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
for emergency use if the new screw press were to fail. Three aerobic digestion
blowers (two duty, one standby) will serve both the primary and secondary
aerobic digesters. The screw press may draw from either the primary or
secondary digester using two dewatering feed pumps. Solids dewatering,
handling, and storage occurs entirely within a new enclosed solids dewatering
building.
38. The two sludge drying beds are concrete lined and overlain with plastic tiles that
collect water from the drying process for return to the headworks for treatment.
Three sand drying beds were demolished. Only the two-remaining concrete-lined
drying beds will remain connected to the digester plumbing system and
headworks, but they are currently not in use and TUD does not anticipate using
them in the foreseeable future. One unlined sludge drying bed exists, however,
TUD has decommissioned it and stated that they no longer intend on using it.
39. According to the September 2022 RWD, sludge will meet the requirements of
40 Code of Regulations (C.F.R.) part 503 for class B pathogen reduction with a
solids retention time of 28 days. Dry biosolids cake is collected in an onsite trailer
that is fully enclosed within the solids handling buildin

===PLANNED CHANGES===

