[Page 3]
15. According to the August 2015 RWD, the WWTF upgrades will include: a submersible
pump in storage Pond 4, a flocculation tank, suspended air flotation unit, granular media
filter, storage tank for filter backwash, sludge dewatering geotextile tubes, and a second
chlorine contact tank. A site map of the WWTF is shown in Attachment A and a process
flow schematic is shown on Attachment B, both of which are attached hereto and made
part of this Order by reference.
16. The wastewater at the WWTF will enter through the headworks and proceed to the four
aeration ponds. The ponds are typically operated in series, but piping and valves are
installed to provide the ability to divert flow from each of the ponds to Diversion Box
No. 5 or to isolate and bypass a single pond. From Diversion Box No. 5, the wastewater
will be pumped to a flocculation tank followed by a suspended air flotation unit.
Coagulant is added to the wastewater upstream of the flocculation tank and then
surfactant is added in the suspended air flotation unit. The wastewater then flows by
gravity to three dual-media filters operated in parallel. Filter effluent flows by gravity to a
storage tank and then to two six-pass serpentine chlorine contact tanks operated in
series. Sodium Hypochlorite is injected at the beginning of the first chlorine contact
tank. After the chlorine contact tanks, the treated wastewater will flow to the storage
ponds.
17. The WWTF will produce an effluent anticipated to meet coliform levels of 2.2 Most
Probable Number per 100 milliliters (MPN/100 mL).
18. The agreement between the Discharger and Devine and Wood for the delivery of
treated wastewater from the WWTF to the Use Areas expired on 31 May 2015.
By letter of 4 May 2015, both the Discharger and Devine and Wood extended the
terms of their agreement through the construction of the WWTF upgrades to
produce disinfected tertiary wastewater. At this time it is unknown if after
completion of the WWTF upgrades, Devine and Wood will continue to accept
wastewater generated by the Prison. This Order includes a Provision requiring
the Discharger and/or any User of the treated wastewater to apply for coverage
under the State Water Resource Control Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW,
Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use.
19. According to the RWD, sludge produced from the WWTF will be dewatered in
geotextiles tubes installed inside roll-off bins. Water will drain through pores in the
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016-0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION -5-
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
geotextile tubes and into the roll-off bins. The rear door of the roll-off bin(s) will be
propped open slightly to allow free water to drain from the roll-off bin(s) to a concrete
slab below. Water on the concrete slab will drain to a sump and then pumped back to
the aeration ponds for treatment. Once the geotextile tube(s) are filled, the geotextile
tube(s) will be left to drain for up to a week. Then the geotextile tube(s) and solids will
be dumped as a unit in a landfill. The roll-off bins will be returned to the WWTF and new
geotextile tube(s) will be placed in the roll-off bin(s) and the process will be repeated.
20. The WWTF will have reliability and redundancy features that will include: a) multiple
aeration ponds capable of producing oxidized wastewater with one pond not in
operation; b) aerator alarms and alarms from downstream treatment processes; c)
connection from the aeration ponds directly to the chlorine contact tanks will be
removed, preventing the possibility of treated wastewater from going directly to
disinfection and bypassing filtration; and d) emergency storage of wastewater not
meeting Title 22 requirements.
Wastewater Collection System
21. The Discharger’s collection system is comprised of about five miles of gravity sewer
lines and an influent pump station outside of the secured perimeters where flow is
screened then pumped through one mile of force main to the WWTF.
22. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Resources Control Board (hereafter State Water
Board) adopted a General Sanitary Sewer System Order (State Water Resources
Control Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ, Statewide General Wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Proposed Upgrades
Proposed upgrades to the WWTF include: a submersible pump in storage Pond 4, a
flocculation tank, suspended air flotation unit, granular media filter, storage tank for filter
backwash, sludge dewatering geotextile tubes, and a second chlorine contact tank.
Construction of the WWTF upgrades is expected to begin in fall 2016.
The agreement between the Discharger and Devine and Wood for the delivery of
treated wastewater from the WWTF to the Use Areas expired on 31 May 2015. By letter
4 May 2015, both the Discharger and Devine and Wood extended the terms of their
agreement through the construction of the WWTF upgrades to produce disinfected tert