[Page 56]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of City of Colusa and serves a population
of approximately 6,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 0.7 million gallons per
day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment process includes an influent pump station, plant headworks with mechanical
screens and flow metering, a nitrifying activated sludge system (an aeration basin, air
blowers, secondary clarifier, and return sludge pump station), tertiary filtration facilities
(chemical addition, flocculation, and cloth media filtration), ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection,
and an effluent re-aeration basin and pump station. Sludge is anaerobically digested and
dewatered using a belt filter press. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 1, T15N, R2W, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B
(Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to an unnamed
tributary of Powell Slough, a water of the United States and a tributary to the Colusa
Basin Drain at a point latitude N39o, 10’, 50” N and longitude 122o

[Page 59]
6. ACL Order R5-2014-0581 was issued on 25 November 2014 for exceedance of BOD,
chlorodibromomethane, and dichlorobromomethane in the amount of $21,000.
Exceedance of chlorine-related constituent’s dichlorobromomethane and
chlorodibromomethane were addressed by purchasing new diffusers for the aeration
tank with a project cost of $13,800. The remaining amount was settled by payment.
7. ACL Order R5-2015-0516 was issued on 9 March 2015 for exceedance of BOD in the
amount of $3,000. This ACL was satisfied by payment.
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Planned upgrades will include a high speed turbo blower, second secondary clarifier, splitter
box, RAS pump, and groundwater pump station. Since the Facility upgraded to include two
sludge storage basins and an equalization basin, the equalization basin experienced a failure
in 2010. Proposed upgrades to the Facility include making improvements to the equalization
basin including adding a subsurface drainage system below the HDPE liner, replacing the
HDPE liner, and adding paved equipment access and a concrete protective layer over the
HDPE bottom in addition to adding a second secondary clarifier and Biolac basin upgrades to
enhance nitrification/denitrification.
The Facility also plans to explore recycled water use. Upgrades include a secondary
treatment basin and Biolac basin to enhance the nitrification/denitrification process and the
addition of a seasonal storage pond and an additional 20 days of emergency storage.
Potential reclamation uses include the irrigation of alfalfa crops in the surrounding area.
Water will be applied using a sprinkler system with a tail water return system to return water
to the irrigation storage pond. The Discharger has applied for funding from the State
Revolving Fund Loan and Grant Program to provide funding for these upgrades and the
addition of recycled water use.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to artic