[Page 62]
11. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Portola and serves a population of
approximately 2,500 people. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 0.5 million gallons
per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Wastewater is collected in two lift stations, one on the north side of the Middle Fork of the
Feather River, and one on the south side of the river. At the Facility headworks, influent
Parshall flumes at each pump station measure influent flow.
The treatment system at the Facility consists of two aerated ponds, five stabilization ponds, a
liquid chlorine contact chamber, dechlorination, a six-acre pond, and an adjacent wetland that
discharges to the Middle Fork of the Feather River. A Parshall flume at the outfall from the
six-acre pond to the wetland measures effluent flow.
During the period of 1 May to 31 October when discharge is prohibited, and times when flow
in the Middle Fork of the Feather River is less than 40 cubic feet per second, wastewater is
held in the ponds and allowed to percolate/evaporate. Discharge typically only occurs over a
period of one or two months and usually corresponds with higher rates of inflow/infiltration into
the sewer collection system from heavy precipitation. In the case of a dry winter, discharge
may not be required.
The Discharger spray irrigates with wastewater from the six-acre pond, stabilization pond 4,
and stabilization pond 5 at the banks of the six-acre pond and stabilization pond 5 to promote
evaporation in the summer months.
ATIACHMENT F-FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 63]
CITY OF PORTOLA ORDER R5-2018-0088
PORTOLA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077844
The Facility is also regulated by a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 404 Permit 9100587
requiring the Discharger to discharge storage water from the six-acre pond to the wetland to
maintain the wetland through the month of August.
Biosolids are collected from all ponds as needed to maintain the Facility operation and
allowed to dry on site at the sludge storage area. Dried biosolids are sampled and used on
site or hauled to a permitted landfill.
8. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Sections 2 and 3, T22, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the Middle
Fork of the Feather River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 39° 48' 7" N and
longitude 120° 29' 44" W.
3. Discharge Point 001 is located wit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has added irrigation sprinklers to spray fields identified as R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4
within the boundaries of the Facility to spray disinfected secondary effluent from the six-acre pond
to aid in reducing the amount of discharge to the Middle Fork of the Feather River. These spray
fields (R-1 to R-4) are set up but have not been used. The Discharger submitted an
antidegradation analysis with the ROWD and received confirmation from the United States Army
Corps in 2013 that the proposed spray fields are not within a wetland boundary. This Order
requires the Discharger complete a Background Groundwater Quality Study Report per Section
VI.C.2.b and BPTC Evaluation per VI.C.2.c prior to allowing spray irrigation at spray fields R-1 to
R-4.
111. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authoritie