[Page 57]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Calaveras County Water District owns and operates a publicly owned wastewater
reclamation facility. The facility is located off of Highway 4, approximately two miles east
of the town of Murphys. The facility consists of preliminary screening through a rotary
strainer, a complete mix basin, sludge-settling storage basin, two dissolved air flotation
thickeners (DAF), two continuous backwash sand filters, an ultraviolet (UV) light
disinfection system, and an effluent storage pond. The facility also includes on-site
leachfields and an emergency storage pond to serve as a long term plant reliability feature
during periods of plant repair. Tertiary treated wastewater is currently stored and reused
for golf course irrigation by Cain-Papais Trust. Due to a lack of adequate storage and
disposal capacity, the Discharger requested a surface water discharge of tertiary treated
effluent from the Facility to the Stanislaus River via the Collierville Tunnel at Discharge
Point- 001 (see table on cover page). The Collierville Tunnel is the penstock for CCWD’s
North Fork Power Plant. The penstock is an 18-ft diameter, 8.5 mile long conduit
connecting McKays Point Reservoir and the Collierville Powerhouse on the Stanislaus
River. The Stanislaus River is a water of the United States, and is within the Stanislaus
River watershed. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the Facility.
This Order only regulates surface water discharges to the Stanislaus River, which may
only occur during wet winters from 1 December through 15 May, when wastewater flows
exceed the Facility’s effluent storage and disposal capacity.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 58]
Forest Meadows Wastewater Reclamation Plant ORDER NO. R5-2008-0058
Calaveras County Water District NPDES NO. CA0085278
Calaveras County
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility’s design daily average flow capacity is 0.19 mgd. The current average dry
weather flow is 0.07 mgd with a peak wet weather flow of 0.28 mgd.
Currently, the disposal of UV light disinfected tertiary effluent is accomplished solely by
irrigation of the 42 acre Forest Meadows golf course. The Discharger anticipates the
discharge to surface water would occur only during very wet years during which effluent
flows are highest due to high infiltration and inflow, golf course irrigation needs are
lowest, winter/spring storage needs are greatest, and only when there is a threat of
overflow from the storage reservoir.
Sludge is aerobically digested and hauled to the Arnold Wastewater Treatment Facility
(also owned and operated by CCWD) for dewatering using a belt press. The dewatered
solids are then hauled to a landfill. Dewatered screenings from headworks are hauled
offsite by the local waste management company and subsequently disposed of via
landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 34, T4N, R14E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Tertiary treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point -001 to the
Stanislaus River, a water of the United States at a point Latitude N38o, 09’, 41” and
longitude W120o, 24’, 51”. The Stanislaus River is within the St

===PLANNED CHANGES===

