[Page 68]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Auburn and serves a
population of approximately 13,000. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the
Facility is 1.67 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of a headworks (bar screening and grit removal); one
aeration pond (Pond 1A) and four flow equalization ponds (Ponds 1B, 2, 3, and 4); an
oxidation ditch providing biological treatment capable of nitrification and partial
denitrification; two circular secondary clarifiers; coagulation and flocculation; filtration in
seven deep bed sand filters; and chlorine disinfection and dechlorination in a chlorine
contact chamber. The Discharger recently installed an automated lime feed system,
which adds lime at a specified rate to the wastewater after equalization and/or storage
in the pond system and prior to conveyance to the oxidation ditch, to buffer the
secondary treatment process and assist in nitrification in the oxidation ditch. The
Discharger is currently constructing several improvements to the wastewater treatment
system, as described further in section II.E of this Fact Sheet.
During extreme wet weather events when all of the equalization ponds are full, the
Facility has the ability to direct combined storm water and wastewater flows in excess of
the hydraulic capacity of the secondary process of about 3 MGD through the pond
system, combine them with flows from the secondary clarifiers, and direct them to the
tertiary filters and disinfection facilities. However, the Discharger only exercises this
ability on rare occasions during severe wet weather events where it is necessary to
avoid severe property damage, and, according to the Discharger, there is only one
known historical incidence of a bypass of the secondary treatment system and
discharge of partially treated wastewater. Prohibition III.B of this Order prohibits the
bypass or overflow of wastes to surface waters, except as allowed under the Standard
Provisions (Attachment D).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 69]
CITY OF AUBURN ORDER NO. R5-2010-0090
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077712
Waste sludge from the oxidation ditch and secondary clarifiers is sent to the return
sludge pump station (RSPS). Sludge is either recycled within the system as return
activated sludge (RAS) or wasted from the system as waste activated sludge (WAS).
RAS is pumped from the RSPS back to the oxidation ditch. WAS is pumped to a belt
filter press for dewatering. The dewatered sludge is disposed of at a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 17, T12N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Auburn
Ravine, a water of the United States, and a tributary to East Side Canal, Natomas
Cross Canal, and the Sacramento River at a point latitude 38° 53’ 13” N and
longitud

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In summer 2009, the Discharger began construction of several projects to upgrade the
Facility to comply with permit requirements. Construction of these upgrades is expected
to be concluded before March 2011. Planned improvements include:
1. Addition of a third 64-foot secondary clarifier to improve secondary process
operations and to treat peak wet weather flows;
2. Addition of a 20-horsepower brush aerator;
3. Addition of an automated aeration control system, including two dissolved oxygen
sensors, to control the operation of the oxidation ditch brush aerators to provide
more reliable nitrification and denitrification;
4. Replacement of the chlorine disinfection system with an ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection system to reduce the potential for discharges of chlorine and chlorine
disinfection byproducts; and
5. Various electrical and control upgrades to improve the standby power system and
allow automatic diversions of water into the ponds to minimize the discharge of
effluent that does not meet permit requirements.
6. Installation of a solar photo voltaic system within Pond 3, which will provide a
majority of the power needed to operate the Facility. Installation of the system will
not alter the available capacity of Pond 3 for detention of wet weather flows or the
pond’s liner system.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in the Findings in section II of this Order. The applicable plans,
policies, and regulations relevant to the discharge include the following:
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11
[Page 76]
CITY OF AUBURN ORDER NO. R5-2010-0090