[Page 0]
5. The WWTF serves up to 200 people during the summer season and approximately 10 to 20
people during the off-season. The wastewater collection system consists of gravity sewer laterals
serving approximately 70 structures ranging from small cabins to large congregation halls.
6. The wastewater treatment system consists of a gravity sewer collection system, primary settling
tank, aeration tank, activated biofilter, clarifier, secondary settling tank, sludge return, discharge
pump, chlorine injection pump, chlorine contact tank and two evaporation/percolation ponds, as
shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
7. Wastewater enters the treatment plant through a grit screen and flows into a 7,360-gallon
primary settling basin. Any secondary settlement sludge is recycled back into the primary
settling basin. Following primary settling, wastewater flows through a weir into a 7,900-gallon
aeration basin where it is pumped to the activated bio-filter tower. Effluent from the aeration
tank flows into an 11,840-gallon secondary clarifier and then through a 2-inch flow meter prior
to chlorine injection. Chlorine injection is accomplished using a solenoid metering pump.
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -2-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SCHOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
Wastewater then flows into a 1,000-gallon contact chamber prior to being discharged into one of
two evaporation/percolation ponds.
8. The two evaporation/percolation ponds are unlined and each measures approximately 50 feet by
50 feet with a total storage capacity of approximately 149,610 gallons (allowing for two feet of
freeboard).
9. The RWD indicates that the sludge generated by the treatment system is recirculated through the
system and is biologically consumed. Grits and screenings are manually removed and disposed
at a local landfill.
10. The Discharger has completed a water balance for the facility that demonstrates that there is
adequate storage and disposal capacity available for the design monthly average influent flow
rate of 277,200 gallons per month (including infiltration and inflow). The water balance was
prepared based on the design average daily flow, a pond capacity of 149,610 gallons, local
evaporation rates, and a 100-year total precipitation rate.
11. Flow rates at the facility vary greatly depending on the population using the facility. Prior to the
installation of a flow meter, flows were estimated using lift station pump hour meter readings.
Estimated flows have ranged from less than 1,440 gallons per day (gpd) to 9,360 gpd.
12. The Discharger has compiled the following effluent data from the WWTF. The results are given
below.

[Page 2]
17. Since the Stipulated Judgment and Order of Judgment was issued, the Discharger has submitted
the above required technical reports and has made the following improvements to the treatment
facility: (a) constructed an earthen berm above the east pump station to prevent surface storm
water runoff, (b) installed emergency bypass pumps at both pump stations, (c) installed new float
switches and a control panel, and two new pumps in the east pump station, (d) replaced the
discharge lines at the west and east pump stations, (e) installed an additional pump at the west
pump station, (f) modified the west pump station control panel to allow the pump station to
operate in a duplex alternating mode, (g) installed a trash and grit screen at the entrance of the
treatment plant, (h) replaced two recycle pumps, (i) installed a flow meter in the effluent line
from the treatment plant, (j) installed a chlorine chemical feed pump, (k) installed a 1,000 gallon
polyethylene chlorine contact chamber, (l) installed a new sludge recirculation pump, (m) rebuilt
the treatment plant control panel, (n) installed a security fence surrounding the treatment plant,
(o) installed plastic coving and fine mesh welded wire fabric over portions of the treatment plant
to prevent leaves and debris from falling into the system, (p) removed oaks trees near the
percolation ponds, (q) provided weekly flow measurements and monthly BOD and TSS testing,
(r) installed a new treatment plant discharge pump and control system, and (s) performed testing
and repair of the gravity sewer collection lines. In addition, the Discharger has contracted a
Grade II Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator to operate the plant, and hired an engineering
firm to prepare required reports.
Sanitary Sewer System
18. The sanitary sewer collection system consists of a series of gravity sewer laterals and two lift
stations (west pump station and east pump station). These lift stations operate on a float switch
system with predetermined high and low levels. Each lift station operates in a duplex system
with two pumps that alternate each cycle. Both lift stations are automatically controlled and have
visible and audible alarms, however, the audible alarms canno

===PLANNED CHANGES===

