[Page 60]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Redding and serves a population of
approximately 74,000. The Discharger also provides service to Shasta County (population served 100)
and the Redding Rancheria (population served 200), and three significant (non-categorical) industrial
users (SIUs). The Discharger is the owner-operator of the collection system, which is regulated under
the State Water Board General Order, Water Quality Order No. 2006-0003, effective November 2006.
An approved pretreatment program is managed by the Discharger’s Industrial Waste Division. The
design daily average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 9.4 million gallons per day (MGD);
however the permitted average dry weather flow (ADWF) remains at 8.8 MGD. The Report of Waste
Discharge described observed effluent flows during 2014 as follows: annual average daily flow rate:
6.9 MGD, maximum daily flow rate: 21.1 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is permitted to discharge up to 8.8 MGD ADWF. Liquid stream treatment
processes include influent screening, grit removal, primary clarification, aeration basins,
secondary clarification, filtration, and disinfection. Sludge is anaerobically digested and
dewatered using a centrifuge. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill or applied on city-owned
property near the Redding Municipal Airport as Class B biosolids. Class B biosolids
application to land is regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 5-01-226.
Influent Flow. A majority of the Facility’s influent raw sewage is received by two influent
pump stations, which lifts the raw sewage to the headworks facility for preliminary treatment
through a 36-inch force main. The hydraulic capacity of the main line is 60 MGD. Raw
sewage from the Redding Rancheria's Win-River Resort & Casino (Casino) is conveyed
directly to the headworks via a 6-inch diameter force main. Flow from the influent pump
stations to the headworks facility is metered and can be controlled with the Facility’s
supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system. Influent raw sewage flow that
exceeds the operational setpoint is diverted to equalization ponds (Ponds 1A and 1B) by a
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 61]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2017-0010
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
control valve. The total flow entering the main treatment train can be quantified as the
summation of the flow from the influent pump station to headworks and flow from the Casino.
Preliminary Treatment. The headworks consist of two micro screens, a Parshall flume, a
grit chamber, and weirs for flow control and distribution. The micro screens have a hydraulic
capacity of 30 MGD each. Washed screenings are compacted prior to discharge to a
dumpster. Screenings and grit from the headworks are currently sent to West Central Landfill.
Primary Treatment. Screened influent flows from the grit chamber to one of two 95-foot
diameter conventional primary clarifiers with a design capacity of 15 MGD each. Primary
overflows to the Primary Effluent Distribution Structure, where it is routed to secondary
treatment.
The Facility also has the option to utilize Chemically-Enhanced Primary Treatment (CEPT), as
necessary, during wet weather events. The CEPT uses a coagulant (ferric chloride and an
anionic emulsion polymer) to enhance flocculation and coagulation during primary
clarification. The CEPT enhancement allow for the primary clarifiers to process a combined
flow greater than 30 MGD. Ferric chloride can be added to the primary influent at the Parshall
flume upstream of the grit chamber, and polymer can be added at the primary clarifier splitter
inside the grit chamber.
Primary Solids. Settled primary solids are pumped from the bottom of the clarifiers to the
primary anaerobic digesters or alternatively, to dissolved air floatation thickeners (DAFT) and
then to the primary anaerobic digesters. The Facility has three primary anaerobic digesters.
Primary scum is captured by scum skimmers and sent to the primary scum skimmings wet
well. The contents of the wet well are periodically pumped to the digesters.
Secondary Treatment. The secondary treatment system consists of three aeration basins
and four secondary clarifiers. The original mechanical surface aeration basins at the Facility
were recently retrofitted, reconfiguring the original square, complete mix-activated sludge
basins to a serpentine flow pattern that approximates a rectangular plug-flow basin. Each
basin now utilizes a diffused air system and has been configured as the Modified Ludzack
Ettinger (MLE) activated sludge process. The MLE process consists of an anoxic zone
followed by an aerobic zone, with internal mixed liquor recycle to recycle aerobic effluent back
to the anoxic zone for denitrification of ammonia oxidized to nitrate in the aerobic zone. As
compared to the previous complete mixed basins, the new activated sludge process provides
the benefits of removing nitrogen, recovering oxygen, conserving alkalinity, and conditioning
the biomass for good sludge settleability.
The secondary clarifiers are of the center-feed, rim-collection type. Clarified effluent is
collected in launders attached to the inside perimeter of the clarifier. Clarifiers 1, 2, and 3 are
80-foot diameter units, while Clarifier 4 is a 120-foot diameter unit. The secondary clarifiers
have a total hydraulic capacity of 60 MGD. Activated sludge accumulates and thickens over
the clarifier floor, where it is collected and pumped to the Return Activated Sludge/Mixed
Liquor Return (RAS/MLR) distribution box for mixing and distribution to the aeration basins.
Secondary Solids. Scum and Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) are pumped to the DAFT
mixing facility prior to conveyance to the primary anaerobic digesters.
Filtration. Secondary effluent flows from the secondary clarifiers to the secondary effluent
diversion box where it is directed to either a cloth-media disk filter system or a conventional
deep-bed, dual media filter system. Currently all flow is being filtered using the cloth media
filtration system, with the conventional media filters held in standby for high flows or for
backup of the cloth filters, as necessary. The cloth-media filtration system and the
conventional media filters have an hydraulic capacity of 24 MGD and 16 MGD, respectively,
with a combined filter capacity of approximately 40 MGD. Backwash from the filters is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 62]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2017-0010
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
discharged to backwash equalization basins that ultimately flow back to the influent pump
station.
Disinfection: Chlorination and Dechlorination. Chlorine gas is stored in 1-ton containers
and is used to make a concentrated chlorine/water solution to disinfect the filtered secondary
effluent. Disinfection contact time is provided in the chlorine contact chamber and in two
3000-foot parallel pipelines that carry effluent south to the effluent outfall building. A sulfur
dioxide/water solution is injected into the secondary effluent flow stream for dechlorination
near the outfall building just after the two parallel pipelines join into a single pipeline.
Outfall. The outfall facilities include the outfall weir structure, dry and wet-weather diffuser
pipes, emergency effluent diversion and flow measurement and sampling systems. The weir
controls flow from the 66-inch filtered effluent pipeline, maintaining full pipe flow to provide
additional chlorine contact time past the chlorine contact chamber.
Effluent flow past the weir splits between the dry-weather and wet-weather diffuser pipes.
The dry-weather diffuser pipe is designed for flow up to 30 MGD. Flow above 30 MGD is
diverted into the second outfall diffuser. The weir structure is equipped with two stop log
weirs, one serving each outfall. The weir elevations can be split adjusted by installing or
removing stop logs to achieve the desired flow split. The dry-weather diffuser is the primary
diffuser and is used continuously throughout the year. The wet weather diffuser’s hydraulic
capacity is 30 MGD and accommodates Facility effluent flows above 30 MGD and up to
60 MGD.
The Facility operates an emergency bypass system that discharges effluent to Pond 6 in an
event of excessive chlorine residual or low pH at the outfall building. The plant alarm is
initiated during such an event signaling immediate operator attention.
Anaerobic Digestion. The Facility has three primary digesters and one secondary digester,
each with a 65-foot diameter and a working volume of 662,000 gallons. The primary
digesters can process solids directly from the primary and secondary clarifiers.
Biodegradation of organic materials and production of methane gas and carbon dioxide take
place in the primary digesters, which are continually mixed and heated within the mesophilic
temperature range (approximately 95°F). Digested solids from the primary digesters
overflows by gravity to the secondary digester or can be pumped. Fitted with a floating
gasholder cover, the secondary digester stores primary digested sludge and biogas produced
in the primary digesters. Biogas is used to fuel hot water boilers for digester heating with
natural gas as a secondary fuel. Excess biogas is combusted at a single conventional flare
located east of the CEPT facility. Digested sludge can be withdrawn from the bottom of the
secondary digester and transferred to the facultative sludge ponds or to solids dewatering.
The Facility also has two DAFT units which may be utilized to thicken primary solids and
WAS.
Sludge Dewatering and Disposal. After digestion sludge is dewatered by one of the
Facility’s two centrifuges. Centrate from the dewatering process is currently routed to Pond
5A and 5B for equalization and ultimately metered back to the Facility headworks for
treatment. Currently centrate is discharged to Pond 5A and 5B approximately 4 days per
week at a rate of 100 gallons per minute (6-7 hours/day).
Pond System. The Facility has 13 ponds used for influent flow equalization, emergency
storage, and facultative treatment and/or centrifuge centrate management, and solids drying
(if necessary). Ponds 1A and 1B are concrete-lined basins capable of receiving raw sewage,
primary effluent and secondary effluent. A standpipe located in Pond 1A provides emergency
secondary effluent overflow if head level in the secondary effluent distribution box exceeds
total filtration capacity. Emergency bypass of primary effluent (from primary effluent
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 63]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2017-0010
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
distribution box) and secondary effluent (from secondary effluent collection structure and
secondary effluent distribution box) can discharge to Pond 1A. Additionally, raw sewage from
the influent pump station can discharge to Ponds 1B, 2, 3A, 3B, 4, 5A, 5B, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10
through a series of manually operated valves. Ponds 1A and 1B are concrete-lined. Ponds 3A
and 3B have clay-lined bottoms with shotcrete lined banks. Ponds 5A and 5B are constructed
with a hydraulic asphalt-lined bottom and high density polyethylene-lined banks and are being
used for centrifuge centrate flow management. Flow from the ponds can return to the influent
pump station and is measured at a meter vault located between Pond 1A and the filtration
system. All ponds have electronic level indicators and transmit level to the Facility’s SCADA
system. Historically, Ponds 3A, 3B, 5A, and 5B were used as the Facility’s facultative sludge
lagoons (FSLs); however recent upgrades to the Facility’s solids treatment and handling
processes has negated the need of the FSLs for solids stabilization. Currently, the Discharger
is utilizing Pond 5A and 5B as centrifuge centrate equalization and Pond 3A and 3B for
emergency storage.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility (Assessor’s Parcel No. 050-030-12) is located in Section 31, T31N, R4W,
MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the
Sacramento River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 40° 29’ 56.5” N and
longitude 122°

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility has undergone major upgrades during the past ten years, including
improvements to the preliminary, primary, secondary, filtration, disinfection, and solids
treatment processes. The multi-year rehabilitation and expansion project has increased
treatment capacity (design dry weather flow from 8.8 MGD to 9.4 MGD) and overall reliability
of the Facility. The Discharger has requested that permitted ADWF remain at 8.8 MGD until
appropriate environmental review is conducted to justify a permitted increase in effluent
discharge.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIO