[Page 61]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Angels and serves a population
of approximately 3,836. The Facility has a design average dry weather flow of 0.6 MGD
and a design peak wet weather flow of 1.9 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of headworks screening, biological
treatment with three sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) that provide
nitrification/denitrification, coagulation and flocculation, recirculating sand filtration, and
ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. The headworks includes an ultrasonic flow meter,
mechanical screening, and grit removal. During periods of high influent flows,
wastewater may bypass the mechanical screen and pass through a manual bar screen
or be diverted to a 3 million gallon equalization basin and returned to the headworks as
flows subside. The Discharger adds a hydrated lime slurry (calcium hydroxide) to the
influent to increase the alkalinity and pH, to assist with the nitrification/denitrification
process and to reduce Nocardia growth, which causes foaming in the SBRs and aerobic
digesters. The Facility has three SBRs, a fourth being used as an intermediate storage
basin, but can be converted to an SBR if necessary. Wastewater is distributed to each
of the SBRs equally. Each SBR operates on a 4-hour cycle which includes 2 hours of
aeration, 1 hour of settling, and 1 hour of decanting. The decant from the SBRs flows to
the intermediate storage basin to equalize batch flows and provide continuous flow to
the four recirculating Dynasand filters.
The Facility uses a UV disinfection system consisting of two channels with three banks
in each channel, each with 36 lamps. Having previously used a chlorine disinfection
system, the contact chamber is maintained for use as emergency storage. Effluent is
discharged to a 66 million gallon storage reservoir where it is used for spray irrigation of
61 acres of pastureland. During the irrigation season, effluent may also be reclaimed on
Attachment F –Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 62]
CITY OF ANGELS ORDER R5-2012-0088
CITY OF ANGELS WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0085201
110 acres on the Greenhorn Creek Golf Course. When wastewater flows exceed the
land disposal and storage capacity of the Facility, effluent may be discharged
seasonally to Angels Creek.
Sludge is aerobically digested in two digesters and dewatered by a belt filter press and
sludge drying beds. Filtrate from the belt filter press is drained back to the headworks.
Solids are transported offsite for disposal once per year.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 3 and 10, T2N, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Tertiary treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to
Angels Creek, a water of the United States and a tributary to New Melones
Reservoir and, further, S

===PLANNED CHANGES===

