[Page 0]
7. The wastewater treatment system is sized for a flow rate of 55,000 gpd. Wastewater treatment
will be performed using activated sludge in a batch treatment process. Wastewater will be
partially denitrified, disinfected, and discharged to shallow emitters. A treatment schematic is
presented on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
8. After preliminary screening, wastewater may be diverted to emergency storage, consisting of two
buried tanks that provide 60,000 gallons of storage. Normally, wastewater will flow from the
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0078 2
LINNE ESTATES, LLC
LINNE ESTATES WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
screening to an Influent Equalization System (IES), which consists of a 24,000 gallon buried tank.
The IES will be aerated with diffused air to maintain aerobic conditions and prevent nuisance odor
conditions.
9. Wastewater will then flow to an aeration tank, which is a 40,000 gallon buried tank that is
equipped with air diffusers to provide aerobic treatment. The aeration tank will be equipped with
a continuous dissolved oxygen control system. Wastewater is pumped from the aeration tank to
either the batch clarifier or the anoxic denitrification system.
10. The anoxic denitrification system is a 20,000 gallon buried tank which will receive nitrified
activated sludge mixed liquor to reduce dissolved oxygen concentrations for denitrification. The
tank will be equipped with a mixing system and continuous dissolved oxygen concentration
metering.
11. The batch clarifier is a 16,000 gallon buried tank. The clarifier will provide sedimentation and
additional denitrification. Clarified effluent will be transferred to the filtration system. Settled
sludge will either be pumped to the aeration tank or the aerobic sludge digesters.
12. Treated wastewater will be filtered through a multi-media pressure filtration system. The filters
contain silica sand, garnet, and anthracite coal. Filter backwash water will be diverted back into
the equalization tank for retreatment.
13. After filtration, the wastewater will enter the ozone contact chamber, which is a 5,000 gallon
buried tank. Ozone will be generated on-site as needed. The disinfection will be operated in a
batch mode. A liquid chlorine backup system will also be available.
14. Filtered and disinfected wastewater will be stored in a 9,000 gallon buried effluent-pumping tank
prior to discharge to the dispersal area.
15. Waste activated sludge will be discharged to a 16,000 gallon buried aerobic digestion tank and
periodically pumped for off-site disposal.
16. Treated wastewater will be discharged to a 1.7 acre dispersal area through a computer controlled
emitter system. Emitters will be grouped into six zones. Moisture sensors located in the dispersal
area will allow monitoring of soil moisture and will change the application of wastewater to
prevent over application of wastewater and saturate

[Page 4]
30. Stormwater that falls on the site is collected and discharged to a stormwater storage pond.
31. The site lies within the San Joaquin Delta Hydrologic Unit, as depicted on interagency hydrologic
maps prepared by the Department of Water Resources in August 1986.
32. According to the Soil Conservation Service’s Soil Survey of San Joaquin County, surface soil at
the wastewater treatment facility consists of Stomar clay loam alluvium derived from sedimentary
rocks.
33. The topography of the site and surrounding area is fairly level. Elevation of the site is
approximately 110 feet above mean sea level.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
34. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth
Edition, (hereafter Basin Plan) designates ben

===PLANNED CHANGES===

