[Page 78]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service to a small development northwest of the City of
Rio Vista and serves a population of approximately 6,000. The design average dry
weather flow capacity of the Facility is 1.0 MGD.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 4
[Page 79]
CITY OF RIO VISTA ORDER R5-2021-0004
NORTHWEST WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0083771
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of fine screening followed by activated
sludge treatment with anoxic and aerobic basins, followed by membrane biological
reactors (MBR’s), which separate the liquid from the solids. The liquid effluent from
the MBR’s is disinfected using ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. A 2.0-million-gallon
emergency storage basin lined with high density polyethylene liner is also used to
accommodate flows in excess of the peak hydraulic capacity of 3.0 MGD. However,
due to the slowdown in population growth, the treatment plant receives approximately
25 percent of the design average dry weather flow (e.g., 0.25 MGD) and the
emergency storage basin is used for storage of treated and untreated wastewater
when there are operation failures at the headworks or if effluent fails to meet
standards. When the treatment system is brought back up from an operational or
treatment failure, the wastewater in the emergency storage basin is routed back
through the treatment system. Treated effluent is pumped through approximately 2
miles of pipeline and discharged through a multi-port outfall diffuser approximately
200 feet offshore into the Sacramento River on a year-round basis.
Sludge is dewatered using belt filter press technology followed by drying in solar
greenhouses. Once dried, the material meets “Exceptional Class A” biosolids criteria
and is stockpiled in one of the solar greenhouses prior to disposal at a regulated
Class III landfill or beneficial land application. The facility produces approximately
127 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually, on average. Transportation and
disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 13, T4N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal

===PLANNED CHANGES===

