[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Modesto, the community of
Empire, and a portion of the City of Ceres, serving a population of approximately 224,000.
In addition to domestic wastewater, the Discharger operates a pretreatment program that
has issued seventeen liquid waste hauler permits, two groundwater clean-up permits, and
fifty industrial wastewater permits. The Discharger’s collection system consist of
approximately 525 miles of sewer lines, which collect and convey an average dry weather
flow of 26.6 million gallons per day to the Facility.
The collection system is regulated under State Water Board Order 2006-003.
However, limited portions of the wastewater collection system are outside of the
Discharger’s service area, and therefore the Discharger established requirements for
these collection system users to assure protection of the entire collection system.
The Facility consists of separate primary and secondary treatment facilities. The primary
treatment facility, located at 1221 Sutter Avenue, provides primary treatment of the raw
wastewater, and then transfers the treated effluent to the secondary treatment facility,
located approximately 6.5 miles to the southwest at 7007 Jennings Road.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
CITY OF MODESTO ORDER NO. R5-2008-0059-01
WATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079103
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The primary treatment plant influent pump station and headworks structures provide
pumping, screening, grit removal, and flow measurement of the influent. The primary
treatment facility has a design treatment capacity of 62.5 mgd, and a design hydraulic
capacity of 80 mgd. Wastewater is pumped into the headworks by constant-speed
screw pumps. From the pumps, wastewater passes through four climber-type
mechanical bar screens. Screenings are dropped to a continuous conveyor for transfer
to a compactor for additional dewatering. Wastewater flow from the screens passes to
one of three grit chambers, where the separated grit slurry is pumped to cyclone
separators for additional dewatering. Once through the grit chambers, wastewater flow
is measured by parshall flumes and then distributed to one of two primary clarifiers.
Sludge from the clarifiers is transferred to thickeners, then processed and stabilized
through digesters. Digested sludge is transferred to holding tanks where it is
periodically drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant flows routed to the septage
disposal station for blending with influent wastewater. The Discharger applies the
stabilized sludge as a soil amendment on the City’s 2,526 agricultural fields, which is
regulated by separate waste discharge requirements, Order No. 94-030.
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the secondary treatment facility, where
approximately half of the primary effluent receives treatment with fixed film reactors
(FFR’s) and then is combined with primary effluent in an aerated recirculation channel.
Flow in the recirculation channel is then distributed to three parallel facultative ponds for
further treatment, and then transferred to one of two storage ponds until it can be
discharged to the SJR (1 Oct – 31 May, with 20:1 flow ratio, receiving water: effluent) or
applied to the City’s 2,526 acre ranch at agronomic rates. Prior to discharge to the SJR,
the secondary-level treated effluent is disinfected with chlorine in a contact basin, then
dechlorinated with sulfur dioxide. The secondary treatment facility has a peak hydraulic
treatment capacity of 70 mgd. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the Facility.
The Discharger is proposing to construct Phase 1A and Phase 1B of a new advanced
treatment facility capable of discharging up to 4.8 mgd of tertiary (or equivalent) treated
wastewater year-round from the Discharge Point 001.
Since 1999, the City has been separating cannery wastes fr

[Page 78]
E. Planned Changes
The Discharger has evaluated an advanced treatment process that would
accommodate a year-round surface water discharge. The proposed advanced
treatment process is a biological nutrient removal (BNR) process followed by filtration
and ultra violet (UV) light disinfection. The Discharger is proposing construction of the
BNR/tertiary-level treatment facilities in four phases. Phase 1A would be a year-round
advanced treatment 2.3 mgd discharge expansion to meet the current gap in dry water
year disposal capacity and to meet the needs of growth through 2011. Phase 1B would
be a 2.5 mgd expansion to satisfy projected growth needs from 2011 to 2016. The 2.3
mgd Phase 1

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has evaluated an advanced treatment process that would
accommodate a year-round surface water discharge. The proposed advanced
treatment process is a biological nutrient removal (BNR) process followed by filtration
and ultra violet (UV) light disinfection. The Discharger is proposing construction of the
BNR/tertiary-level treatment facilities in four phases. Phase 1A would be a year-round
advanced treatment 2.3 mgd discharge expansion to meet the current gap in dry water
year disposal capacity and to meet the needs of growth through 2011. Phase 1B would
be a 2.5 mgd expansion to satisfy projected growth needs from 2011 to 2016. The 2.3
mgd Phase 1