[Page 0]
4. WDRs Order 94-106, adopted by the Central Valley Water Board on 22 April 1994,
prescribes requirements for the WWTF. Order 94-106 allows an average dry weather
flow of up to 0.146 million gallons per day (mgd) and a daily maximum discharge of
0.200 million gallons to either evaporation/percolation ponds or leach trenches. The
Discharger modified its treated effluent distribution system to irrigate lawn areas used
for recreation activities at the camps. The Discharger also improved the WWTF by
installing an influent equalization tank and additional blowers and fine bubble diffuser
racks in the sequencing batch reactors (SBRs). These improvements increased the
design flow rate of the WWTF from 0.200 mgd to 0.275 mgd. Due to these changes,
Order 94-106 will be rescinded and replaced with this Order.
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0125 -2-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
Existing Facility and Discharge
5. The WWTF consists of a 110,000-gallon flow equalization tank, head works, bar
screen, two SBR’s, an aerobic digester, a vacuum-assisted sludge drying floor, a
decant balance tank for decanted clear liquor, a tertiary disk filter and a chlorine
contact basin. The WWTF is also equipped with a 200,000-gallon emergency storage
tank. Solids removed by the bar screen are bagged and placed in the municipal waste
dumpster at the site. Disinfection is achieved by adding sodium hypochlorite (12.5%)
to the treated wastewater in the chlorine contact basin. The contact basin is a 48-inch
diameter reinforced concrete pipe approximately 36 feet long and has insufficient
capacity to achieve a 90 minute modal time. The contact basin is beneath the floor
slab of the WWTF, upstream of the effluent pumps, and cannot be reasonably
extended to gain additional volume for chlorine contact time. The required volume to
achieve a 90 minute modal time is provided by the effluent force main, which is
approximately 1,680 linear feet of 6-inch diameter pipe and an existing 21,000 gallon
effluent storage tank near the percolation ponds.
6. The WWTF receives untreated sewage from various dormitories, single family
residences, offices, laundry facilities, and a cafeteria. The camp hosts approximately
25,000 people annually during the months of June, July, and August. The influent
wastewater analytical results for 2012, required by Monitoring and Reporting Program
(MRP) No. 94-106 are summarized below.
Number of Mean
Parameter Uni

[Page 2]
8. Treated effluent is discharged to percolation/evaporation ponds in summer through
early fall and to leach trenches in late fall through spring. Historically there were
twelve evaporation/percolation ponds connected in series by gravity pipelines that are
at least 2 feet below the top of the pond sidewalls. Ponds 5 and 6 have been
combined and ponds 8 and 9 have been combined. Surface aerators are in ponds 1
and combined pond 5/6. Total capacity of the pond system is 25.7 acre feet (8.374
million gallons). There are a total of 69 leach trenches, each 100 feet long. The
leach trenches are 10 feet deep and 2 feet wide. A 4-inch perforated PVC pipe is
buried 2 feet below ground surface with 1.5-inch gravel below and native backfill
above the pipe.
9. Treated effluent from the evaporation/percolation ponds is used to sprinkler-irrigate a
3.2-acre reclamation area (also referred to as sprayfield) of grass (50-50 mix of Blue
Grass and Perennial Rye Grass) and native vegetation. Approximately two acres of
the grass portion of the sprayfield is used for softball or other similar recreational
activities and a heliport for the U.S. Forest Service and Life Flight helicopters. The
remainder of the sprayfield consists of native vegetation on cut or fill slopes and
natural terrain. The sprayfield overlays approximately 40 leach trenches. Discharge
to this area alternates between the leach trenches in the late fall through spring and to
the sprayfield in summer through early fall when the ponds are in use. Discharge via
the leach trenches and sprayfield do not occur simultaneously.
10. The Discharger continuously monitors the chlorine dose used for disinfection and
collects a sample of effluent (following disinfection) on a daily basis and analyzes the
sample for residual chlorine levels.
11. Sludge from the SBR’s is pumped into an aerobic digester where a polymer is added
to aid in flocculation. Clear liquid is decanted from the digester and returned to the
SBR’s. The remaining sludge in the digester is pumped to a vacuum-assisted drying
floor within the main WWTF building. Following drying, the sludge is transported via
front loader and truck to the sludge storage area where it is spread on bare ground for
further drying by the sun. The Discharger turns the spread sludge every few days
until it is dry enough to crumble instead of smear. Following this procedure, the
sludge is stockpiled at the same location. A composite sample of dried sludge is
analyzed twice per year for classification. The Discharger indicates dried sludge from
2010 and 2011 has been classified as Class A biosolids. Dried sludge is used as a
soil amendment at the site or hauled off-site

[Page 3]
15. The discharge infrastructure of the WWTF will be modified so that treated effluent can
be discharged directly to the sprayfield when recycled water is needed and to
preclude discharge of treated effluent from the evaporation/percolation ponds to the
sprayfield.
Wastewater Collection System
16. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes,
manholes, and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the
treatment facility. A “sanitary sewer overflow” (SSO) is defined as a discharge to
ground or surface water from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the
treatment facility. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells,
regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines, etc.) may be

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
13. The Discharger is exploring the logistics of accepting wastewater flows from the
nearby Hume Subdivision, which currently discharges domestic waste to individual
septic systems. In order to accommodate the camp’s peak seasonal monthly
discharge and potential wastewater flows from the subdivision, the Discharger
submitted the RWD requesting an increase of the permitted flow rate to 0.275 mgd.
14. Peak flows at the camp and Hume Subdivision are during June, July, and August.
The average daily flows during this period are 110,000 gallons per day (gpd) for the
camps