[Page 100]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for commercial and residential uses for the
community of Manteca, portions of the City of Lathrop, and the unincorporated
communities of Oakwood Shores and Raymus Village and serves a population of
approximately 110,050. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 9.87
MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow capacity of 9.87 MGD and its
treatment process is divided into two parallel treatment systems, the north and south
treatment systems. Primary treatment is identical in both systems and consists of
mechanical screening, aerated grit removal, and primary sedimentation. The
secondary treatment processes for both treatment systems are the same, consisting
of conventional activated sludge, including nitrification-denitrification, followed by
secondary sedimentation.
Undisinfected secondary effluent is either stored for agricultural use in the
Secondary Effluent Storage Pond (SESP) or blended with treated food processing
wastewater from Eckert Cold Storage (a processor of vegetables such as cabbage)
stored in the Food Processing Storage Pond (FPSP) and applied directly to
agricultural fields. The Discharger may also send secondary effluent to the
Secondary Effluent Equalization Pond (SEEP) prior to tertiary treatment and
discharge to the San Joaquin River during treatment works maintenance or to
equalize flows during wet weather. The SESP is unlined and may also be used for
emergency storage outside of the irrigation season for emergency storage of
secondary effluent and flows can be routed to the headworks for retreatment. The
SEEP is lined and covered with scrim fabric-reinforced polypropylene synthetic
polymer sheeting at a nominal 45 mils thickness. An underdrain system directs
groundwater away from the pond liner and consists of a perforated plastic pipe,
underdrains, permeable material, geotextile filter fabric, and geocomposite drain
layer. Cover drain boxes are also installed to allow rainwater collecting on top of the
cover to drain when the pond is empty. The FPSP has the same liner as the SEEP
but is uncovered. Pond locations are shown in Attachment B and flows are shown in
Attachment C. Pond information is listed in Table F-2 below:
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 101]
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER R5-2026-0034
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081558
Table F-2. Pond Information
Pond Name Size Volume
(acres) (MG)
Secondary Effluent 9 15
Storage Pond
Food Processing Pond 2.5 5.15
Secondary Effluent 3.2 5.9
Equalization Pond
The agricultural fields are used to grow crops for dairy feed totaling approximately
167 acres surrounding the Facility. The land application area is approximately 127
acres and consists of 10 fields located on land owned by the Discharger (Fields 2
through 11 – Field 10 was sold in mid-2018).
Tailwater from the irrigation fields percolates into the soil or is recirculated into the
irrigation system. Tailwater from Fields 2, 4, and a small portion of 5, is collected in a
sump and pumped back to the irrigation supply system. Most of Field 5 is currently
used as a storm water drainage basin. Tailwater from Field 3 drains to a sump and
pumped into the pond for irrigation. Tailwater from Fields 6 and 9E percolates into
the soil. Tailwater from Field 9W drains to adjacent unused land that does not
contain an outlet. The Discharger monitors the groundwater under the agricultural
fields at five downgradient wells (MW-3, MW-4, MW-5, MW-9W, and MW-11) and
monitors the background groundwater in one upgradient well (MW-AW). Monitoring
well information for the newer wells is provided in Table F-3 below:
Table F-3. Monitoring Well Information
Monitoring Construction Well Depth Screen Interval Depth to
Well Date (Feet) (Feet) Groundwater
(Feet)
MW-4 January 2019 23 8-23 10.9-14
MW-11 March 2007 25 10-25 11-18
MW-AW August 2005 25 10-25 17.3-23.1
Secondary effluent in excess of crop demands undergoes tertiary treatment through
rapid mixing, flocculation, cloth media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The
disinfected tertiary recycled water is pumped from the Facility to its Truck Fill Station,
located at the entrance of the Facility. The Truck Fill Station provides access for
construction vehicles to receive recycled water for construction. The Discharger also
has one recycled water user, the Great Wolf Lodge where water is sent for
landscape irrigation. Remaining disinfected tertiary level treated effluent is
discharged year-round to the San Joaquin River through a 36-inch diameter pipe.
Sludge removed from primary sedimentation is pumped directly to anaerobic
digesters while sludge from secondary sedimentation is thickened by dissolved air
flotation and then pumped to anaerobic digesters. After digestion, the treated sludge
is dewatered by centrifuge. Dried biosolids, grit, and screenings are hauled offsite for
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 102]
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER R5-2026-0034
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081558
land application, composting, or sent to a landfill for disposal by Synagro.
The City has an approved EPA pretreatment program. The municipal wastewater
collection system consists of two main lines servicing the City of Manteca that
includes 249 miles of sewer mains with 18 pump stations, and another line servicing
the City of Lathrop that is connected by 27 miles of sewer mains. The collection
systems are regulated under State Water Resources Control Board (State Water
Board) Order WQ 2022-0103-DWQ. A separate industrial line accepts food
processing wastewater seasonally fro

===PLANNED CHANGES===

