[Page 65]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Vacaville and community of Elmira,
serving a population of approximately 97,000. The design average dry weather flow capacity of
the Facility is 15 million gallons per day (mgd).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The wastewater treatment plant consists of a single South Plant treatment train, with the
recent removal of the older North Plant treatment train in 2012. The South (Plant),
commissioned in November 2004, consists of headworks, primary sedimentation basins,
aeration basins, secondary circular clarifiers, a chlorination contact chamber and
dechlorination facilities. The Plant nitrifies and denitrifies. Sludge is anaerobically digested,
dewatered using a belt filter press, then air-dried to produce biosolids, which are subsequently
hauled to the Recology Landfill. The Plant is rated for an average dry weather flow capacity of
15 mgd and a peak wet weather flow capacity of 55 mgd. The Discharger is constructing the
Easterly Wastewater Treatment Plant Filtration Project in order to comply with California Code
of Regulations, Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection requirements by 1 May 2015.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 19, T6N, R1E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part
of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Old Alamo
Creek, at a point Latitude 38o, 20’, 48” N and longitude 121o, 54’, 06”W. Old Alamo Creek is
a water of the United States, and tributary

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has completed construction of denitrification facilities which included
modification to existing aeration basins and adding aeration basins. Construction has begun
on the filtration facilities and is expected to be complete by the end of 2014.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 68]
CITY OF VACAVILLE ORDER R5-2014-0072
EASTERLY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077691
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this s