[Page 58]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of San Andreas and serves a population
of approximately 2200, and has no industrial users. The design daily average flow capacity of the
Facility is 0.32 million gallons per day (MGD) and the peak flow is 1.9 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system consists of a grit removal chamber, mechanical bar screen (for solids
removal), pH control chemical feed, primary clarification, trickling filtration, intermediate
secondary clarification, extended aeration activated sludge processing, final clarification, cloth
media filtration, chlorination, dechlorination, filter press, sludge drying beds, two stormwater
storage ponds, and a six million gallon storage reservoir (Pond D). As part of a compliance
project to meet effluent limits for ammonia, copper, zinc, and cyanide, the Discharger
completed upgrades to the Facility in December 2010 to include a nitrifying activated sludge
process and tertiary filtration. A new sludge drying pad was installed in 2013 in response to
complaints of excessive odor. Extended aeration activated sludge was added to the existing
trickling filter plant to reduce ammonia concentrations (i.e., achieve nitrification), and cloth
media filtration (including coagulation and flocculation) was added to provide equivalent
tertiary treatment. The treatment system was designed to handle a peak flow of 1.9 MGD, in
order to reduce the use of the High Flow Treatment System (HFTS), which handles flows in
excess 1.9 MGD. As is typical for foothill communities, handling peak flows due to I&I is an
issue. During these peak influent flows, all flows up to 1.9 MGD receive full tertiary treatment
and the flows exceeding 1.9 MGD are diverted to the HFTS after screening, chlorinated, and
sent directly to Pond D. The contents of Pond D can then be returned to the beginning of the
system to be retreated and properly discharged when conditions permit.
Disposal of treated wastewater is accomplished solely by land application from 1 May through
31 October of each year. Treated wastewater leaving the treatment system is held in the
unlined effluent storage pond, Pond D, prior to the final discharge to the dedicated land
disposal area (DLDA). The DLDA vegetation primarily consists of native trees, brush, and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 59]
SAN ANDREAS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R5-2014-0104
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079464
grasses. Historically the Discharger’s land application practices consisted of applying treated
wastewater to a 32 acre network of disposal trenches dug into the hillsides of the property
and following the existing topography, supplemente

[Page 59]
consists of a 48’
cross stream diffuser directly upstream of a concrete ford.
The Discharger treats primary sludge by means of digestion in the heated unmixed anaerobic
digester, it is then dewatering using the belt filter press. Secondary clarification produces
waste activated sludge (WAS), which is sent directly to the belt filter press without further
treatment. Dewatered sludge is transported to the asphalt lined drying pad where, in summer
months, the biosolids are spread out to air dry for a minimum of 90 days in order to meet
Class B pathogen reduction requirements in 40 CFR 503. The Discharger currently has a
contract with Synagro, a sustainable facilities management and environmental services
provider, for biosolids removal. Synagro typically removes biosolids from the Facility once per
year, biosolids are applied to land by Synagro within six hours of removal in order to achieve
adequate vector attraction reduction. Runoff from the biosolids drying bed is sent to the
process feed station to be introduced into the treatment train for treatment.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 60]
SAN ANDREAS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R5-2014-0104
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079464
Storm water from the paved portion of the Facility is collected in Ponds B and C, where it
either evaporates or is conveyed to Pond D and discharged to land in the DLDA. Storm water
from the non-paved portion of the Facility does not get collected but is conveyed to San
Andreas Creek through a system of storm water collection ditches. Ponds B and C also
accept tertiary or secondary wastewater during periods of operational maintenance (e.g.,
chlorine contact basin maintenance). All wastewater is chlorinated prior to discharge to the
ponds.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T4N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the North
Fork Calaveras River, a water of the United States and a tributary to the New Hogan
Reservoir at a point latitude 38° 12’ 39” N and longitude 120° 42’ 20” W.
3. Tr

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger completed upgrades to the Facility in 2010, at that time it was thought that is
would be possible to comingle the primary sludge and WAS from secondary clarification in the
existing anaerobic digester. However, the anaerobic digester and its heating system are too
small to accommodate the treatment of both primary sludge and WAS. The inadequacy of the
digestion system for the comingling of primary and WAS led to the overloading of the digester
system and subsequent digester upsets. Therefore, the practice of combining primary sludge
and WAS for digestion has been halted and WAS is now sent directly to the belt press for
dewatering. Since WAS is not treated prior to dewatering and drying, it produces a significant
amount of odor when it is piled or spread on the Facility’s drying pad. The Discharger is in
the process of upgrading the solids handling facilities but has not yet decided on the most
feasible plan of action, nor has the Discharger procured funding for the proposed upgrades.
The Discharger is currently considering multiple options to upgrade the solids handling
facilities to have the capacity to be able to treat both primary sludge and WAS prior to drying.
The Discharger is currently considering options and feasibility to expand the DLDA on the
Neilson Property to maximize land disposal and/or effluent reclamation to the extent
practicable. Expansion of the DLDA is also being considered in conjunction with the feasibility
of expanding treated effluent storage in Pond D or construction of new effluent storage on the
Neilson Property. A timeline for these upgrades has not yet been established.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the Californi