[Page 95]
1. Existing Facility. The Discharger has substantially completed upgrades to the
treatment system on the east of the San Joaquin River, which includes
screening, grit removal, raw sewage pumps, and primary sedimentation, where
settling is enhanced. After wastewater passes through the primary clarifiers, it
is pumped to the aeration basins for nitrification/de-nitrification, and further
routed to secondary clarifiers. Effluent from the secondary clarifiers is pumped
to the new tertiary treatment facilities on the east side of the San Joaquin River,
or it can be pumped beneath the San Joaquin River to the facultative pond
system and chlorination facilities on the west side of the San Joaquin River.
Additional secondary treatment and water storage is available in the facultative
ponds. Additional treatment is also available through engineered treatment
wetlands on the west side of the San Joaquin River. Treatment through the
facultative ponds and/or constructed wetlands are optional flow paths
dependent on a variety of operational factors. Flows to the ponds and wetlands
include flows pumped from the east bank facilities, stormwater runoff,
intercepted groundwater from the interceptor ditch located on the southern and
western boundaries of the ponds and wetlands system to minimize off-site
groundwater flow, and agricultural drainage that enters the interceptor ditch
from a neighboring property via a pipe. Optional flows enter the recirculation
channel that surround most of the perimeter of the facultative ponds and
wetlands system for flow equalization before entering the ponds and wetlands.
Water from the interceptor ditch is pumped into the recirculation channel and
then flows into the ponds or wetlands. Effluent from the facultative ponds,
constructed wetlands, or diversion structures (as applicable) is routed to the
Facility’s west side tertiary treatment system.
Tertiary treatment on the west side of the San Joaquin River consists of a
nitrifying biotower for ammonia removal, followed by dissolved air floatation
units, where removal efficiencies are enhanced through chemical addition.
Following the dissolved air floatation units, wastewater is routed through dual
media tertiary filters and disinfected using chlorination/dechlorination prior to
discharge to the San Joaquin River at Discharge Point 001A. The tertiary
treatment process at the Facility is less efficient during colder months, as longer
detention times in the facultative ponds and constructed wetlands results in
cooler wastewater inflow to the nitrifying biotowers.
Tertiary treatment on the east side of the San Joaquin River consists of disk
filters and UV disinfection prior to discharge to the San Joaquin River at
Discharge Point 001B. Once the Facility modifications are fully complete,
tertiary treatment will only occur via the filtration and UV disinfection system
with discharges at Discharge Point 001B, and tertiary treatment on the west
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 96]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2025-0027
WASTEWATER RECOVERY CENTER NPDES CA CA0079138
side of the river and discharges from Discharge Point 001A will cease.
Within the section of the Facility on the east side of the San Joaquin River,
solids from the primary and secondary sedimentation processes are either
routed to gravity thickeners, gravity belt thickeners, or pumped to the anaerobic
digesters directly. Following anaerobic digestion, sludge is routed to a holding
tank. Digested solids are further conditioned and dewatered using a centrifuge
or belt filter presses. Dewatered solids are hauled off-site by a private
contractor and routinely recycled on agricultural lands as a source of nutrients
and soil amendment. In an emergency, solids can be used as daily cover for
solid waste at a landfill. The Facility produces approximately 5,412 dry metric
tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
2. Upgraded Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the
Facility will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this
Order consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The Discharger has
initiated its Facility Modifications Project to increase the reliability and efficiency
of the wastewater and solids treatment systems, improve the treatment
processes based on existing and projected flows, and reduce nitrate plus nitrite
(as N) concentrations in the final effluent. The modifications included upgrades
and/or additions to the following unit processes: headworks, grit removal,
primary clarification, secondary treatment, tertiary treatment, UV disinfection,
solids handling, chemical addition, flow diversion and storage, and personnel
buildings.
The upgraded Facility treatment includes fine screening, grit removal, primary
clarification, activated sludge with nutrient removal, secondary clarification,
tertiary filtration with disk filters, and UV disinfection. Solids treatment includes
primary sludge thickening in the primary clarifiers with primary sludge pumping,
gravity thickening of primary sludge, gravity belt thickening of waste activated
sludge, anaerobic digestion, digested sludge holding, centrifuge dewatering
with belt filter press backup, and on-site storage and hauling of dewatered
cake.
The modifications will not involve further expansion of the Facility’s design
treatment capacity. An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the Facility
Modifications Project was certified on 26 March 2019 and construction activities
began in August 2019. The upgraded Facility is operable and the east bank
outfall is in use. Discharges occur at either the west bank or east bank outfall
and do not discharge from both outfalls at the same time. Treatment units on
the west bank side of the San Joaquin River (i.e. the facultative ponds,
constructed wetlands, nitrifying biotower, dissolved air flotation, tertiary filters,
and chlorine contact basin) will temporarily remain in operation until the
Discharger completes the final adjustments of the Facility Modifications Project
and fully transitions to the upgraded Facility and the west bank outfall is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 97]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2025-0027
WASTEWATER RECOVERY CENTER NPDES CA CA0079138
decommissioned and no longer used, at which point the ponds and wetlands
will only be used for emergency storage purposes.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 16, T1N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001A (west-
bank outfall) or Discharge Point No 001B (east bank outfall) to the San Joaquin
River, a water of the United States wit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of completing a Facility Modifications Project of
upgrades to increase the reliability of the liquid and solids treatment processes,
improve reliability in treating existing and projected flows, reduce energy costs and
provide reliable renewable energy alternative, and reduce nitrate plus nitrite
concentrations in the final effluent. The Discharger is in the process of completing
final adjustments as a part of the Facility Modifications Project. The upgrades do not
involve an expansion of the current Facility’s treatment capacity.
The Discharger plans to build return flow facilities from the ponds and wetlands on
the west side of the San Joaquin River to the upgraded facility on the east side of
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10
[Page 101]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2025-0027
WASTEWATER RECOVERY CENTER NPDES CA CA0079138
the San Joaquin River for retreatment. There is no timeline for construction and the
Discharger is currently investigating the feasibility of alternatives. The Discharger will
continue to discharge from Discharge Point 001A until return facilitie