[Page 72]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Redding, CA and serves a
population of approximately 61,500. The Discharger also provides service to Shasta
County (population served 100) and the Redding Rancheria (population served 200), and
four significant industrial users (SIUs). The WWTP design dry weather average flow
capacity is 8.8 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of screening for removal of large solids, grit removal,
primary clarification, activated sludge treatment with secondary clarification, filtration,
chlorination/dechlorination, flow equalization, and emergency storage. Primary sludge
is treated by anaerobic digestion followed by dewatering using a plate and frame filter
press and then disposed at a sanitary landfill. Waste activated sludge is stabilized in
facultative sludge lagoons and air dried to generate Class B biosolids. Biosolids from
the secondary treatment process are land applied on property owned by the Discharger.
The Facility has 12 ponds located adjacent to the Sacramento River covering a total
area of approximately 93 acres. These ponds are discussed in more detail in Fact
Sheet, Section III.E.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility (Assessor’s Parcel No. 050-030-12) is located in Section 31, T31N,
R4W, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 73]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER NO. R5-2010-0096
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
SHASTA COUNTY
2. T

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned changes for 2013: wet weather
storage only.
The sludge drying beds are a sludge treatment process that dewaters the sludge
prior to final disposal. Thus, these ponds are a component of the treatment train,
and therefore, are exempt from the requirements of Title 27 CCR, pursuant to Title
27 CCR section 20090(a).
Temporary Wet Weather Storage
Pond 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Ponds are unlined. Solids from the City of Redding’s Stillwater
Wastewater Treatment Facility are currently dried in Pond 8.
Wet weather flows are temporary and all wastes from the ponds will be treated
further in the Facility treatment system. Pond use as temporary storage of waste
awaiting further treatment is exempt from the requirements of Title 27 CCR,
pursuant to Title 27 CCR section 20090(a).
2. The State Water Board adopted the Water Quality Control Policy for the Enclosed
Bays and Estuaries of California. The requirements within this Order are consistent
with the Policy.
IV. RATIONALE FOR EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS AND DISCHARGE SPECIFICA