[Page 99]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Merced and serves a population
of approximately 93,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 12.0
MGD. Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions
at the Facility to increase the design daily average flow capacity to 16.0 MGD and up to
20.0 MGD, respectively.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of the following: a headworks pump
station with fine screens and grit removal; primary clarifiers; activated sludge basins
with separate anoxic denitrification basins; secondary clarifiers; flocculation basins;
filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; a rock re-aeration outfall; and a stormwater basin.
Solids handling and treatment include: a dissolved air flotation thickener, primary
digesters, solids holding tank, digester gas holder, solids dewatering facility, centrate
pump station, equalization basin, and lined active solar dryers. All dried biosolids are
applied to the Land Application Area (LAA) except the abandoned ponds 5 and 6
area. The Facility produces approximately 1,500 dry metric tons of biosolids
annually.
During emergencies, if the treated wastewater is not meeting permit requirements,
the wastewater is directed to the lined equalization basin. Additionally, under
extreme wet weather flow conditions, flows greater than the design maximum flow
are diverted to the lined equalization basin. Diverted flows are returned to the plant
headworks for treatment as plant capacity allows. In these emergent conditions, if
flows are greater than can be contained in the lined equalization basin, flow can be
diverted to the unlined emergency storage basin.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 10, T8S, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Equivalent disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is discharged at
Discharge Point 002 to Hartley Slough at a point latitude 37.253577 degrees N
and longitude 120.531599 degrees W. Hartley Slough is a water of the United
States and is an ephemeral, effluent dominated water body that flows to Owens
Creek and then to the San Joaquin River via a network of natural and artificial
channels.
3. Equivalent disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is also discharged at
Discharge Point 003 to the Merced Wildlife Management Area (WMA) at a point
latitude 37.23424 degrees N and longitude 120.5261 degrees W. The WMA was
created in 1978 to mitigate the loss of wetlands that occurred with the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 100]
CITY OF MERCED ORDER R5-2026-0005
MERCED WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0079219
construction of the Facility and the establishment of the Land Application Area
(LAA). To create the WMA, berms were constructed to form two ponds using the
fill material excavated from the edges of the ponds, resulting in trenches. It is a
constructed wetland area isolated from surrounding waters of the United States
by a series of levees and is an isolated, intrastate, and non-navigable water that
is not subject to regulation under the Clean Water Act. Public access to the WMA
is regulated and supervised by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife
(DFW). During the hunting season, DFW limits public access to around ten
people three days per week. The hunters can contact the water in WMA,
particularly during waterfowl hunting season. The WMA is posted to inform the
visiting public that water within the WMA is treated effluent.
4. Equivalent disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is also discharged at
Discharge Point 004 to the Land Application Area (LAA) at a point latitude
37.24047 degrees N and longitude 120.5261 degrees W. The LAA consists of a
total of 670 acres. Abandoned Ponds 5 and 6 make up 90 acres of the LAA, and
no biosolids are authorized to be applied to this portion of the LAA. The
remaining 580 acres do received biosolids for land application. The LAA has
historically been planted with a winter crop of triticale (a hybrid of wheat and rye)
or rye and a summer crop of sudan grass. Public access to the area is restricted
by two gates that limit access to the LAA

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions at
the Facility to increase the flow rate to 16.0 MGD and 20.0 MGD. The expansion to
16.0 MGD will consist of adding a fourth activated sludge basin, a third sludge
digester, a solids holding tank, and additional active solar dryers. The expansion to
20.0 MGD will consist of adding a fourth primary clarifier, a fifth activated sludge
basin, and a fifth secondary clarifier. Effluent quality is anticipated to stay the same.
The Discharger has not proposed a timeframe for the phased expansions.
The Discharger detailed some scheduled improvements in the ROWD. In 2025, the
Discharger plans to perform PLC and SCADA hardware and software replacements
and updates and UV system PLC replacement with equipment updates. In 2027, the
Discharger plans to replace aeration basins 1 and 2, replace blowers, and perform
headworks improvements, pending funding.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 o