[Page 54]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities of Lake Of The Pines and
Darkhorse and currently serves a population of approximately 6,900. The Facility is sized to also
serve the Cascade Crossing and Rincon Del Rio subdivisions, which are not yet developed. The
design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 0.72 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Microfiltration Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) treatment system at the Facility consists of a
headworks with course screening followed by fine screening. The structures following the
screening consist of the biological processes where BOD reduction, nitrogen removal,
phosphorus removal and solids separation occurs. The first structure is the denitrification
basin with an anoxic zone to remove nitrates. Following the denitrification basin the waste
stream enters the aeration basins to remove ammonia. Nitrate from the aeration basin is
returned to the influent of the of the denitrification basin. The waste stream from the aeration
basin then enters the membrane tanks for further mixing and thickening prior to treatment with
the membrane filters. Solids separation is accomplished using a 0.4 microns pore size MBR
system that is immersed in the activated sludge mixed liquor. To maintain the solids balance
the wasting pumps are used to pull of extra solids and older biological material to the digester
for thickening and dewatering. Treated effluent is pumped through the membranes by
vacuum created by a series of permeate pumps. The MBR system provides the required
tertiary treatment with effluent turbidities less than 1 NTU. The biological treatment system is
configured in two identical parallel treatment trains so that a single train can be taken off-line
for maintenance during the dry months of the year. The disinfection portion of the system
uses ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Scum and waste activated sludge produced from waste material in the MBR tanks is digested
in the aerobic sludge digesters followed by centrifuge dewatering. The dewatered sludge is
taken off-site for disposal in a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 27 and 28, T14N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 55]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER R5-2015-0028
LAKE OF THE PINES WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0081612
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Magnol

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Due to concerns regarding chronic toxicity that may be associated with the UV disinfection
system, the Discharger may construct upgrades to add peracetic acid (PAA) upstream of the
UV disinfection to enhance disinfection at the Facility. This Order includes effluent monitoring
for PAA when PAA is used in the treatment system.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commen