[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Wawona, which serves
approximately 300 service connections that include public and private visitor service
facilities, National Park Service housing facilities, the Wawona Hotel Complex, the Wawona
Seventh-Day Adventist Camp, and nearby picnic areas. The population of Wawona varies
throughout the year. During fall and winter, the population of the community can be as little
as 160 residents, with weekend increases due to vacation and rental cabins. During
summer and spring, the population increases to about 1,740 residents and visitors.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of a headworks with two grinders, an equalization tank,
an activated sludge treatment system, coagulant and polymer injections, rapid mixing,
flocculation, final sedimentation, and sand filtration. Phosphorus is removed by adding
aluminum sulfate in the final treatment units. Effluent is chlorinated and pH-balanced
before storage in two above-ground storage tanks, which provide a total capacity of 5
million gallons. The storage tanks also provide chlorine contact time. The Facility has a
design treatment capacity of 0.105 MGD.
Disinfected, tertiary-treated wastewater from the storage tanks is recycled for irrigation
on the Wawona Golf Course at Discharge Point No. 002. Wastewater gravity flows from
the tanks to the golf course pump station and is distributed through the golf course
irrigation system. Recycled wastewater either evaporates, is taken up by vegetation, or
percolates to groundwater. Following closure of the golf course every October, the
Discharger maximizes effluent application in order to enter the winter months with as
much storage capacity as possible. During the winter, when minimal or no snowpack
and temperatures allow, the Discharger continues to apply wastewater to the golf
course. Commencing around the end

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. The Discharger indicated in the ROWD that the existing sludge drying beds perform
well during the summer when evaporation is high but do not perform as well in the
winter. Therefore, the Discharger is evaluating alternative solids dewatering
systems that can perform year-round.
2. The Discharger is currently developing the Merced Wild and Scenic River
Comprehensive Management Plan and Environmental Impact Statement (Merced
River Plan/EIS) to guide future management activities in the river corridor, including
site-specific actions needed to protect the river at Wawona. As part of the Merced
River Plan, the Discharger is pursuing plann