[Page 85]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Davis and serves a
population of approximately 66,000. The design daily average dry weather flow capacity of
the Facility is 7.5 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility includes a headworks with a mechanical bar screen,
an aerated grit tank, three primary sedimentation tanks, three facultative oxidation ponds,
two aerated ponds, a polishing pond, an overland flow system, disinfection, and
dechlorination for both Discharge Point Nos. 001 and 002. Discharge Point No. 002
additionally passes through treatment wetlands after disinfection and dechlorination.
Operation of the treatment system varies depending on season. During the summer,
wastewater from the primary sedimentation tanks is discharged to the facultative
oxidation ponds, which are operated in parallel. During the winter, a portion of the
wastewater from the sedimentation tanks is discharged to the aerated ponds, operated in
series, and then to the polishing pond. Effluent from the polishing pond is then blended
with the remainder of the wastewater from the primary sedimentation tanks and routed to
the facultative oxidation ponds, with Ponds 2 and 3 operated in parallel and Pond 1
receiving effluent from the other two. Effluent from the oxidation ponds is then pumped to
the overland flow system. The overland flow system consists of 160 acres divided into 15
cells. Wastewater is sprayed onto the vegetation in the overland flow system, which is
sloped toward a common return channel and routed to the chlorine contact tank.
Wastewater collected in the return channel flows through a mesh screen prior to entering
the chlorine contact tank. During the summer months, effluent from the chlorine contact
chamber is then discharged to the Willow Slough Bypass at Discharge Point No. 001.
During the winter months, effluent from the chlorine contact chamber is discharged to the
Conaway Ranch Toe Drain, via the restoration wetlands, at Discharge Point No. 002.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 86]
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5-2013-0127
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079049
The wetlands include a wastewater tract, a stormwater tract, and seven numbered tracts,
each constructed with flexibility to flow to adjacent downgradient cells. The routine
wastewater treatment flow is through the wastewater tract, tract 6, and tract 7 before
being discharged at Discharge Point No. 002. The wetlands have the ability to recirculate
the treated flow.
Sludge is anaerobically digested in two anaerobic digesters and dewatered in one of
three sludge lagoons. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 29 and 30, T9N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Willow
Slough Bypass, a water of the United States, at a point latitude 38° 35’ 24” N and
longitude 121° 39’ 50” W. Willow Slough Bypass is part of the Yolo Bypass.
3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

