[Page 75]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Visalia and the community of
Goshen and serves a population of approximately 131,000. The design average daily flow
capacity of the Facility is 22 million gallons per day (mgd).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of preliminary screening and grit removal,
primary sedimentation, fixed-film biological treatment (i.e., trickling filters), activated
sludge aeration, secondary sedimentation, chlorine disinfection, and dechlorination.
Chlorine disinfection and dechlorination are currently only required when discharging to
Mill Creek at Discharge Point 001. The Facility process return flows consist of gravity
belt thickener filtrate, scum from the secondary clarifiers, supernatant from the digested
sludge pits, decant from the sludge drying beds, and septage hauler waste. These
flows amount to approximately 2% of the plant inflows and enter the Facility through wet
wells prior to the headworks. The Discharger collects its influent samples through these
wet wells. Sludge is anaerobically digested and dried in unlined sludge drying beds.
The anaerobic digesters process sludge from the primary and secondary sedimentation
basins and gravity belt-thickened waste activated sludge, and discharge digested
sludge to unlined sludge pits. Pumps extract supernatant from near the surface of the
unlined sludge pits and return it to the headworks for treatment. Historically, dried
biosolids have been hauled to a land application area in Merced County.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Sections 5 and 6, T19S, R24E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Mill Creek, a
water of the United States, at a point latitude 36

[Page 77]
7. Groundwater
a. Area soils are moderately permeable alluvial deposits originating in the Sierra
Nevada Mountains to the east. The surface soil is classified as Tagus fine sandy
loam. The geology of the Visalia area generally consists of deep underlying
metamorphic and granitic rock overlain by hundreds of feet of alluvium. More
specifically, the first 100 feet below ground surface (bgs) contains interbedded
sand zones that are periodically saturated depending on the lateral proximity to
surface water (e.g., disposal and percolation ponds and canals). The
interbedded sand zone is underlain by relatively thin saturated beds of sand
mixed with clay, clayey silt, and silt that extend to depths of 240 to 275 feet bgs.
The Discharger’s groundwater monitoring reports designate groundwater within
the interbedded sand zone as the upper aquifer, and previous reports indicated
the majority of the water supply wells in the area are completed

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of upgrading the Facility from secondary level
treatment to tertiary level treatment to meet Title 22 recycling requirements for
unrestricted reuse and will provide nitrogen removal. The Discharger also intends to
replace the chlorination/de-chlorination systems with an ultraviolet light disinfection
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9
[Page 81]
CITY OF VISALIA ORDER R5-2014-0076
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079189
system. The Discharger intends to cease discharging to Mill Creek once Facility
upgrades are complete. The Discharger plans to build a pipeline that will bypass Mill
Creek and allow it to discharge to off-site percolation ponds (Basin No. 4) owned by the
Discharger, which is where flows in Mill Creek generally end up. As part of the Facility
upgrades, several treatment units, including but not limited to two existing secondary
sedimentation basins and one trickling filter, will be taken out of service to
accommodate for new treatment units. The Discharger intends to utilize the pipeline to
discharge secondary-treated wastewater to the off-site percolation ponds once the two
secondary sedimentation basins are taken out of service in order to minimize
discharges to Mill Creek during construction. The discharge to the off-site ponds
authorized in this Order is temporary. The Discharger expects to complete construction
of the pipeline to Basin No. 4 within one year of funding approval, at which point it will
discontinue the discharge to Mill Creek. Construction of the Facility upgrades is
expected to be completed in mid-2017.
The Discharger will also reconstruct a portion of its unlined sludge drying beds with
asphaltic concrete pavement, and will add a paved area for stockpiling the dried sludge
removed from the drying beds.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in the Findings in section II of this Order. The applicable plans,
policies, and regulations relevant to the discharge include the following:
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to regulations in the Clean Water Act