[Page 0]
2. The Prison is at 4001 King Avenue south/southeast of the community of Corcoran, as
shown on Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by
reference. The Treatment Facility is at 900 Quebec Avenue and is south of the
Prison. The WWTF is west of both the Prison and the Treatment Facility and
secondary treated wastewater from the WWTF is discharged to a land application
area comprised of about 331 acres of farmland that are directly south of the Prison
and Treatment Facility, as shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and
made part of this Order by reference.
3. The California Prison Industry Authority (PIA or Discharger) operates a dairy that
provides milk for other California Department of Correction facilities. The Dairy is at
the northeast corner of the Prison property as shown on Attachment B. Dairy
wastewater is stored in ponds, and discharged to the same 331-acre land application
area used by the WWTF. In addition, under an agreement between the California
Department of Corrections and the City of Corcoran, the WWTF also accepts up to
335 acre-feet annually of secondary treated wastewater from the nearby City of
Corcoran.
4. The California Department of Corrections owns and operates the Prison and
Treatment Facility th

[Page 1]
6. The WWTF was commissioned in 1988 to serve the Prison and contained at the time
a headworks, two clarifiers, one oxidation ditch, four unlined sludge drying beds, two
effluent storage ponds, and a 268-acre land application area. The WWTF was
expanded in 1997, with the construction of the Treatment Facility. The expansion
activities included the construction of a second headworks, a third clarifier, and
second oxidation ditch, four more unlined sludge drying beds, and increasing the land
application area to the current 331 acres. The eight sludge drying beds were paved in
2004.
7. WDRs Order 95-267, adopted by the Central Valley Water Board on
8 December 1995, prescribes requirements for the WWTF and the Dairy. While the
WWTF continues to operate within the parameters of Order 95-267, the Order is
outdated and is not reflective of the current configuration and/or operations of the
WWTF and the discharge of wastewaters to the current land applica

[Page 1]
8. The WWTF contains two separate headworks with self-cleaning bar screens, two
oxidation ditches, three secondary clarifiers, eight paved sludge drying beds, three
wastewater storage ponds, and a 331-acre land application area. Solids removed
during the screening process are disposed of at an offsite landfill. The WWTF
provides undisinfected secondary treatment of the wastewater.
9. WDR order 95-267 initially approved a discharge of up to 1.2 million gallons per day
(mgd) from the WWTF, but allowed for an increase to 1.9 mgd following facility
expansion. The discharge from the WWTF, the Dairy, and additional effluent received
from the City of Corcoran have a combined flow limit of 2.01 mgd.
10. The Discharger measures the flow to the WWTF continuously a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

