[Page 56]
1. Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). The treatment plant unit processes include: fine
screens, an influent pumping station to equalize incoming flow, lined aerated lagoons for
primary sedimentation and biological oxidation (Pond 1 and Pond 2), biological treatment
facility (secondary clarification, aeration basins, nitrification and denitrification), alkalinity
adjustment, aerated digesters, tertiary filtration, ultraviolet (UV) disinfection, and
biosolids processing facilities. To control low alkalinity in the supply water, an alkalinity
adjustment structure was installed that adds magnesium hydroxide prior to nitrification.
Pond 1 and Pond 2 are both lined and provide influent flow equalization and oxidation of
organic material. The equalization ponds have a combined capacity of approximately
4.6 million gallons (MG). Pond 3, the lined storage reservoir, has a storage capacity of
59.7 MG with two feet of freeboard. Pond 3 is generally necessary in the wet season to
handle excess infiltration and inflow (l&I). At times Pond 3 may also contain precipitation,
raw sewage, secondary treated wastewater, and tertiary treated wastewater. The dam
ATTACHMENT F- FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 57]
CITY OF COLFAX ORDER RS-2018-0012
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079529
creating Pond 3 is classified as a jurisdictional dam by the California Department of
Water Resources Division of Safety of Dams (DSOD) due to the dam's height and the
storage volume in Pond 3.
Under previous permits, the Discharger collected all known sources of seepage and
returned the water to Pond 3. Cease and Desist Order R5-2011-0097 required the
Discharger to cease all seepage discharges from Pond 3 to surface water, and allowed
the Discharger until 1 October 2012 to comply. The Discharger installed a high density
polyethylene lining in Pond 3 by the end of November 2012 and completed all phases of
the lining project in January 2013. With the lining of the pond and construction of the
new plant, recirculation of the seepage from the Pond 3 dam is no longer necessary.
Currently, the natural seepage from the base of the dam flows through a v-notch weir for
flow measurement, and is then allowed to discharge to the Unnamed Tributary of
Smuthers Ravine.
The discharge point (EFF..:001) is immediately downstream of the UV system and
upstream of Pond 3. All water from Pond 3 is sent back through the tertiary treatment
system for processing prior to discharge to surface water. All discharged water is
tertiary treated wastewater.
It is necessary to dewater Pond 3 during dry months in preparation for the wet season.
After average precipitation-years Pond 3 will typically be dewatered by 30 June.
However, after a higher than average precipitation-year it may be necessary to continue
dewatering efforts into July through October and the tertiary treatment plant may be
operating near capacity for short periods. Because the flow limit is an average, the
average flow limit will not be exceeded.
2. Flow. The treatment plant was originally designed to provide a tertiary level of treatment
for up to 0.5 MGD. In a letter dated 30 July 2012, the Discharger requested an increase
of the "engineere

===PLANNED CHANGES===

