[Page 80]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The City provides sewerage service for commercial and residential uses within the City of Manteca
and portions of the City of Lathrop and serves a population of approximately 87,000. The City has
an approved EPA pretreatment program that has one non-categorical significant industrial user
(SIU) and two categorical SIU’s. The municipal wastewater collection system consists of two main
lines servicing the City of Manteca that includes 184 miles of sewer mains with 18 pump stations,
and another line servicing the City of Lathrop that is connected by 27 miles of sewer mains. The
collection systems are regulated under State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Order 2006-0003. A separate industrial line accepts food processing wastewater seasonally from
Eckert Cold Storage from about May through November. Eckert Cold Storage processes frozen
vegetables (e.g., cabbage and a variety of peppers), and discharges primarily wastewaters from
the cutting and washing of these vegetables. However, at times, the food processing wastewater is
mixed with wastewaters from clean-up of the processing equipment, freezer defrost waters, and
cooling towers. The food processing wastewater is stored and aerated in a lined pond at the
Facility, and then applied to agricultural fields when needed. The Facility occupies approximately
22 acres of the 210 acres owned by the City.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow capacity of 9.87 MGD and is an activated
sludge tertiary treatment plant. The Facility includes an influent pump station with two
mechanical screens that serves two parallel treatment systems. Primary treatment consists of
aerated grit removal and primary sedimentation. Primary effluent undergoes biological
treatment by ultra fine-bubble activated sludge aeration basins that provides nitrification and
denitrification, and is followed by secondary sedimentation.
Undisinfected secondary effluent is either stored for agricultural use in a 15 million gallon
pond or blended with food processing waste and applied directly to agricultural fields. The
agricultural fields are used to grow crops for dairy feed. The land application area consists of
10 fields located on land owned by the City (Fields 2 though 11), plus one field located on
property owned by Dutra Farms, Inc. (shown in Attachment B, Figure B-2). The City-owned
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 81]
CITY OF MANTECA AND DUTRA FARMS, INC. ORDER R5-2015-0026
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081558
agricultural fields total approximately 190 acres surrounding the Facility. Dutra Farms, Inc. is
named in this Order as the responsible party for management and operation of its 70 acre
agricultural field, APN 241-320-47, where wastewater is also applied.
Tailwater from the Fields 2, 4, 5, 10, and Dutra-Farms, Inc. is collected in a sump and
pumped back to the irrigation supply system. Tailwater from Field 3 drains to a sump and
pumped into the pond for irrigation. Tailwater from Field 6 percolates into the soil. Tailwater
from Field 7 drains to Field 10, and tailwater from Field 9W drains to adjacent unused land
that does not contain an outlet.
Secondary effluent in excess of crop demands undergoes tertiary treatment through rapid
mixing, flocculation, cloth media filtration, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. The
disinfected tertiary effluent is pumped from the Facility to its Truck Fill Station, located at the
entrance of the Facility. The Truck Fill Station provides access for construction vehicles to
receive recycled water for construction purposes. The Discharger has plans for additional
uses of recycled water. Disinfected tertiary level treated effluent is also discharged year-round
to the San Joaquin River through a 36-inch diameter pipe. Sludge removed from primary
sedimentation is pumped directly to anaerobic digesters while sludge from secondary
sedimentation is thickened by dissolved air floatation and then pumped to anaerobic
digesters. After digestion, the treated sludge is dewatered by centrifuge. Dried biosolids, grit,
and screenings are hauled offsite to a privately-owned landfill for disposal.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 4, T2S, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the San Joaquin
River, a water of the United States within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta at a point
latitude 37° 46’ 45” N and longitude 121° 18’ 0” W.
C. Summary

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Facility Upgrades. The City is planning to expand the Facility from the currently
permitted 9.87 MGD to 17.5 MGD. The Facility currently nitrifies and denitrifies tertiary-
level treated effluent. The City prepared and submitted for public review a Draft
Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) in compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) that addressed the expansion project. The increased discharge will
be primarily for effluent discharges to the San Joaquin River because the City
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 84]
CITY OF MANTECA