[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system, and provides sewerage service for the City of Nevada City. The Facility serves a
population of 3,100. The Facility's average dry weather design flow is 0.69 MGD and the
maximum daily wet weather flow rate is 1.60 MGD. The annual average daily flow to the
Facility was 0.38 MGD, 0.45 MGD, and 0.47 MGD, for years 2009, 2010, and 2011,
respectively. The high flows for 2010 and 2011 are influenced by the above average
rainfall received during the winter of 2010/2011.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The wastewater treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, lime addition,
influent flow equalization and emergency storage, nitrification/denitrification, activated
sludge, filters, chlorination, and dechlorination. The waste activated sludge is stored in
an aerated Day Tank, dewatered by a belt filter press, and hauled to Ostrom Road
Landfill in Wheatland, CA.
The screening consists of a Parkson HLS500 Hycor Helisieve automatic screen to
remove inorganics larger than 1/4", grit removal occurs in a manually scraped grit
channel. Lime is added via a variable speed auger to maintain optimal pH in the
nitrification/denitrification activated sludge process. Influent flow emergency storage or
equalization is provided, as needed, in the original primary clarifier no longer needed
with the new treatment process. Advanced secondary treatment is provided by two
parallel nitrification/denitrification activated sludge processes (2 basins and 2
secondary clarifiers).
Effluent filtration is provided by a disk filter and sand filter in series operation (filters
may also be run in parallel operation during high flow events or either filter may be
isolated for maintenance). Effluent disinfection is achieved using chlorine. The final
effluent is dechlorinated prior to discharge to Deer Creek.
Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site to a landfill. Secondary Waste Activated
Sludge is stored in an aerated Day Tank (with emergency backup storage in the old
Anaerobic digester) then dewatered in a filter press. The dewatered sludge is hauled
off-site to a landfill. Filtrate from the sludge dewatering process is returned to the
activated sludge process for treatment with the incoming waste stream.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 63]
CITY OF NEVADA CITY ORDER R5-2012-0033
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079901
The Discharger has a year to year contract with Robinson Enterprises to haul our
sludge. There is no contract with the Ostrom Rd. Landfill, but sludge is tested as
required by the state to meet the requirements.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 12, T16N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Deer Creek,
a water of the United States and a tributary to the Yuba River at a point
latitude 39° 16’ 35

[Page 64]
E. Planned Changes
The Discharger does not plan on expanding or making any significant changes to the
Facility during the next five years. In August of 2010, the Discharger began using lime
addition to the treatment process on a continuous basis. The lime addition is
accomplished via an automated auger lime feed system located in the headworks
following screening and grit removal. The Discharger found that adding lime
significantly improved the reliability of the nitrification/denitrification process within the
Facility. Operationally, Facility staff target maintaining an alkalinity of 75 mg/L and a
pH of 7.0 standard units in the selector basin. This change has ultimately saved the
Discharger operation costs by reducing the quantity of sodium bicarbonate needed for
denitrification and has raised the effluent hardness to a minimum of 75 mg/L without
significantly increasing the salinity of the discharge. The Discharger has incorporated
this operational change into the Operation and Mantenance Manual.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger does not plan on expanding or making any significant changes to the
Facility during the next five years. In August of 2010, the Discharger began using lime
addition to the treatment process on a continuous basis. The lime addition is
accomplished via an automated auger lime feed system located in the headworks
following screening and grit removal. The Discharger found that adding lime
significantly improved the reliability of the nitrification/denitrification process within the
Facility. Operationally, Facility staff target maintaining an alkalinity of 75 mg/L and a
pH of 7.0 standard units in the selector basin. This change has ultimately saved the
Discharger operation costs by reducing the quantity of sodium bicarbonate needed for
denitrification and has raised the effluent hardness to a minimum of 75 mg/L without
significantly increasing the salinity of the discharge. The Discharger has incorporated
this operational change into the Operation and Mantenance Manual.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in the