[Page 3]
15. The WWTF expansion project will consist of:
a. A new sewer network consisting of 8- and 10-inch gravity pipes to convey wastewater
from the North Valley Depot and Dunnigan Truck and Travel Center to a new lift station
with duplex pumps.
b. The force main from the existing lift station in the RV park will be reconfigured to
discharge into the North Valley Depot gravity sewer.
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2010-0013 -5-
GRANT PARK DEVELOPMENT, INC.
DUNNIGAN WATER WORKS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
c. A headworks influent screen and three parallel treatment trains. Each treatment train
will be constructed as dictated by the pace of development and will consist of a primary
pond with a central anaerobic zone and a facultative partially mixed aerated zone, and
two aerated ponds in series (see Attachment B). The design treatment capacity of
each treatment train is 35,000 gpd.
d. A disinfection system utilizing sodium hypochlorite injection and a contact chamber.
e. Two new effluent recycling sites that will be used to grow fodder crops such as alfalfa.
An 11-acre effluent recycling site will be constructed at the current WWTF site (see
Attachment B), and a 30-acre effluent recycling site will be constructed south of the
Dunnigan Truck and Travel Center on APN 052-050-251 (see Attachment A).
f. A 55-acre-foot unlined storage pond for undisinfected effluent at the WWTF site.
g. The existing unlined wastewater ponds will be regraded to create a single unlined
storage pond with a capacity of 15 acre-feet for undisinfected effluent.
h. Shallow earthen berms around both effluent recycling sites to provide an additional
26 acre-feet of unlined emergency storage for disinfected effluent only.
16. Design data for the new WWTF ponds are summarized in the following table.
Surface Volume 1 Total Operating
Area (acre- Depth 2 Depth 3
Pond Type (acres) feet) (feet) (feet)
Each Treatment Train:
Primary Pond 0.83 -- 10 5
Second Pond 0.39 -- 8 3
Third Pond 0.39 -- 8 3
Effluent Storage Pond No. 1 11 4 55 9 7
Effluent Storage Pond No. 2 2 4 15 11 9
Emergency Effluent Storage 40 4 26.4 3 1
-- Data not provided.
1 Total volume at two feet freeboard.
2 Depth from berm crest to pond bottom.
3 Design operating depth with two feet of freeboard.
4 Nominal areas based on draft design. Total available storage will be at least 32 acre-feet for
each treatment train and 96.4 acre-feet at full build out.
17. The RWD estimated effluent character as follows:
Parameter Units Mean Result
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) mg/L 30
Total suspended solids (TSS) mg/L 30
Total dissolved solids (TDS) mg/L 1,000 1
Total nitrogen mg/L 30
[Page 5]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2010-0013 -6-
GRANT PARK DEVELOPMENT, INC.
DUNNIGAN WATER WORKS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
Parameter Units Mean Result
Total coliform organisms MPN/100 mL 23 2
1 Based on the water supply character plus 360 mg/L.
2 As a 7-day median.
18. Raw wastewater will be mechanically screened and then conveyed to a splitter to divide
the flows equally to each of the three treatment trains at full build out. The first pond in
each treatment train will have a central anaerobic fermentation pit to enhance solids
settling and digestion. Effluent will flow from the first pond to the second and third
facultative ponds in sequence. All of the ponds will have aerators, and the third pond will
have a Hypalon® baffle curtain to promote solids settling. All of the wastewater treatment
ponds will be lined with a single layer of 60-mil high density polyethylene (HDPE). The
RWD included a Construction Quality Assurance Plan for the lining system.
19. Effluent from the third pond will flow by gravity into the chlorine contact chamber where
sodium hypochlorite will be added by a metering pump and mixed by a jet mixing system.
The design hydraulic residence time within the chlorine contact chamber is 30 minutes.
Disinfected secondary effluent will be pumped from the chlorine contact chamber directly
to the water recycling areas.
20. The new WWTF site will include an11-acre water recycling area. The second water
recycling area is a 30-acre area immediately south of the Dunnigan Truck and Travel
Center site. Both effluent recycling areas will be surrounded by three-foot earthen berms
to completely contain tailwater and storm water runoff. These areas may also be used to
store up to one foot of excess disinfected effluent during extreme wet weather years.
21. Recycled water will be applied by sprinkler irrigation year round as needed to support the
crops. The irrigation system will consist of above-ground metal pipe and impact-type
sprinkler heads. Application rates and frequencies will vary during the year depending on
weather. The Discharger will not irrigate within two days before a forecasted storm, during
precipitation, or within two days after precipitation. Precipitation that falls on the recycled
water irrigation areas during the rainy season will be allowed to percolate, and will not be
discharged off-site.
22. According to the RWD, the new WWTF and water recycling areas will provide a firm
treatment, storage and disposal capacity of 0.105 mgd as an average annual flow at full
build out. The water balance presented in the RWD used reasonable estimates of normal
influent flows, precipitation, evaporation, and evapotranspiration. However, no allowance
for seasonal I/I was made. Therefore, the RWD did not provide sufficient information to
set flow limits for wet weather months.
The water balance was used to model storage and disposal capacity during the 100-year,
365-day precipitation event with at least two feet of freeboard in every pond. The model,
which is based on the specific design geometry of the effluent storage ponds, water
recycling areas, and emergency wastewater storage within the water recycling areas
shown on Attachments A and B, indicates that the new WWTF will provide the following
capacities at full build out:
[Page 6]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2010-0013 -7-
GRANT PARK DEVELOPMENT, INC.
DUNNIGAN WATER WORKS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
Condition Capacity
Average daily dry weather flow 1 0.105 mgd
Total annul flow 38.3 MG
1 Based on the months of June through September, inclusive.
The RWD did not include separate water balances for each phase of WWTF build out, but
the engineer of record states that each treatment train will have a firm hydraulic capacity of
0.035 mgd as an average dry weather flow when combined with at least 13.3 acres of
recycling area and 32 acre-feet of effluent storage capacity if the new WWTF is built to be
consistent with the drawings provided in the RWD.
Because the engineering design is not final, and the draft design does not discuss phased
construction of the effluent recycling areas and effluent storage facilities in detail, it is
appropriate to require that the Discharger submit a water balance for each phase of WWTF
construction as it is completed to verify that the as-built hydraulic capacity of the system is
consistent with the flow limits set forth in this Order, including a reasonable estimate of I/I
flows during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event.
23. The RWD estimates that sludge will accumulate in the primary treatment ponds at a rate of
68 cubic yards per year for each treatment train. This is equivalent to approximately
1.1 inches per year. Based on this estimate, the RWD states that sludge removal will be
required approximately every 10 to 15 years. When necessary, sludge will be removed
form the lined ponds by portable dredge and/or suction hose to portable dewatering
equipment. The resulting biosolids cake will disposed of at an unspecified permitted site
such as a landfill.
24. The headworks will generate approximately three cubic feet of screenings per day. The
screenings will be temporarily stored on site and disposed of at an offsite permitted
disposal facility.
25. The RWD states that the following design features will be incorporated into the sewer
system and wastewater treatment plant to prevent treatment system bypass and
unauthorized discharges to surface waters:
a. Under a Terms of Service Agreement, all restaurants and food service facilities that
discharge to the sewer system will be required to install a grease interceptor to prevent
sewer blockages that might cause sanitary sewer overflows. The Discharger will
monitor the grease interceptors monthly and ensure that they are cleaned out as
needed.
b. Likewise, all truck wash and vehicle service areas will be required to install sediment
and grease interceptors, which will be monitored monthly by the Discharger and
cleaned out as needed. Nevertheless, it is appropriate to require effluent monitoring for
common petroleum fuel constituents to verify the effectiveness of both the pretreatment
program and the WWTF at removing residual concentrations.
[Page 7]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2010-0013 -8-
GRANT PARK DEVELOPMENT, INC.
DUNNIGAN WATER WORKS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
c. The main lift station will be equipped with a standby generator with an automatic
transfer switch to ensure continuous power to the pumps.
d. The lift station wet well will have a high level alarm system that will be wired to
automatically alert operations staff of pump failure.
e. A gravity overflow pipe will be installed at the headworks to divert influent directly to the
primary treatment ponds in the event of power failure or a clogged screen.
f. In the event of a power failure at the plant, both the disinfectant and recycled water
pumps will stop, so undisinfected effluent will not be discharged to the recycling areas.
Upon power restoration, the operator will return some of the effluent from the chlorine
contact chamber to the third ponds until there is an acceptable residual chlorine
concentration in the disinfected effluent.
Wastewater Collection System
26. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” (SSO) is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water
from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary
storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks,
highlines, etc.) may be

===PLANNED CHANGES===

