[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Woodland and serves a population of
approximately 55,800. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 10.4 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of influent screw pumps, grit removal using two
bar screens and two aerated grit chambers, secondary treatment consisting of four oxidation
ditches and four secondary clarifiers, flocculation, four cloth filters, and ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection prior to discharge to the Tule Canal at Discharge Point 001. The Facility also
includes the Erskine Pond, which is used for emergency flow equalization.
Historically, solids were stabilized in a set of 12 unlined, earthen ponds (South Ponds) located
to the south of the Facility main site. Currently, only three of the South Ponds (ponds 9, 10,
and 11) will be used for sludge management. The three sludge ponds will be actively loaded
with solids and will be rotated (loaded, resting, or drying) every two years. The three sludge
ponds will have a lime and cement treated bottom to reduce permeability and to facilitate
cleaning operations by December 2015. After the stabilization is complete, the pond is
drained and the solids are allowed to dry. Once dry, the solids are removed and sent to
disposal at the Yolo County Central Landfill. The other nine ponds will not be used for sludge
management however, they will be used to provide water storage and oxygenation to
minimize odors.
The Discharger previously used nine North Ponds for biosolids treatment. During the term of
Order R5-2009-0010, the Discharger dewatered and cleaned the North Ponds to construct a
pad for a new regional water treatment plant. Therefore, these ponds are no longer in use and
biosolids treatment occurs only in the South Ponds.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 2, T9N, R2E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Tule Canal, a
water of the United States, within the Yolo Bypass at a point latitude 38° 40’ 51” N and
longitude 121° 38’ 38” W.
3. The Facility is currently seeking to be covered

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has successfully pilot tested operation of the existing cloth filtration system
using 5 micron filter media rather than the current 10 micron media. The 10 micron media will
eventually be changed out to the 5 micron media on all filters.
The Discharger has obtained a State Revolving Fund Loan (CWSRF #C-06-8002-
110,120,130) to complete various upgrades to the Facility. The upgrades include: (1)
converting the existing oxidation ditches to nitrifying and denitrifying bioreactors. This
upgrade involves construction of partitions to separate the oxidation ditches into anoxic and
aerated zones and installing submersible mixers and fine bubble diffusers to replace older
brush aerators, (2) constructing a magnesium hydroxide feed system to buffer the wastewater
after the Discharger converts its water supply to surface water, and (3) various upgrades to
the sludge pond system. Facility upgrades (1) and (2) were awarded to a contractor in July
2014 and will be completed by September 2016. This project will reduce aeration power
consumption by an estimated 40% and will reduce effluent nitrogen levels.
Improvements to the sludge pond system will include piping and valve modifications to allow
ponds to be isolated for sludge stabilization, drying, and removal. The improvements also
include treating the bottoms of Pond 9 and Pond 10 with combination of lime and cement.
The Discharger has previously cement-treated Pond 11 to reduce permeability and allow
sludge removal operations. The bottom of Pond 11 was completed in 2012. The bottoms of
Pond 9 and Pond 10 will be cement treated by December 1, 2015.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant