[Page 63]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Ironhouse Sanitary District Wastewater
Treatment Facility (hereafter “Facility”) and provides sewerage service for the
communities of Oakley, Bethel Island, and the unincorporated areas in between serving
a population of approximately 31,200. The Facility consists of headworks, 7.5 acres of
aerated ponds and 2 effluent storage ponds with a capacity of approximately 350 acre-
feet (114 million gallons). Prior to discharge to irrigation fields, the effluent is dosed with
sodium hypochlorite for disinfection. The Discharger disposes of the effluent through
irrigation of agricultural lands for production of hay and pastureland for grazing cattle.
Approximately 162 acres of land is located adjacent to the Facility on the mainland and
an additional 425 acres on Jersey Island, one of eight western Delta islands. The
current average dry weather flow (ADWF) is 2.64 mgd and the treatment capacity is 2.7
mgd. Due to a lack of adequate storage, and disposal capacity, the Discharger
requested a year-round surface water discharge of tertiary treated effluent with
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection to the San Joaquin River off of Jersey Island. The
Discharger would continue to maximize land disposal with tertiary, nitrified and
denitrified effluent. The Discharger expects to begin construction of a new wastewater
treatment plant in August 2008 with funding from the State Revolving Fund (SRF) loan
program.
The Discharger proposes to construct a tertiary treatment facility with an initial capacity
of 4.3 mgd (ADWF) and a build-out capacity of 8.6 mgd (ADWF). The facilities would
include: coarse screening, grit removal, fine screening, anoxic basins, aeration basins,
membrane filtration and UV disinfection. The effluent would be nitrified and denitrified
and meet California Code of Regulations Title 22 disinfection requirements for both the
surface water discharge and land disposal. The Discharger would continue to maximize
land discharge to Jersey Island and water reclamation but discontinue land discharge
on the mainland next to the Facility. The Discharger proposes to discharge from
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 64]
IRONHOUSE SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2008-0057
IRONHOUSE SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0085260
Discharge 001 (see table on cover page) to the San Joaquin River, within the legal
boundaries of the Delta, a water of the United States. Attachment B provides a map of
the area around the Facility. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the Facility.
This Order only regulates surface water discharges to the San Joaquin River.
Currently, Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) Order No. 5-01-237 regulates the
storage and land disposal of wastewater effluent.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the facility consists of preliminary treatment of coarse
screening, grit removal, and fine screening. Biological treatment is by activated sludge,
through anoxic and aeration basins including nitrification and denitrification. Tertiary
treatment is by membrane filtration with ultraviolet light disinfection. Sludge is
dewatered using a belt filter press. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill or land
applied. The design average daily flow capacity is 4.3 mgd and current daily flows are
2.6 mgd.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located as shown in Attachment B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to San Joaquin
River within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, a water of the United States at a
point Latitude N38o, 02’, 40.74939” N and longitude 120o, 41’, 40.21180” W.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations and Discharge Specifications contained in the existing WDR Order
for land only discharges are not applicable to this Order.
D. Compliance Summary – Not Applicable
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger proposes to construct a tertiary treatment facility with an initial capacity
of 4.3 mgd (ADWF) and a build-out capacity of 8.6 mgd (ADWF). The facilities would
include: coarse screening, grit removal, fine screening, anoxic basins, aeration basins,
membrane filtration and UV disinfection. The effluent would be nitrified and denitrified
and meet Title 22 disinfection requirements.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 65]
IRONHOUSE SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2008-0057
IRONHOUSE SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0085260
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of the Limitations and Discharge Requiremen