[Page 64]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Lake the Pines and
serves a population of approximately 1,800 residences. The Facility is located on a
105-acre parcel just west of the Lake of the Pines community (See Attachment B). The
Facility design daily ADWF capacity is 0.72 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The previous permit Order No. R5-2002-0095 regulated discharge from a secondary
treatment facility with treatment in an aerated lagoon followed by three storage ponds.
The disinfected secondary effluent was applied by spray irrigation to 55-acres of grassland
from April through October. During the winter months, coagulation, filtration, disinfection,
and dechloroination processes were added to the treatment process and the effluent was
discharged to Magnolia Creek. Alum and polymer coagulants were added prior to
filtration. Disinfection was accomplished using chlorine followed by dechlorination with
sulfur dioxide.
The Discharger constructed a new treatment facility and all new systems were fully
operational by June 2008. The majority of the old treatment facilities (aerated lagoon,
flocculation basin, multimedia filters, chlorination disinfection system, chemical feed
systems, storage ponds and spray irrigation fields) are no longer integral to the treatment
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 65]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER NO. R5-2009-0031
LAKE OF THE PINES WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0081612
and disposal trains. The aeration basin can be used as emergency storage basin. The
Discharger proposes to use treated effluent to keep the existing storage ponds full for
wildlife habitat and onsite landscape irrigation. The new facilities are designed to treat
0.72 MGD ADWF. Tertiary treatment is required when effluent is discharged to Magnolia
Creek or to the on site ponds. This Order allows for year-round discharge to Magnolia
Creek. The new facilities completed in 2008 include the following (See attachment C):
1. Pump station: The two existing influent pumps were replaced with three 1,800 gallon
per minute (gpm) pumps with variable speed motors. A new 8-inch magnetic flow
meter was installed downstream of the rehabilitated pump station.
2. Preliminary treatment: Preliminary treatment for the new facility consists of course
screens, grit removal, followed by fine screening. The course screens are used for
removal of large debris that could damage downstream mechanical equipment. One
course screen is provided with the ability to bypass the screen to a manually cleaned
bar rack with 6 mm bar spacing. Fine screening (2mm screen opening size) prior to
the Microfiltration Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) system protects the membranes from
damage that could be caused by debris and non-organic matter in the waste stream.
Screened solids that have been washed and compacted are collected and disposed
offsite.
3. Treatment and filtration: The biological treatment system consists of a series of
treatment tanks used for BOD reduction, nitrogen removal, phosphorous removal and
solids separation. Solids separation is accomplished using a MBR system (0.4
microns pore size) that is immersed in the activated sludge mixed liquor. Treated
effluent is pulled through the membranes by vacuum conditions created by a series of
permeate pumps. The MBR system provides the required tertiary treatment with
effluent turbidities less than 1 NTU. The biological treatment system is configured in
two identical parallel treatment trains so that a single train can be taken off-line for
maintenance during dry months of the year.
4. Disinfection: The chlorine disinfection system has been replaced by ultraviolet (UV)
irradiation using low pressure, high intensity lamps equipped with an automatic sleeve
cleaning system. The new disinfection system was installed in one of the channels in
the existing chlorine contact tank.
5. Solid handling: Waste activated sludge (WAS) produced from the bacterial
assimilation of dissolved organic material is wasted from the MBR tanks. The WAS is
digested in new aerobic sludge digesters followed by centrifuge dewatering. A
membrane thickener is used prior to the aerobic digestion tanks; installation of a
centrifuge dewatering system. Polymer is injected into the feed sludge flow prior to
the centrifuge to aid in dewatering. Dewatered solids are disposed in a landfill.
6. Yard Piping: An additional 12-inch influent force main was installed parallel to the
existing force main. A new 18-inch effluent discharge pipe was installed parallel to the
existing 12-inch outfall pipe to Magnolia Creek. The additional pipe allows the plant to
discharge peak flows of 4 MGD.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 66]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER NO. R5-2009-003

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to add a recycled water supply system to reduce use of potable water
for plant use. The Discharger also plans on removal of accumulated sludge from the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 68]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER NO. R5-2009-0031
LAKE OF THE PINES WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0081612
existing aeration pond and conversion of the pond to emergency storage with the addition
of an automatic emergency bypass valve.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of this Order. The applicable plans, policies, and
regulations relevant to the discharge include the following:
A. Legal Authority
This Order is