[Page 75]
1. Previously, the wastewater was treated by a treatment system consisting of
headworks and two aerated facultative treatment ponds. Treated wastewater was
then stored in an unlined storage reservoir prior to land application. To comply with
the Cease and Desist Order, the Discharger upgraded the old wastewater treatment
system with an interim tertiary treatment system. Subsequent to construction and
operation of the interim tertiary treatment system, the Facility ceased discharging
wastewater to land. Domestic wastewater and collected seepage from the unlined
storage reservoir are treated in the interim tertiary treatment system and discharged
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 76]
CITY OF COLFAX ORDER NO. R5-2007-0130
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079529
from Discharge Point No. 001 (see table on cover page) to an unnamed tributary of
Smuthers Ravine, a water of the United States. Smuthers Ravine is a tributary to the
North Fork of the American River via Bunch Canyon, within the Sacramento River
Watershed. The interim tertiary treatment system became operational in
July/August 2005. The purpose of the interim tertiary treatment system is to treat
wastewater and to dewater the existing storage reservoir to allow for installation of a
liner for the reservoir. The storage reservoir has not been dewatered for more than
20 years. The Facility is planning to install a permanent wastewater treatment
system to provide a Title 22 equivalent discharge.
2. A schematic diagram of the interim tertiary treatment system is shown Attachment C.
The interim tertiary treatment system consists of headworks with a parshall flume
and manual bar screen, two mechanically aerated treatment ponds (Pond 1 and
Pond 2) arranged in series, chlorination, coagulation, sedimentation, filtration,
dechlorination, and a 69 million gallon storage reservoir. Wastewater flows through
the parshall flume, Pond 1, Pond 2, chlorination/coagulation chamber, and the filters.
The treated wastewater is dechlorinated and pH is controlled before discharge
through Discharge Point No. 001 to the unknown tributary of Smuthers Ravine. In
case of an operational problem, wastewater from the treatment system is diverted to
the storage reservoir. The stored water is later returned into Pond 2 of the treatment
system.
Pond 1 is concrete/gunite lined and has 6.7 acre-feet capacity with 3 foot freeboard.
The pond has four 7.5 horse power (HP) surface aerators and normally discharges
to Pond 2 by a 10 inch gravity pipe. In case of operational problems, bypass lines
are available from Pond 1 to Pond 2 and spill is available from Pond 1 to Pond 2 and
the storage reservoir. Pond 2 is concrete/gunite lined and has a capacity of 7.1
acre-feet capacity with 3 feet of freeboard. Pond 2 has two 10 HP surface aerators
and normally discharges to the Pond 2 effluent pump station. Pond 2 effluent pumps
consist of two 7.5 HP pumps with an approximate total capacity of 2.0 mgd. The
pumps lift the discharge through a 12 inch pipe to the chlorine/coagulation contact
chamber. In case of operational problems, bypass lines and spill are available from
Pond 2 to the storage reservoir.
The chlorination/coagulation chamber is 262 feet long, 5 feet wide, 5 feet deep. In
the chamber, hypochlorite solution (for chlorination) and a coagulant are added to
the wastewater. Hypochlorite solution and the coagulant solution are contained in a
2,000-gallon and 6,000-gallon plastic tank, respectively. The solutions are pumped
separately by a calibration pump through a plastic pipe that feeds near the inlet to
the chlorination/coagulation chamber. The wastewater from the chamber is then
pumped to the filters by lift pumps. Two 7.5 HP pumps (one as backup) with a
capacity of 450 gallons per minute (gpm) each, located at the end of the
chlorine/coagulation contact tank, are used to pump the wastewater to the filters. In
case of operational problems, the filter pumps automatically shut off, and bypass
lines and spill are available to discharge from the chlorination/coagulation chamber
to the storage reservoir. Solids that settle in the chlorine contact chamber are
returned to the Storage Reservoir.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 77]
CITY OF COLFAX ORDER NO. R5-2007-0130
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079529
The filters consist of eight 4 foot diameter filters with graduated sand filter material.
The filters have an automatic backwash cycle programmed to backwash every 2
hours. At the outlet end of the filters, a valve limits the treated effluent quantity to a
maximum of 0.5 mgd discharge. The treated wastewater from the filters is
discharged to a 6 inch PVC discharge force main line. The treated wastewater is
then dechlorinated using sodium bisulfite solution and pH adjusted with sodium
bicarbonate. The solution is stored in a 2,600-gallon plastic tank and is pumped by a
calibration pump through a plastic tube that feeds into the discharge downstream of
the filters. A flow meter is located in the 6 inch discharge pipe to continuously record
the flow. The 6 inch PVC pipe continues for about 1,800 feet down an existing road
near the downstream side of the storage reservoir and discharges through
Discharge Point No. 001 (see table on cover page) to an unknown tributary of
Smuthers Ravine. The discharge line from the Facility is valved such that it can be
manually changed to discharge into the storage reservoir in case of problems.
The storage reservoir is used to store excess treated or partially treated effluent in
order not to exceed the 0.5 mgd fully treated filtered discharge. The storage
reservoir is unlined and has approximately 69,000,000 gallons of storage capacity
and is approximately 70 feet high above the downstream toe. Two 75 HP pumps
located at the downstream side of the storage reservoir pump wastewater stored in
the storage reservoir into a 10 inch pipe that discharges into Pond 2. The stored
wastewater is treated in the interim tertiary treatment system discussed above. The
storage reservoir consists of dam/levee on the downstream side of the reservoir.
The dam has a spillway, approximately 4 feet below the top of dam, to prevent
overtopping and damage to the dam. The storage reservoir is unlined and
constructed over bedrock in an area of several natural springs. Seepage from below
the reservoir has occurred since its initial use in 1979 and the seepage flow is a
function of the amount of water

[Page 79]
1. Provision G.6 of Order No. 5-01-180 and Cease and Desist Order (CDO) No. 5-01-
181, due to inadequate capacity and treatment, establish a compliance schedule for
the Discharger to increase plant capacity to accommodate current flow and future
growth, and upgrade the facility to full tertiary treatment or complete land disposal.
The Discharger was to have been in full compliance by 14 June 2006.
Administrative Civil Liability (ACL) Order No. R5-2003-0167 assessed mandatory
penalties for violations of Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 5-01-180 in the
amount of $351,000. The ACL Order allowed the City to complete a project to
achieve full compliance with the permit by 14 December 2006 in lieu of paying the
penalty.
In response to the Orders, the Discharger constructed the interim tertiary treatment
plant with an unusual configuration. Effluent from aerated ponds, including collected
seepage from below a storage dam, is dosed with chlorine for disinfection and
polymer for coagulation, and the chlorine contact channel is used simultaneously for
chlorine contact and secondary sedimentation. The effluent is then passed through
pressure sand filters , and then is dechlorinated prior to discharge. The Discharger
also lined a drainage ditch to minimize runoff from entering the treatment ponds.
The plant has generally achieved compliance with effluent limitations. Compliance
with the permit, CDO and ACL Orders is being evaluated.
In October 2006, representatives from the Department of Health Services (DHS)
inspected the interim tertiary treatment facility at the request of Regional Water
Board staff. By letter dated 11 December 2006 to the Regional Water Board, DHS
reported that the configuration and operation of the facility does not provide
adequate disinfection even though it may comply with bacterial standards. Also,
DHS stated the filtration system over time is likely to develop problems. DHS
recommended that the City modify the facilities to (1) provide post-filtration
disinfection and (2) replace the existing filtration equipment with a process proven to
be effective for filtering sewage effluent.
On 1 March 2007 the Discharger submitted to the Regional Water Board, facility
plans for a wastewater treatment plant upgrade and a construction documents
project manual for city approval and authorization to bid. The Discharger stated in a
Reasonable Potential and Anti-Degradati

===PLANNED CHANGES===

