[Page 0]
5. The RWD presents information on site conditions and the wastewater treatment process.
The Discharger proposes to exclusively discharge to two storage ponds, one lined (Pond 1)
and one unlined (Pond 2). The Discharger’s long-term plan is to construct a new WWTF
that will serve its discharge, the discharge from the Tejon Industrial Complex to the east of
I-5, and eventually the discharge from TravelCenters of America, also east of I-5. The
discharge from the TravelCenters WWTF is currently regulated by separate WDRs (Order
No. 5-01-002). The Discharger indicates that it plans to submit an RWD in support of a
flow increase up to 0.8 mgd at full build-out.
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2008-0004 -2-
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT - TEJON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX WWTF
KERN COUNTY
Wastewater Treatment Facility
6. The WWTF consists of the wastewater collection system, influent pump station, headworks
with a comminuter, bar screen and flow meter, an aerated flow equalization basin, and a
dissolved air floatation (DAF) unit (installed in September 2007). Wastewater from DAF
unit is discharged to reactor #1 of the Santec WWTF (WWTF-1). From reactor #1
wastewater is discharged to the STM-Aerotor WWTF (WWTF-2). WWTF-1 is designed to
treat 0.05 mgd, and is an extended aeration package plant. WWTF-2 is also designed to
treat 0.05 mgd and is a fixed film process. The WWTF is designed to filter using a sand
filtration followed by ultraviolet light disinfection prior to discharge to ponds (Ponds 1 and
2). Effluent from Ponds 1 and 2 is then recycled on 14-acres of landscaped areas
(Landscaped Use Area) as shown on Attachment A. Pond 1 is 1.26 acres and equipped
with a compacted clay liner. Pond 2 is 1.13 acres and is unlined. Attachment B, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference, depicts a process flow diagram
of the WWTF.
7. Originally, and as reflected in WDRs Order No. 99-076, the WWTF consisted only of
WWTF-1. As flows increased, the Discharger submitted a RWD for the installation of
WWTF-2. Due to deficiencies in treatment from WWTF-1 and WWTF-2, the filtration and
disinfection facilities were not adequate. Therefore, the Discharger has never consistently
met the effluent limits specified in Order No. 99-076 and, therefore, is unable to recycle
effluent on the Landscaped Use Area.
8. Due, in part, to the WWTF’s inability to consistently provide adequate treatment and recycle
effluent, discharge was exclusively to the lined Pond 1. In the winter months, Pond 1 will
occasionally overflow to Pond 2 maintaining two feet of freeboard in Pond 1. The
Discharger submitted a water balance that shows that Ponds 1 and 2 provide adequate
storage capacity for flows up to at least 0.1 mgd with no recycling during a 100-year rainfall
return frequency.
9. Fluctuations in flow occur from the variance in traffic during peak holiday and summer
travel.
10. Self-monitoring data from December 2006 through November 2007 characterize the
discharge as follows:
Constituent/Parameter Units Influent Effluent
Monthly aver

===PLANNED CHANGES===

