[Page 63]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the Town of Discovery Bay and serves a population
of approximately 16,000. The current design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is
2.1 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility includes two plants (Plant 1 and Plant 2), which each
consist of a Hycor headworks screen, an oxidation ditch, and two secondary clarifiers. Plant 1
also includes a flow equalization and storage basin (labeled “Emergency Overflow Basin” on
Attachment C) and Plant 2 contains two ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection systems. The
influent is split between Plant 1 (40%) and Plant 2 (60%). The secondary treated effluent from
both plants converges at Plant 2 and then flows equally into the two UV disinfection system
channels prior to discharge at Discharge Point 001 to the Old River.
Sludge handling takes place at Plant 2 and consists of an aerated clay-lined lagoon (referred
to as an aerobic digester), two clay lined sludge lagoons, three belt filter presses, and four
greenhouse solar drying beds. The Discharger produces Class A biosolids. Biosolids are
stored on site in the solar drying bed buildings or adjacent to the buildings on a concrete floor
and disposed on a 25 acre field adjacent to the Facility. This Order requires the Discharger to
conduct a study to evaluate the impacts of disposing of exceptional quality biosolids in this
manner. Based on the results of the study, this Order may be reopened to regulate this
biosolids disposal activity.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Plant 1 is located in Section 31, T1N, R3E, MDB&M and Plant 2 is located in Section 31,
T1N, R4E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the Old River, a
water of the United States within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, at a point latitude
37° 53’ 08” N a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger requested a flow increase from an ADWF of 2.1 MGD to 2.35 MGD. In order
to accommodate the anticipated development in the service area, the Discharger recently
completed upgrades to the influent pump station and is constructing an oxidation ditch,
secondary clarifier, and installing additional return activated sludge pumps. The upgrade
project is expected to be complete by 31 December 2015.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This O