[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Facility provides for the treatment of sewerage for the northwestern portion of the
service area within the City of Roseville, portions of southeast Placer County, and the
South Placer Municipal Utility District. The Facility serves a population of approximately
78,000. The Facility’s current design ADWF rate is 12.0 mgd. As described in Section II.E
below, the Discharger has plans to upgrade the Facility to increase the overall capacity to
15.0 mgd (ADWF).
Previously, all wastewater from the entire service area was treated at the existing Dry
Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). The Discharger diverted part of the
wastewater directed to the Dry Creek WWTP to the new Facility. Wastewater from five of
the City’s six permitted significant industrial users (SIUs) is now discharged to the Facility.
Wastewater was diverted to the Facility over a seven month period, from July 2004 through
January 2005.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The wastewater treatment system at the Facility consists of mechanically cleaned bar
screens, aerated grit basins, secondary treatment activated sludge oxidation ditches
with nitrification-denitrification, and secondary clarification. Tertiary treatment is
provided by chemical coagulation with organic polymers, using rapid mix flocculation,
followed by continuous backwash filtration, disinfection with hypochlorite, dechlorination
using sodium bisulfate, and final polishing via cascade aeration to increase dissolved
oxygen.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
CITY OF ROSEVILLE ORDER NO. R5-2008-0079
PLEASANT GROVE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0084573
As a condition of the approval under CEQA for the construction of the Facility, effluent
storage was required as a mitigation measure to reduce the potential for downstream
flooding of Pleasant Grove Creek due to discharges from the Facility. The Facility
includes three storage basins (approximately 31.8 acres with a combined capacity of
65.1 million gallons) that provide effluent storage capacity and 100-year flood protection
by storing partially treated effluent for short periods or by storing only tertiary treated
effluent. These storage basins are also used in the event of plant upsets to prevent
discharge of effluent that does not meet discharge requirements. An additional
emergency storage basin (approximately 10 acres with a capacity of 20.6 million
gallons) is used to store influent that could compromise the plant process, as well as
secondary effluent, or tertiary filter effluent from plant upsets.
Biosolids treatment consists of an aerated waste activated sludge holding tank and
centrifuges for dewatering. Biosolids are disposed offsite at the Western Regional
Sanitary Landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 23, T11N, R5E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Pleasant
Grove Creek, a water of the United States (and a tributary to Pleasant Grove Creek
Canal, Natomas Cross Canal, and the Sacramento River, south of confluence with
th

[Page 77]
2. A pretreatment inspection was conducted on 15 February 2006 for both the Facility
and the Dry Creek WWTP. The primary finding from this inspection was that although
the Discharger recognized that Envirotech Dewatering could have a reasonable
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 78]
CITY OF ROSEVILLE ORDER NO. R5-2008-0079
PLEASANT GROVE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0084573
potential to adversely affect the Facility, it was not considered an SIU. It was
recommended to classify Envirotech Dewatering as an SIU and issue a permit to the
non-domestic user to ensure adequate protection of the Facility.
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning an expansion and upgrade to the Facility to accommodate
anticipated development in the service area. In particular, the Discharger is increasing
the treatment capacity from 12.0 mgd to 15.0 mgd (ADWF). The following specific
additions and improvements are planned for the Facility:
• Addition of primary clarifiers;
• Possible expansion of secondary treatment processes including the addition of a
new oxidation ditch and secondary claifier;
• Replacing the hypochlorite disinfection system with an ultraviolet light system;
• Addition of fine screens upstream of the existing tertiary filters;
• Expansion of the solids handling facilities; and
• Addition of an anaerobic digestion process.
The effluent storage basins will be reduced in size from 31.8 acres to 27.2 acres and
the capacity will be reduced from 65.1 million gallons to 31.9 million gallons. The
Discharger has determined that this capacity still meets the CEQA requirements of
reducing the potential for downstream flooding of Pleasant Grove Creek. The proposed
schedule for completion of the upgrade is at the end of 2011 for the replacement of the
disinfection system, and as needed based on growth and flow projections for the
remainder of the upgrades.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of the Limitations and Discharge Requirements
(Findings). This section provides supplemental information, where appropriate, for