[Page 0]
5. Portions of the WWTP are in various locations. The headworks, treatment ponds, and sludge
digestion pond is adjacent to the San Joaquin River and Walthall Slough; land application areas and
recycled water storage ponds are in several areas surrounding the lakes. The locations of the
wastewater system components and land application areas are presented on Attachment C, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. The Assessor’s Parcel Numbers (APNs)
for the headworks and treatment ponds is 241-030-10; the APNs for the land application areas are
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2006-0114 2
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT AND BECK PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
241-510-01, 241-510-05, 241-510-06, 241-520-01, 241-520-02, 241-520-05, 241-520-08, and
241-520-09.
6. The WWTP will serve residential and commercial developments. The developments will be
constructed in two phases. The phasing and anticipated time of development is presented below:
Scheduled
Phase Number of Residences Commercial
Construction
Phase I Late 2006 220 Single Family Residences None Planned
56 Mobile Home Units
Phase II Approximately 260 Single Family Residences 10.2 Acres of
in mid-2008 56 Mobile Home Units (total) Commercial/Professional
Office Space
Existing Facility, Proposed Facility, and Discharge
7. An existing WWTP is in operation at the site serving the mobile home units. Historically, the
existing WWTP served all of Oakwood Lake Resort, which provided water slides, campgrounds,
and a concert venue. Although the resort closed in 2005, the mobile homes are still occupied. The
existing wastewater system is operating to treat wastewater from the mobile homes. Presently, the
WWTP is being expanded to provide better treatment for the wastewater that will be generated in
the future land development.
8. The WWTP is being constructed to treat wastewater from new residential and commercial
developments. The developments will be constructed in phases; initially, the existing flow from the
mobile home park will be treated (approximately 15,000 gallons per day (gpd)). The first phase of
development will generate a total of approximately 55,000 gpd of domestic wastewater. The
second phase of development is expected to bring the total wastewater flow rate to 136,200 gpd.
The treatment system equipment will be constructed as part of the Phase I development. Land
application areas and recycled water storage ponds will be constructed in phases.
9. The Dischargers have reported that they intend to connect to the City of Manteca wastewater
collection system when it is available. The RWD reports, based on conversations with the City of
Manteca, treatment capacity should be available in 10 to 15 years.
10. The treatment plant will provide tertiary treatment and disinfection using a sequential batch reactor
(SBR) system. The treatment system consists of screening, SBR, flow equalization, sand filtration,
disinfection, effluent pumping, and land application. Sludge will be digested and stored on-site
pending off-site disposal. A treatment system flowchart is presented in Attachment D, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. Each of the treatment components is
further described below.
11. Wastewater will be delivered to the treatment system from three pump stations; one located adjacent
to the treatment plant site and two located within the housing developments.
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2006-0114 3
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT AND BECK PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
12. Influent wastewater will be screened with a fine mesh self-cleaning gravity screen to remove larger
solids and grit that could damage pumps or interfere with downstream process equipment.
Screenings and grit will be stored in a covered container for disposal at an off-site location.
13. Wastewater flow rate will be measured with a magnetic flow meter. A totalizer will record the
cumulative flow quantity.
14. Screened wastewater will be treated using an SBR process. The SBR will consist of a 200,000
gallon lined basin that will be aerated and mixed using floating aerators. The aerators will be
cycled on and off to create anoxic conditions to facilitate denitrification. The SBR is anticipated to
perform four cycles per day. Excess sludge will be wasted to the sludge storage basin.
15. Flow from the SBR will be equalized in a secondary effluent storage basin with a storage capacity
of approximately 49,000 gallons. Wastewater from the effluent storage basin will be pumped
through sand filters. A polymer (polyaluminum chloride) will be added to the discharge to increase
the efficiency of the sand filters.
16. Duplex sand filters will be used to remove suspended solids in the wastewater that remains after
clarification. Solids removed by the filters will be flushed in backwash water and returned to the
SBR basin.
17. Disinfection will be performed by addition of hypochlorite to the sand filter effluent. Duplex
hypochlorite feed units will be used for redundancy. The contact chamber will consist of a 24-inch
diameter pipe to maximize contact time.
18. Disinfected wastewater will flow by gravity to the effluent storage basin. From the effluent storage
basin the treated wastewater will be pumped to lined recycled water storage reservoirs.
19. Sludge will discharged to the sludge storage basin for digestion and thickening. Decant water from
the basin will be returned to the SBR pond. Sludge will be hauled off-site for disposal.
20. An emergency storage reservoir will be available for storage of wastewater during a malfunction of
the treatment plant and when effluent doesn’t meet effluent requirements. The emergency storage
reservoir will provide approximately 233,000 gallons of storage capacity.
21. The wastewater system includes provisions for component malfunction and primary power outage.
Critical mechanical components have duplex units or available spare parts. The control system will
monitor the status and performance of equipment. An alarm will automatically dial system
operators if a problem is detected by the control system.
22. A 100-kilowatt standby power generator will be available for use during power failures. The
generator will automatically start in the event of a power outage. The generator will also power the
wastewater lift station adjacent to the treatment plant.
23. Recycled water will be stored in the effluent holding basin after disinfection. During Phase I,
effluent storage will be provided in a 23.97-acre foot reservoir located in the northeast corner of
Oakwood Lake Water District. The location of the pond is presented on Attachment C.
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2006-0114 4
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT AND BECK PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
24. Treatment ponds located at the treatment facility are described below. Recycled water storage
ponds are described in the “Recycled Water Discharge” portion of this Order. A summary of the
treatment facility ponds, their size, and their liners is presented in the table below:
Pond Size Use Liner
SBR Pond 200,000 gallons Wastewater Treatment HDPE 40 mil 1
Secondary Effluent 49,000 gallons Flow Equalization HDPE 40 mil 1
Effluent Storage 330,000 Flow Equalization/Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
Sludge Storage 178,000 Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
Emergency Storage 233,000 gallons Emergency Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
1 HDPE 40-mil denotes High Density Polyethylene, or equivalent.
25. Stormwater that falls on the treatment plant concrete paved areas will be collected and directed into
the system headworks. Stormwater that falls on turf areas at the treatment plant will infiltrate.
26. Because construction of these developments is not complete, no site-specific data on wastewater
quality is available. According to the RWD, the projected wastewater characteristics are presented
below:
Constituent Units Average
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L 220
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 220
Total Nitrogen mg/L 30

===PLANNED CHANGES===

