[Page 88]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Modesto, the community of
Empire, and a portion of the City of Ceres, serving a population of approximately 225,000.
In addition to domestic wastewater, the Discharger operates a pretreatment program that
has issued seventeen liquid waste hauler permits, two groundwater clean-up permits, and
fifty industrial wastewater permits. The Discharger’s collection system consist of
approximately 670 miles of sewer lines, which collect and convey an average of influent
flow of 20.9 million gallons per day to the Facility (2010 annual average flow).
The Facility consists of separate primary and secondary treatment facilities. The primary
treatment facility, located at 1221 Sutter Avenue, provides primary treatment of the raw
wastewater, and then transfers the treated effluent to the secondary treatment facility,
located approximately 6.5 miles to the southwest at 7007 Jennings Road.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The primary treatment plant influent pump station and headworks structures provide
pumping, screening, grit removal, and flow measurement of the influent. The primary
treatment facility has a design treatment capacity of 62.5 mgd, and a design hydraulic
capacity of 80 mgd. Wastewater is pumped into the headworks by constant-speed
screw pumps. From the pumps, wastewater passes through four climber-type
mechanical bar screens. Screenings are dropped to a continuous conveyor for
transfer to a compactor for additional dewatering. Wastewater flow from the screens
passes to one of three grit chambers, where the separated grit slurry is pumped to
cyclone separators for additional dewatering. Once through the grit chambers,
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 89]
CITY OF MODESTO ORDER R5-2012-0031
WATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079103
wastewater flow is measured by parshall flumes and then distributed to one of two
primary clarifiers. Sludge from the clarifiers is transferred to thickeners, then
processed and stabilized through anaerobic digesters. Digested sludge is transferred
to holding tanks where it is periodically drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant
flows routed to the septage disposal station for blending with influent wastewater. The
Discharger applies the stabilized sludge as a soil amendment on the City’s 2,526 acre
ranch, which is regulated by separate waste discharge requirements, Order 94-030.
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the secondary treatment facility, where
approximately half of the primary effluent receives treatment with fixed film reactors
(FFR’s) and then is combined with primary effluent in an aerated recirculation channel.
Flow in the recirculation channel is then distributed to three parallel facultative ponds
for further treatment, and then transferred to one of two storage ponds until it can be
discharged to the SJR (1 October – 31 May, with 20:1 flow ratio, receiving water:
effluent) or applied to the City’s 2,526 acre ranch at agronomic rates. Prior to
discharge to the SJR, the secondary-level treated effluent is disinfected with chlorine
in a contact basin, and then dechlorinated with sulfur dioxide. The secondary
treatment facility has a peak hydraulic treatment capacity of 70 mgd. Attachment C
provides a flow schematic of the Facility.
The Discharger is in the process of upgrading the Facility by constructing a two-step
membrane bioreactor (MBR) process that includes an aerated activated sludge
process and a membrane separation process. An oxidation ditch provides activated
sludge biological treatment, reducing biochemical oxygen demand and providing
nitrogen removal (i.e., nitrification/denitrification). Ultraviolet (UV) light radiation
disinfects the filtered wastewater prior to storage or discharge. Phase 1A construction
of the tertiary treatment facilities (2.3 mgd), was completed on 1 July 2010.
The tertiary effluent discharge to the San Joaquin River has not occurred, because the
design engineer has not signed off on the Phase 1A upgrades. Due to delays with
State Revolving Fund loa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The City has planned for a three phase upgrade to construct tertiary facilities that
would increase the year round tertiary discharge to 19.1 MGD. The seasonal 70 MGD
secondary discharge will cease with completion of the Phase 2 tertiary facility
upgrades scheduled for completion in May 2018. With Completion of Phase 2
upgrades the design capacity will increase to 14.9 MGD for the tertiary year-round
discharge. There is no specific time frame for initiation of Phase 3 (19.1 MGD year-
round discharge), which will depend on population growth. However, the City has
conducted an Antidegradation analysis for the full build out and requested approval for
the full Phase 3 build out discharge of 19.1 MGD for this permit renewal.
The City’s proposed treatment for phases 2 and 3 is similar to the completed
Phase 1A process. A two-step membrane bioreactor (MBR) process includes an
aerated activated sludge process and a membrane separation process. The MBR
process is designed and operated to provide biological nutrient removal that nitrifies
and denitrifies the wastewater. Ultraviolet (UV) light radiation disinfects the filtered
wastewater prior to storage or discharge. The City developed a mitigated negative
declaration in September 2010 for the Phase 2 Facility upgrades.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in the Finding