[Page 1]
6. The WWTF provides disinfected tertiary treatment of the wastewater. Treatment includes
influent screening, flow equalization, trickling filtration, clarification, flocculation, digestion,
tertiary filtration, and disinfection. Adjacent to the WWTF are two lined effluent storage
ponds and one lined emergency storage basin. A treatment system flowchart is
presented in Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made a part of this Order by
reference.
7. Influent to the treatment system is screened with duplex mechanical fine screens to
remove solids then stored in an enclosed aerated flow equalization tank. The flow
equalization tank has a storage capacity of 40% of the total daily flow. This allows
wastewater that enters the plant during high flow periods to be stored for processing
when influent flows are reduced. The treatment system operates at the average daily
flow rate, which reduces the required downstream treatment process capacity.
8. Suspended solids are removed from the influent wastewater in a primary clarifier adjacent
to the flow equalization tank. Settled solids are removed from the bottom of the clarifier
and conveyed to the sludge storage tank using airlift pumps. The clarified wastewater is
conveyed to the first stage trickling filter tower for secondary treatment.
9. Secondary treatment consists of four trickling filters in series that will biologically oxidize
the soluble organics in the wastewater. The four filters are operated to achieve the
required biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) removal and nitrification of ammonia and
other nitrogen compounds. Wastewater is sprayed over the plastic, cross-flow trickling
filter media, where microorganisms remove organic compounds and convert them to
carbon dioxide, water, and new cells. Periodically, solids slough off and are carried out of
the trickling filters to the secondary clarifiers where they are removed by airlift pumps and
conveyed to the sludge storage tank.
10. Prior to final clarification, a coagulant (polyaluminum hydroxychloride or aluminum
chlorohydrate) is added to the clarifier effluent to agglomerate fine particulates into larger
particles to be removed during filtering. Rapid mixing disperses the coagulant and
enhances flocculation.
11. The clarified effluent is filtered using duplex sand filters to remove fine suspended solids
remaining in the wastewater after clarification. The RWD states that the sand and
anthracite media comply with the specifications for filter media issued Department of
Health Services (DHS). The filters are sized to treat a maximum flow rate of five gallons
per minute per square foot with one filter unit out of service as required by Title 22.
12. The filters are backwashed to flush out solids collected on the filter media. The backwash
water is returned to the treatment system at the flow equalization tank.
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0150 -3-
COUNTY OF FRESNO JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
13. Following filtration, the treated effluent is disinfected using a duplex feed system to pump
a 12.5% solution of liquid sodium hypochlorite into the filtered effluent prior to discharge
to the chlorine contact chamber. Sufficient detention time is provided to ensure a modal
contact time of 90 minutes as required by Title 22. Chemical storage is provided for a
minimum of 15 days of sodium hypochlorite usage.
14. Following treatment and disinfection the effluent is discharged to two 80-mil HDPE lined
effluent storage ponds prior to irrigation of the landscaped Use Areas. Each pond is
557 feet by 200 feet with a maximum water depth of 15 feet and a total capacity of
45 acre-feet with two feet of freeboard provided.
15. Settled sludge in the clarifier tanks is pumped to an aerated sludge storage tank for
digestion and storage. The sludge is thickened to between one to two percent solids.
Decant water from the sludge storage tank is returned to the flow equalization tank for
processing through the treatment system. The sludge is transferred to a second sludge
storage tank and mixed with screenings prior to disposal. Currently, sludge and
screenings are transported offsite by a licensed sludge handling company for disposal at
an approved receiving station. The volume of sludge to be hauled offsite during Phase 1
is estimated to be approximately 5,000 gallons per week. The use of a sludge-dewatering
device, such as a sludge bagging unit, screw press, or centrifuge will be evaluated when
the volume of sludge increases sufficiently to justify the capital cost and additional labor.
16. The WWTF is designed for continuous, reliable performance with provisions for
component malfunction and primary power outages. These provisions include: a control
system to monitor the status and performance of equipment and instrumentation utilized
in the treatment process; an alarm and automatic dialer system to contact operating
personnel if a problem is detected; all critical mechanical components in the process train
have duplex units or spare parts available for immediate repair; in the event of a
malfunction, the duplex unit will automatically be started by the control system; by-pass of
all unit processes for routine maintenance and repair while maintaining full compliance
with the effluent discharge specifications; a standby power generator available for use
during power failures; and by-pass to a lined emergency 500,000-gallon storage basin, in
the event of a problem.
17. Self-monitoring data from January 2006 to December 2006 characterize the discharge as
follows:
Constituent/Parameter Units1 Influent Effluent % Removal2
Monthly Average Discharge Flow mgd 0.021 NA3 NA
Conventional Pollutants
pH su NA 7.7 NA
BOD 4 mg/L 171 2.5 98.7%
5
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 207 1.1 99.5%
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0150 -4-
COUNTY OF FRESNO JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
Constituent/Parameter Units1 Influent Effluent % Removal2
Salts
Chloride mg/L NS5 91 NA
Sodium mg/L NS 84 NA
EC6 µmhos/cm NS 938 NA
TDS7 mg/L NS 634 NA
Nitrogen Forms
Nitrate (as Nitrogen) mg/L NS 22 NA
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L NS 32 NA
Ammonia (as Nitrogen) mg/L NS 28 NA
Total Nitrogen8 mg/L NS 54 NA
1 mgd = million gallons per day. su = standard pH units. mg/L = milligrams per liter.
µmhos/cm = micromhos per centimeter
2 Percent removal (% removal)
3 Not applicable
4 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD )
5
5 Not sampled
6 Electrical conductivity at 25ºC (EC)
7 Total Dissolved Solids (TDS)
8 Calculated by summing the concentrations of nitrate as nitrogen and TKN, and assuming the
concentration of nitrite is negligible.
18. On average, the EC of the WWTF effluent is about 700 µmhos/cm over the source water.
The RWD estimated that the effluent EC would be less than 300 µmhos/cm over source
water.
19. The RWD reported that nitrogen would be removed in the treatment process through
recirculation of nitrified wastewater from the final trickling stage to the first trickling filter
stage, and estimated that the average nitrogen concentration in the effluent would be
20 mg/L when active. In a 19 April 2007 communication with the Discharger’s consultant,
he indicated that the denitrification process has not been implemented.
Water Recycling
20. Disinfected recycled water from the WWTF flows to the adjacent lined effluent storage
ponds following disinfection. The ponds serve as the source water for the irrigation
pumping station that pressurizes the recycled water distribution system. The ponds
provide storage during the winter months when irrigation is not needed due to rainfall or
saturated soils. The ponds have sufficient capacity (45-acre feet) to store effluent during
a 100-year rain event.
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0150 -5-
COUNTY OF FRESNO JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
21. The disinfected recycled water is used to supplement irrigation water for spray irrigation of
the landscaped and recreational areas within the Facility, which consist primarily of
Be

===PLANNED CHANGES===

