[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Linda and portions of
unincorporated Yuba County south of Marysville and serves a population of approximately 12,000.
The current design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 5.0 MGD. As described
further in sections II.A and II.E of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is planning a regionalization
project with the City of Marysville that will increase the Facility’s capacity to accommodate an
average dry weather flow of 1.7 MGD from the City of Marysville, thus increasing the total average
dry weather flow of the Facility to 6.7 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of the headworks, two rectangular primary
clarifiers, four air activated sludge basins (that provide nitrification and denitrification), two
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 63]
LINDA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5-2017-0094-01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079651
secondary clarifiers, compressible media filters, a chlorine contact basin, and dechlorination
using sulfur dioxide.
The Facility discharges to land using a series of seven percolation ponds that lie within the
Feather River floodplain. The pond berms have been overtopped during high river stages five
times since the Facility was constructed in 1960, most recently in February 2017, resulting in
tertiary treated wastewater from the ponds being discharged to the Feather River. The
Discharger also maintains a wastewater outfall pipeline terminating on the bank of the
Feather River; however, this outfall is rarely used and was not used during the term of
previous Orders R5-2006-0096 or R5-2012-0034.
As described further in section II.E of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is proposing to increase
the capacity of the Facility to accommodate an additional average dry weather flow of
1.7 MGD from the City of Marysville. The proposed regionalization project would include
pumping screened raw wastewater from the City of Marysville’s existing influent pump station
approximately 3.4 miles through a force main to the primary influent structure of the Facility.
Modifications to the City of Marysville’s Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) include the
addition of a flow equalization tank for temporarily holding peak wet weather flows and the
addition of an odor and corrosion control chemical dosing system to inhibit the formation of
sulfides in the force main.
Solids handling facilities include a rotary drum thickener, two anaerobic digesters, four sludge
drying beds and a facultative sludge lagoon. Annually, the sludge drying beds are manually
cleaned and the dewatered solids are disposed of in a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 1, T14N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. The Facility is permitted to discharge treated municipal wastewater at Discharge
Point 001 to the Feather River, a water of the United States at a point latitude
39° 05’ 42” N and longitude 121° 35’ 32” W.
3. The Facility is permitted to discharge

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning to upsize the outfall pipe to the Feather River from 18-inch pipe to
30-inch pipe and to restore the side-bank outfall. The side-bank outfall is buried and
overgrown due to lack of use. The Discharger plans to reinforce the outfall with riprap.
The Discharger is also planning to increase the design capacity of the Facility to
accommodate an additional average dry weather flow of 1.7 MGD from the City of Marysville.
The proposed regionalization project would include pumping screened raw wastewater from
the City of Marysville’s existing influent pump station approximately 3.4 miles through a force
main to the primary influent structure of the Facility. Modifications to the City of Marysville’s
WWTP include the addition of a flow equalization tank for temporarily holding peak wet
weather flows and the addition of an odor and corrosion control chemical dosing system to
inhibit the formation of sulfides in the force main.
The Discharger would also like to relocate the groundwater compliance wells to improve the
ability to provide representatives samples of the underlying groundwater.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal