[Page 87]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Redding and serves a
population of approximately 74,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 8.8 million gallons per day (MGD).
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 88]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2022-0040
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is permitted to discharge up to 8.8 MGD ADWF. Liquid stream treatment
processes include influent screening, grit removal, primary clarification, aeration
basins, secondary clarification, filtration, and disinfection. Sludge is anaerobically
digested and dewatered using a centrifuge. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill.
Influent Flow. A majority of the Facility’s influent raw sewage is received by two
influent pump stations, which lifts the raw sewage to the headworks facility for
preliminary treatment through a 36-inch force main. The hydraulic capacity of the
main line is 60 MGD. Raw sewage from the Redding Rancheria's Win-River Resort
& Casino (Casino) is conveyed directly to the headworks via a 6-inch diameter force
main. Flow from the influent pump stations to the headworks facility is metered and
can be controlled with the Facility’s supervisory control and data acquisition
(SCADA) system. Influent raw sewage flow that exceeds the operational setpoint is
diverted to equalization ponds (Ponds 1A and 1B) by a control valve. The total flow
entering the main treatment train can be quantified as the summation of the flow
from the influent pump station to headworks and flow from the Casino.
Preliminary Treatment. The headworks consist of two micro screens, a Parshall
flume, a grit chamber, and weirs for flow control and distribution. The micro screens
have a hydraulic capacity of 30 MGD each. Washed screenings are compacted prior
to discharge to a dumpster. Screenings and grit from the headworks are currently
sent to West Central Landfill.
Primary Treatment. Screened influent flows from the grit chamber to one of two 95-
foot diameter conventional primary clarifiers with a design capacity of 15 MGD each.
Primary overflows to the Primary Effluent Distribution Structure, where it is routed to
secondary treatment. The Facility also has the option to utilize Chemically-Enhanced
Primary Treatment (CEPT), as necessary, during wet weather events. The CEPT
uses a coagulant (ferric chloride and an anionic emulsion polymer) to enhance
flocculation and coagulation during primary clarification. The CEPT enhancement
allow for the primary clarifiers to process a combined flow greater than 30 MGD.
Ferric chloride can be added to the primary influent at the Parshall flume upstream
of the grit chamber, and polymer can be added at the primary clarifier splitter inside
the grit chamber.
Primary Solids. Settled primary solids are pumped from the bottom of the clarifiers
to the primary anaerobic digesters. The Facility has three primary anaerobic
digesters. Primary scum is captured by scum skimmers and sent to the primary
scum skimmings wet well. The contents of the wet well are periodically pumped to
the digesters.
Secondary Treatment. The secondary treatment system consists of three aeration
basins and four secondary clarifiers. The original mechanical surface aeration basins
at the Facility were recently retrofitted, reconfiguring the original square, complete
mix-activated sludge basins to a serpentine flow pattern that approximates a
rectangular plug-flow basin. Each basin now utilizes a diffused air system and has
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 89]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2022-0040
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
been configured as the Modified Ludzack Ettinger (MLE) activated sludge process.
The MLE process consists of an anoxic zone followed by an aerobic zone, with
internal mixed liquor recycle to recycle aerobic effluent back to the anoxic zone for
denitrification of ammonia oxidized to nitrate in the aerobic zone. As compared to the
previous complete mixed basins, the new activated sludge process provides the
benefits of removing nitrogen, recovering oxygen, conserving alkalinity, and
conditioning the biomass for good sludge settleability. The secondary clarifiers are of
the center-feed, rim-collection type. Clarified effluent is collected in launders
attached to the inside perimeter of the clarifier. Clarifiers 1, 2, and 3 are 80-foot
diameter units, while Clarifier 4 is a 120-foot diameter unit. The secondary clarifiers
have a total hydraulic capacity of 60 MGD. Activated sludge accumulates and
thickens over the clarifier floor, where it is collected and pumped to the Return
Activated Sludge/Mixed Liquor Return (RAS/MLR) distribution box for mixing and
distribution to the aeration basins.
Secondary Solids. Scum and Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) are pumped to the
DAFT mixing facility prior to conveyance to the primary anaerobic digesters.
Filtration. Secondary effluent flows from the secondary clarifiers to the secondary
effluent diversion box where it is directed to either a cloth-media disk filter system or
a conventional deep-bed, dual media filter system. Currently all flow is being filtered
using the cloth media filtration system, with the conventional media filters held in
standby for high flows or for backup of the cloth filters, as necessary. The cloth-
media filtration system and the conventional media filters have an hydraulic capacity
of 24 MGD and 16 MGD, respectively, with a combined filter capacity of
approximately 40 MGD. Backwash from the filters is discharged to backwash
equalization basins that ultimately flow back to the influent pump station.
Disinfection: Chlorination and Dechlorination. Chlorine gas is stored in 1-ton
containers and is used to make a concentrated chlorine/water solution to disinfect
the filtered secondary effluent. Disinfection contact time is provided in the chlorine
contact chamber and in two 3000-foot parallel pipelines that carry effluent south to
the effluent outfall building. A sulfur dioxide/water solution is injected into the
secondary effluent flow stream for dechlorination near the outfall building just after
the two parallel pipelines join into a single pipeline.
Outfall. The outfall facilities include the outfall weir structure, dry and wet-weather
diffuser pipes, emergency effluent diversion and flow measurement and sampling
systems. The weir controls flow from the 66-inch filtered effluent pipeline,
maintaining full pipe flow to provide additional chlorine contact time past the chlorine
contact chamber. Effluent flow past the weir splits between the dry-weather and wet-
weather diffuser pipes. The dry-weather diffuser pipe is designed for flow up to 30
MGD. Flow above 30 MGD is diverted into the second outfall diffuser. The weir
structure is equipped with two stop log weirs, one serving each outfall. The weir
elevations can be split adjusted by installing

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the next five years a Pyrolysis system is projected to be installed at the
Facility. The Pyrolysis system will be added to the process after the centrifuge.
Biosolids will be dried to approximately 80 percent solids. The dried solids will enter
the pyrolysis unit and be heated to 1400 degrees Fahrenheit. This process will
discharge a ninety-nine percent dried carbon-based product known as Biochar.
Biochar is a chemically inert product that can be recycled in a number of ways
including soil amendments and carbon filtration media. As a result, the Discharger
does not anticipate the need to haul Facility biosolids to the landfill for disposal.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-11
[Page 93]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2022-0040
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079731
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, divis