[Page 88]
1. Treatment System at the Facility consists of the following:
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 89]
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2020-0015
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
• Four screw pumps
• Two 6mm punched plate screens
• Two aerated grit chambers
• Magnesium hydroxide alkalinity control system
• Four 2 MG oxidation ditches (Modified Ludzak-Ettinger fine bubble diffuser
aeration basins) each with an anoxic zone for denitrification
• Two 92-foot secondary clarifiers
• Two 130-foot secondary clarifiers
• Four cloth media filters – 5 nanometer
• Two ultraviolet light disinfection channels
• Pond System:
o Depth of water in the ponds ranges between 1 to 6 feet.
o Depth to groundwater is, at times, less than 10 feet.
o All ponds completed in native clay with a percolation rate as low as 15
inches/year (0.002 inches/hour). (Sandy soil has a percolation rate as
high as 1 to 8 inches/hour.)
o One emergency flow equalization pond (Erskine Pond also known as
Pond 13)
o Twelve former treatment ponds (South Ponds):
▪ Ponds 1 through 8 are used as algae production ponds;
▪ Ponds 9, 10, and 11 are used for sludge stabilization;
▪ Pond 12 is currently not in use.
• Two discharge points:
o Discharge of tertiary treated wastewater to surface water (Tule Canal) at
Discharge Point 001;
o Discharge of untreated or secondary treated wastewater to ponds at
Discharge Point 002.
2. Pond System Operation
• Emergency flow equalization pond (Erskine Pond or Pond 13)
o No engineered liner or soil treatment but completed in native clay
o Provides peak and emergency overflow protection, onsite discharge
containment during plant shutdowns, and is used as an algae production
pond to assist with the onsite sludge stabilization process.
o A portion of the Facility’s secondary effluent is directed to the Erskine
Pond to maintain the water cap for algae production.
o Primarily contains secondary effluent in addition to rainwater and
groundwater but also may contain untreated influent.
o The wastewater in the emergency flow equalization pond is not returned
to the headworks and the pond currently contains water year-round.
o Wastewater from the emergency flow equalization pond is distributed to
the former treatment ponds as described below.
• Algae Production Ponds 1 through 8 and 12 (former treatment ponds also
known as the South Ponds):
o No engineered liner or soil treatment but completed in native clay
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 90]
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2020-0015
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
o Along with the emergency flow equalization pond, these ponds are also
used for peak and emergency overflow protection, and onsite discharge
containment during plant shutdowns, but are primarily used as algae
production ponds to assist with the onsite sludge stabilization process.
o Primarily contain secondary effluent in addition to rainwater and
groundwater but also may contain untreated influent.
o Wastewater may be distributed to these ponds via The Erskine Pond or
from other points in the wastewater treatment process.
o Wastewater may be circulated around the nine-pond system from pond
to pond to maintain the water cap. Generally, wastewater is directed into
the Erskine Pond and then is pumped into Ponds 1, 2, and/or 3. From
there the water is directed into Ponds 4, 5, and/ or 6, and then Ponds 7,
8, and then 12 if necessary. After Pond 12 the water is directed back into
the pump station to be recirculated back into Ponds 1, 2, and/or 3.
Valves and gates are provided so that the City can bypass ponds if
needed.
o The wastewater is not returned to the headworks. Rather a water cap or
shallow layer of wastewater, groundwater, and rainwater is maintained in
the ponds for production of aerobic algae. Water in the ponds is lost by
evaporation and/or percolation and replaced by wastewater. The
oxygenated algae-laden water is distributed to the facultative sludge
lagoon to maintain the aerobic layer necessary for sludge stabilization.
o The algae production ponds may contain water year-round, may have
low levels of water, and/or may be dry.
o Salt tends to concentrate in Ponds 1 through 8, due to the operation of
the ponds. Figure F-3 shows the concentrations of EC in the Erskine
Pond, Ponds 1, 2, and 3, and Pond 5. EC tends to be higher in the
downstream Pond 5 than in Pond 1 or the Erskine Pond, with Ponds 2
and 3 containing intermediate concentrations of EC. The gap in data for
Pond 5 indicates that the pond was dry or did not contain enough water
to collect samples. Data for Pond 7 is similar to Pond 5 data and is not
shown. Data was not available for Ponds 4, 6, and 12.
o Groundwater in MW-06 has been impacted downgradient of the ponds
as discussed further in section VII.D.2 of the Fact Sheet.
o Salt concentrations in groundwater do not show the same magnitude of
increase in salt exhibited by the ponds, indicating that much of the salt
remains in the ponds due to the native clay soils.
• Sludge Stabilization Ponds 9, 10, and 11 (former treatment ponds also
known as the South Sludge Stabilization Ponds):
o Unlined but completed in native clay and treated with lime/cement
mixture to reduce percolation rates even further.
o Used for sludge stabilization as facultative sludge lagoons or sludge
drying beds. The three ponds are used in rotation so that one of the
ponds is in use as a facultative sludge lagoon receiving sludge and
water while the other two ponds are in various stages of drying and
sludge removal.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 91]
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2020-0015
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
o A facultative sludge lagoon is operated so that heavy solids will settle to
the bottom and lighter solids will float. A population of anaerobic
organisms will colonize the accumulated sludge on the bottom of the
lagoon. The upper layers of the lagoon provide an atmospheric oxygen
transfer rate adequate to prevent anaerobic conditions on the lagoon
surface. Intermediate depths of the lagoon support facultative micro-
organisms capable of oxidizing both the dissolved and suspended
organics from the original wastewater and the products of anaerobic
catabolism on the bottom of the lagoon.
3. Groundwater Monitoring Wells.
• Depth to groundwater ranges between 3 to 20 feet below ground surface.
• Direction of groundwater flow is northerly, ranging between north northwest
to east northeast depending on seasons, irrigation, and groundwater
pumping.
• Groundwater monitoring network consists of fifteen monitoring wells; MW-1
through MW-15.
o MW-3, MW-5, and MW-7 were destroyed.
o MW-4 is inaccessible due to roots.
o MW-14 and MW-15 cannot be located.
o MW-1 is the current upgradient well.
o MW-2, MW-6, MW-09, and MW-11 are current downgradient wells
o MW-8, MW-10, MW-12, and MW13 are of limited usefulness for
compliance monitoring because they are up-gradient, cross-gradient,
and/or far from the Facility.
o Current well status is shown below in Table F-2.
Table F-2. Monitoring Well Status
Monitoring Location Monitoring Well Status
GW-01 MW-1 Upgradient well
GW-02 MW-2 Downgradient well
-- MW-3 Destroyed
-- MW-4 Inaccessible
-- MW-5 Destroyed
GW-06 MW-6 Downgradient well
-- MW-7 Destroyed
Limited usefulness, significant
GW-08 MW-8
distance from Facility
GW-09 MW-9 Downgradient well
Crossgradient or upgradient,
GW-10 MW-10
depending on season
GW-11 MW-11 Downgradient well
GW-12 MW-12 Upgradent
Upgradient or crossgradient,
GW-13 MW-13
depending on season
-- MW-14 Inaccessible
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 92]
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2020-0015
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
Monitoring Location Monitoring Well Status
-- MW-15 Inaccessible
4. Facility Upgrades. Upgrades completed during the previous permit term are
described below. The Facility was originally built in 1988 and was expanded in
1997, in 1999, and in 2007. A 2007 project upgraded the plant to provide
tertiary level treatment (chemical addition, cloth media filtration, and UV
disinfection). During the term of the previous permit, Order R5-2014-0120-01,
the Discharger converted the secondary treatment process from extended air to
Modified Ludzack-Ettinger and upgraded the aeration process equipment from
brush rotors to diffused air.
• Transformed secondary treatment process from extended air to Modified
Ludzack Ettinger.
• Upgraded aeration process equipment from brush rotors to diffused air and
turbo blowers.
• Upgraded tertiary treatment cloth media from 10 nanometers to 5
nanometers.
• Added a magnesium hydroxide alkalinity control system to address the
change to surface water.
• Replaced a 0.25 inch by 6.0 inch moving bar screen with a 6 mm punched
plate screen.
• Upgraded the 1993 SCADA system from a single point control to a Tolkien
Ring Control Network.
• Removed 30 years of accumulated biosolids and cleaned 3 ponds, treated
the 11.4-acre pond bottoms with soil cement, and completed the plan to
cycle through the ponds for stabilization, and drying.
• Installed two solar arrays to power 50% of the Facility power demands.
• Implemented a recycled water supply system.
5. Biosolids. Sludge that has settled in the secondary clarifiers is siphoned to the
return sludge pump station (RSPS). At the RSPS, the sludge is either recycled
within the system as return activated sludge (RAS) or wasted from the system
as waste activated sludge (WAS). WAS is pumped to the sludge stabilization
ponds. WAS can be directed to the three, of the twelve ponds, that are lined.
The sludge stabilization process consists of 1) loading one of the three ponds
with sludge for two to three years, 2) allowing that pond to rest (digest) for two
years, and 3) allowing the biosolids to dry in place. Dried biosolids are hauled
to a landfill for disposal. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is
regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503. The three sludge stabilization
ponds (Ponds 9, 10, and 11) are alternately operated as facultative sludge
lagoons or sludge drying beds.
6. Delta Regional Monitoring Program (RMP). As of 20 April 2015, the
Discharger is participating in the Delta RMP; therefore, receiving water
hardness, pH, temperature, and DO monthly self-monitoring data are not
available from April 2015 through March 2019. The effluent and receiving
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 93]
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2020-0015
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILIT

===PLANNED CHANGES===

