[Page 0]
2. For the purposes of this Order, the term WWTF shall mean the wastewater collection
system, the wastewater treatment system, sludge beds, recycled water distribution piping,
recycled water storage ponds, and the land application area.
3. The Prison is at the southeast corner of Cecil Avenue and Wasco-Pond Road, about four
miles west of the City of Delano, in Section 7, T25S, R25E, MDB&M, as shown on
Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made a part of this Order by reference. The
WWTF is in the southeast corner of Section 7 adjacent the northeast corner of Benner·
Avenue and Garces Highway (Kernell Avenue).
Wastewater Treatment Facility
4. The Report of Waste Discharge presents information on site conditions, wastewater
quantity, the wastewater collection system, the treatment process, and the management
and disposal of effluent.
5. The WWTF provides disinfected secondary treatment of the wastewater stream.
Treatment includes screening to remove large solids, extended aeration, and disinfection.
Waste activated sludge is pumped to lined drying beds pending offsite disposal. A
treatment system flowchart is presented in Attachment 8, which is attached hereto and
made a ·part of this Order by reference. Each of the treat~ent system components is
described below. ·
[Page 1]
(
\
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. RS-2007-0090 -2-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON WWTF
KERN COUNTY
6. The headworks contain two mechanical screens, a coarse bar screen (2-inch spacing)
and a fine screen (1/4 inch spacing). Screenings from the fine bar screen are washed to
. remove fecal material; dewatered, and compacted. Screenings are deposited in a trash
bin and hauled to a permitted landfill disposal site. The screens can be operated
manually or automatically.
7. Wastewater is delivered by four influent pumps (influent pump station, three working and
one on standby) into two soil-cement lined extended aeration basins. Water level sensors
control the pumps. The design capacity of each in.flow pump is 700 gallons per minute.
The flow is recorded by a magnetic flow meter and a totalizer records the cumulative flow
quantity.
8. The aeration basins are rectangular soil-cement lined ponds, 12 feet deep in the center
and having 3: 1 side slopes. The dimensions at the bottom of each basin are about 127
feet long and 52 feet wide and when filled to a depth of ten feet contain about 0.82 million
gallons. Air is supplied by three 75-horsepower blowers capable of delivering 1,500
standard cubic feet of air per minute. The flow is then directed into a distribution box
where the flow is directed to two secondary clarifiers.
9. The secondary clarifiers are 45 feet in diameter with a sidewall height of 12 feet. Each
clarifier has a surface area of approximately 1,590 square feet. Wastewater from the
clarifiers is collected and delivered to two chlorine contact chambers.
10. The chlorine contact chambers utilize a 12 percent sodium hypochlorite solution at a dos.e
of 10 milligrams per liter (mg/L) for disinfection. Each contact basin has five 4-foot wide
passes that are 60 feet long. There is an effluen~ weir to maint~in a depth of 4 feet in
each chamber. The chlorine flow rate is paced to the wastewater flow rate as measured
by the effluent Parshall flume. The chlorine contact chamber is designed to provide 52
minutes of contact time at the maximum daily flow rate.
11. Three waste activated sludge pumps deliver sludge from the secondary clarifiers to the six
lined sludge ·drying beds. Each sludge bed has a bottom area of 16,000 square feet, is
lined with 6-inches of soil cement, and contains two filtering under drain channels to return
sludge percolate·to the WWTF influent pump station.
12. Generators will power the WWTF in case of a power failure and will start automatically.
13. Self-monitoring reports from 2006 indicate that winter flows are not higher than summer
flo

[Page 4]
23. The wastewater collection system for the Prison consists of gravity flow PVC sewer
pipelines ranging in size from· 4 inches to 21 inches at the headworks. Building sewer
a
lines are minimum diameter of 4 inches, while sewer mains have a minimum 8-inch ·
diameter. Minimum slopes for sewer mains were selected to maintain a velocity of 2.0
feet per second or greater when flowing half full.
24. Manholes have a 350-foot maximum spacing and are located in areas with changes in
slope, changes in pipe size, junctions at the sewer mains, and laterals if th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

