[Page 57]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities of Quincy and East Quincy, and
serves a population of approximately 4,217 (2010 census). The design average dry weather flow
capacity of the Facility is 1.6 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks (a comminutor and manually
cleaned bar screen, Parshall flume with a sonic level sensor, and an aerated grit chamber),
two parallel trains of rotating biological contactors (each with three 12-foot diameter units in
series), four one-quarter acre settling/polishing ponds, a serpentine chlorine contact chamber
(disinfection by sodium hypochlorite), dechlorination by addition of sodium bisulfite, Parshall
flume to measure effluent flow, irrigation pond (approximately 6 acres), and an effluent
storage pond containing a wetlands area for additional polishing (approximately 35 acres).
Sludge is removed from the ponds when necessary.
Treated wastewater is stored in the irrigation pond prior to discharge to either Leonhardt
Ranch or to Spanish Creek. The irrigation pond provides storage capacity of 5.2 million
gallons, equivalent to approximately 5 days of dry weather storage.
During the dry season (typically 16 May through 31 October), effluent is land applied to
neighboring Leonhardt Ranch, a non-dairy cattle pasture. The irrigation pond provides
consistent water quality for the ranch during the non-discharge period. The Discharger has
purchased 80 out of 200 acres that is currently irrigated by Leonhardt Ranch, which provides
the Discharger with greater long-term security for dry weather irrigation use, and space for
potential future expansions and improvements.
During the wet season, wastewater from the irrigation pond continues through the effluent
storage pond and is discharged via a submerged outfall diffuser to Spanish Creek at
Discharge Point 001 (referred to as D-002 in Order R5-2010-0032), a water of the United
States, and tributary to the North Fork Feather River. This Order does not restrict the
discharge season, but instead contains a discharge prohibition for discharges to Spanish
Creek unless an average daily flow ratio of 20:1 is present (Spanish Creek flow: effluent flow).
[Page 58]
QUINCY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER R5-2016-0049
QUINCY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078981
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
Order R5-2010-0032 also permitted discharges to Clear Stream, a tributary of Spanish Creek,
at former Discharge Point D-001. The Discharger discontinued discharges at this location in
December 2010. This Order does not permit discharges to Clear Stream.
Each summer, two of the four settling/polishing ponds are taken out of service and the settled
solids are allowed to solar dry. The ponds are dried on a rotational basis such that each pond
is emptied once every 2 years. Dried biosolids are hauled to a permitted landfill or
appropriately permitted landspreading operations.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Sections 11, 12, and 14, T24N, R9E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Spanish Creek, a
water of the United States and a tributary to the North Fork Feather River, at a point
latitude 39° 57’ 10” N and longitude 120° 56’

===PLANNED CHANGES===

