[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Yuba City and serves a
population of approximately 52,000. In addition, the Facility accepts septage from
unsewered portions of Sutter and Yuba Counties. The Facility design average dry weather
flow capacity is 10.5 MGD.
Municipal and industrial wastewater treated at the Facility is either discharged to the
Feather River or to disposal ponds within the levee on the eastern side of the Feather
River. The Facility also uses treated wastewater for multiple processes including the spray
system on primary clarifiers and belt filter presses, makeup water for polymers, reheating
oxygen, and hosing down facilities in addition to landscape irrigation of 3.5 acres at the
Facility. The ROWD estimates the seasonal dependent annual average daily volume used
for reuse to be 0.51 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of bar screening, aerated grit removal,
primary clarification, pure oxygen aeration, secondary clarification, chlorine disinfection,
and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. The pure oxygen aeration process at the
Facility (that includes three covered high purity oxygen basins) was designed to handle
high and variable biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) loadings from local industrial and
commercial dischargers (e.g., food processing facilities). Among other benefits such as
reductions in odor and sludge volumes, the primary advantage of pure oxygen aeration
processes is that they provide a higher efficiency in oxygen transfer as compared to
conventional atmospheric air. Although pure oxygen aeration systems can be designed
and operated for nutrient removal, the Facility does not operate to achieve nitrification
and denitrification. In addition, pH adjustment with sodium hydroxide solution is
performed as needed in the chlorine contact basins (decreases in pH are typical for
pure oxygen aeration systems as wastewater becomes supersaturated with CO2).
Polyammonium phosphate (aqueous ammonia and ammonia polyphosphate) is added
at the inlet box to aeration basins on an as-needed basis to ensure adequate food-to-
microorganisms ratio in the activated sludge (pure oxygen) process due to nutritionally
dilute industrial discharges. Approximately 50 percent of the BOD loading to the Facility
is from one significant industrial user (Sunsweet Growers) that discharges a nutritionally
dilute industrial discharge. All storm water is directed to an on-site storm water basin
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 74]
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER R5-2013-0094
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079260
where it may be directed to the headworks. The Discharger is permitted for stormwater
under the State Water Board’s Industrial Stormwater General Order.
Biosolids are thickened using rotary drum thickeners and then anaerobically digested in
two digesters. Digested biosolids are dewatered by belt filter press and disposed of off-
site as landfill cover material. The Facility is also equipped with three composite bed
biofilters that are used to control odors from headworks, primary clarification, and
dewatering building operations.
Secondary-level treated effluent from the Facility may be discharged to the Feather
River via a multiport diffuser at Discharge Point No. 001 or may be directed to a series
of six disposal ponds located within the Feather River levee. Each disposal pond is
roughly 1 million square feet in size; the total capacity of the six disposal ponds is
approximately 179 million gallons. At the ponds, the depth to groundwater is
approximately 30 feet. The Facility can discharge to any pond at any time. There is no
operational plan on which disposal pond to use and when. The Facility’s goal is to have
all disposal ponds dry by 1 November of each year. According to the ROWD, the
annual average flow to the disposal ponds is 5.22 MGD.
The six disposal ponds are at varying elevations such that the flow will cascade from the
first pond to the last pond depending on the water level of the pond (Pond 1 is the
highest elevation and Pond 6 is the lowest elevation). When flooding occurs Pond 6 will
receive flood waters first, then Pond 5, etc. Pond 6 previously had a discharge point to
the Feather River, but this discharge point was removed prior to the adoption of Order
R5-2007-0134. However, with the increased discharge to the ponds and the limited use
of the diffuser, the Discharger has become concerned about unregulated discharges
from the ponds if the ponds exceed their capacity, which may occur during and following
large storm events. Therefore, this Order requires the Discharger to disinfect the
effluent before discharging to the ponds, and seasonally prohibits discharges to
Discharge Point No. 003.
In October 2011, the Feather River at Shanghai Falls eroded to form a new path for
water. At flows less than approximately 4,650 cubic feet per second (cfs), the diffuser is
not submerged. In January 2012, the Feather River scoured around the effluent line to
the disposal ponds causing a pipeline failure. The Discharger completed construction of
a new line below the channel bottom to restore flow to the ponds in May 2012. In order
to ensure that discharges to the Feather River via the diffuser at Discharge Point No.
001 receive adequate dilution, this Order prohibits discharges at Discharge Point No.
001 when the depth of water over the diffuser is less than 0.8 feet, which corresponds to
a receiving water flow of 6,500 cfs. When the depth of water over the diffuser is less
than 0.8 feet, the Discharger must discharge to the disposal ponds at Discharge Point
No. 002.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 7-010-001, T15N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 75]
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER R5-2013-0094
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079260
2. Treated municipal and industrial wastewater from the Facility is discharged at
Discharge Point No. 001 to the Feather River, a water of the United States at a point
latitude 39° 05’ 48” N and longitude 121° 35’ 45” W. According to the mixing zone
analysis provided as part of the previous Order, the multi-port diffuser is located
160 feet from the bank of the Feather River. The diffuser consists of 40 ports each
of 3 inches in diameter, located 4 feet on center. The total diffuser length is
156 feet.
3. The wastewater may also be discharged to one of six disposal ponds located within
the floodplain of the Feather River to the Feather River at a point Latitude
39º 05’ 00” N and longitude 121º 35’ 53” W at Discharge Point No. 002.
4. The wastewater may also be discharged out of pond 6 if all six ponds reach
maximum capacity between the dates of 1 October to 31 May. The discharge
location is from a spill way located in the southern levee wall of pond 6 within the
floodplain of the Feather River to the Feather River at a point Latitude 39º 04’ 24” N
and longitude 121º 36’ 06” W at Discharge Point No. 003.
C. Summary of Previous Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R5-2007-0134-01 for discharges from Discharge
Point No. 001 (Monitoring Location EFF-001) and representative monitoring data fro

===PLANNED CHANGES===

