[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Delleker and serves a population
of approximately 650. A portion of the Facility’s influent historically came from local septic tank
pumpers, but the Discharger stopped collecting septage since 2013. The Discharger collects
septage supernatant piped directly to the Facility from Plumas Sanitation at a rate of about
200,000 gallons per month until 2025 when their current agreement expires. The design average
dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 0.10 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks distribution box, five unlined
facultative treatment ponds, chlorination with liquid chlorine, and dechlorination. Aeration is
achieved using a 5-horsepower vertical aerator, which is operated on a timer.
During periods in which discharge to receiving waters is prohibited, wastewater is held in the
unlined ponds and allowed to either percolate or evaporate. Wastewater is only discharged
from the Facility when there is not enough storage within the pond system, which typically
occurs because of heavy influent flow caused by inflow and infiltration (I/I).
Biosolids are collected from all ponds as needed to maintain the Facility operation and
allowed to dry on site. Dried biosolids are sampled and used on site or hauled to a permitted
landfill. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 3, T22N, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 63]
GRIZZLY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER R5-2019-0052
DELLEKER WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. C

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger received $500,000 in grant funding in 2018 to complete unfinished studies
required by Order R5-2012-0046, prepare a Preliminary Engineering Report (PER) to assess
alternatives for Facility upgrades, and apply for construction funding to achieve compliance
with current and future NPDES requirements. Based on discussions between the Discharger
and Central Valley Water Board staff, the alternatives to be considered in the PER include
Facility upgrades to line ponds and improve aeration, collection system improvements, and
feasibility of regionalization with the City of Portola Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP),
which is located 1,000 feet downstream of Discharge Point 001.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR