[Page 2]
11. The design firm responsible for the existing 6-mgd design, Carollo Engineers, Inc., asserts that
a comprehensive review of the process biology was not possible during preparation of the
Domestic Plant Design Report because the Domestic Plant was not operating in a full
denitrification mode at the time of the assessment. The nitrogen removal treatment
deficiencies noted in the Domestic Plant Design Report may be overstated, given that the
average Domestic Plant effluent total nitrogen concentration was 7.6 mg/L in 2012 while the
average flow was 4.9 mgd and the City reportedly used no more than two thirds of the
available aeration capacity at any time.
12. The Domestic Plant Design Report recommends that the Discharger implement a Modified
Ludzack-Ettinger activated sludge system. The Modified Ludzack-Ettinger would make use of
the existing treatment units, though it would still require significant changes to the Plant at an
estimated cost of $31 million for the 6.0-mgd design or $46.5 million for the 8-mgd design.
The report also recommends upgraded headworks and removal of the biofiltration unit, which
is potentially counterproductive in terms of nitrogen removal.
13. The City issued a request for proposals on the upgrade project, which was divided into three
phases. The City approved funds for the first phase, which was for upgraded headworks. The
new headworks at the Domestic Plant, implemented on 16 December 2011, includes
mechanical screens and grit removal for up to 8 mgd, with a wastewater transfer system that
allows metered diversion of Domestic Plant influent to the Industrial Plant. Contingent upon
the results of the technical reports required by Provision I.14 and I.15 of this Order, the
Domestic Plant may need to be upgraded to consistently achieve its design effluent total
nitrogen concentrations. In the meantime, the City intends to postpone capital expenditures
for Domestic Plant upgrades by using the available treatment capacity of the Industrial Plant to
treat excess Domestic Plant influent.
14. The Discharger’s self-monitoring reports characterize the annual average Domestic Plant
effluent in recent years as fo

[Page 3]
20. The Industrial Plant consists of: headworks with screening and grit removal; fats, oils, and
grease (FOG) removal by dissolved air flotation (DAF); anaerobic digestion in the bulk volume
fermenter (Fermenter); about 26 million gallons of flow equalization in five aerated basins; six
sequencing batch reactors (SBRs); six denitrifying filters; two DAF units for thickening solids
generated in the SBRs; three anaerobic digesters; and approximately 25 acres of sludge
drying beds. Attachments B and D, a part of this Order, depict a partial plan view of the
WWTF and a process flow diagram for the Industrial Plant, respectively.
21. Consistent with the time schedule for compliance in the 2002 CDO, the Discharger completed
improvements to the Industrial Plant in November 2009. Until that time, the Industrial Plant did
not consistently remove sufficient BOD to comply wit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

