[Page 2]
13. Wastewater generated by the truck wash is pretreated before being discharged to the
wastewater treatment system. The treatment includes an oil and sand gravity
separator, a dissolved air floatation tank, and dual media filters with disposable oil-
absorbent anthracite-bentonite media. A portion of the treated wastewater is recycled
back to the truck wash feed water. Solids generated in the treatment process are
disposed of off-site and the media in the filters is changed approximately once a year.
A pretreatment schematic is presented on Attachment C1, which is attached hereto and
made part of the Order by reference.
14. A summary of annual average wastewater quality from the truck wash pretreatment
system is presented below:
Constituent Units 2005 2006 2007
pH std. 7.8 7.8 7.6
EC umhos/cm 508 916 6

[Page 3]
16. According to the RWD, the system will treat 10,000 gallons of total wastewater flow.
The RWD included a water balance that showed disposal capacity for 10,000 gpd
during the 100-year return annual precipitation. The water balance reflects the low
infiltration rate of the site soils.
17. A wastewater treatment schematic is presented on Attachment C2, which is attached
hereto and made part of the Order by reference.
18. Septage from the septic tank and solids from the truck wash facility will be periodically
pumped and disposed of by a licensed septage hauler.
19. The new treatment equipment will be constructed on top of a berm that surrounds the
property. If the surrounding area becomes flooded, reduced disposal via the percolation
ponds would be expected. Based on the forecast elevation of flood water, the ponds
will not be inundated.
Wastewater Collection System
20. A sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the treatment
facility. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water
from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility.
Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated
impoundments, tanks, etc.) may be part of a sanitar

===PLANNED CHANGES===

