[Page 65]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Modesto, the community of Empire, and
a portion of the City of Ceres and serves a population of approximately 256,000. The Facility’s
current design daily average flow capacity for tertiary treated wastewater is 14.9 MGD, with plans
to expand the capacity to 19.1 MGD. In addition to domestic wastewater, the Discharger operates
a pretreatment program that encompasses 30 non-categorical significant industrial users (SIU’s)
and five categorical industrial users (CIU’s). The Discharger’s collection system consists of
approximately 670 miles of sewer lines, which collect and convey an average influent flow of
20.9 MGD to the Facility.
The Facility consists of separate primary and tertiary treatment facilities. The primary treatment
facility, located at 1221 Sutter Avenue, provides primary treatment of the raw wastewater before
transferring the treated effluent to the tertiary treatment facility, located approximately 6.5 miles to
the southwest at 7007 Jennings Road.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of two separate primary and secondary
treatment facilities. The primary treatment plant consists of screening, grit removal, and
primary clarification. Sludge from the clarifiers is transferred to thickeners, then processed
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 66]
CITY OF MODESTO ORDER R5-2017-0064
WATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079103
and stabilized through anaerobic digesters. Digested sludge is transferred to holding tanks
where it is periodically drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant flows routed to the
septage disposal station for blending with influent wastewater. The Discharger applies the
stabilized sludge as a soil amendment on their 2,526-acre ranch, which is regulated by
separate WDR Order 94 030.
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the Jennings Road secondary/tertiary
treatment facility where the wastewater receives secondary treatment for irrigation of pasture
land or receives tertiary filtration and ultra violet light disinfection for discharge to the San
Joaquin River. For the secondary treatment system, approximately half of the primary
effluent receives treatment with fixed film reactors and then is combined with primary effluent
in an aerated recirculation channel. Flow in the recirculation channel is then distributed to
three parallel facultative ponds for further treatment, and then transferred to one of two
storage ponds before being applied to the Discharger’s 2,526-acre ranch at agronomic rates.
The Facility’s tertiary treatment facility consists of two parallel two-step membrane bioreactor
(MBR) facilities. The Phase 1A facility consists of an oxidation ditch that provides activated
sludge biological treatment, reducing biochemical oxygen demand (BOD ) and providing
5
nitrogen removal (i.e., nitrification/denitrification). The oxidation ditch is followed by
membrane filtration and ultraviolet light (UV) radiation that disinfects the filtered wastewater
prior to storage or discharge. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment facilities
(2.3 MGD) was completed on 1 July 2010. The Phase 2 facility consists of aeration basins for
activated sludge biological treatment followed by membrane filtration and UV disinfection.
The Phase 2 facility provides a tertiary treatment capacity of 12.6 MGD, and was completed
in the spring of 2017. The current total tertiary filtration average dry weather flow capacity is
14.9 MGD. The Discharger previously conducted an antidegradation analysis for the full
build-out and requested approval for the full Phase 3 build-out discharge of 19.1 MGD.
Phases 4 and 5 are planned for t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of upgrading and expanding the Facility’s two-step MBR
process that includes an aerated activated sludge process and a membrane separation
process. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment facilities (2.3 MGD) was completed
on 1 July 2010. Phase 2, which expanded the tertiary treatment capacity of the Facility to
14.9 MGD, was completed in July 2015 and commissioning was completed in the spring of
2017. Phase 3 would increase the tertiary treatment capacity to 19.1 MGD, and full build-out
(Phases 4 and 5) would inc