[Page 71]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger currently provides sewerage service for the community of Lincoln in
Placer County, and serves a population of approximately 35,000. The Facility design
daily average flow capacity is 4.2 mgd. Expansions of plant capacity during the life of this
Permit may allow discharges up to 8.4 mgd (or less). Tertiary treated municipal
wastewater is discharged to Auburn Ravine Creek, which is tributary to East Side Canal,
Cross Canal, and the Sacramento River.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Discharger owns, and ECO:LOGIC Consulting Engineers operates, the municipal
wastewater treatment facility, under contract with the Discharger. The Discharger is in
the process of dismantling and decommissioning the old treatment and land disposal
system. Currently, all wastewater is treated at the existing facility and disposed to
Auburn Ravine under the existing NPDES Permit. The existing facility is designed to
treat an average daily dry weather flow of 4.2 mgd. The treatment system includes an
influent pump station, flow measurement, and fine screening. Activated sludge
oxidation ditches (nitrification and de-nitrification), secondary clarifiers, and a return
activated sludge (RAS) system provide secondary treatment. Priority pollutant
equalization basins (maturation ponds), dissolved air flotation (DAF), chemical
coagulation, rapid mix flocculation, and granular medium filtration provide tertiary
treatment. Disinfection is provided by ultra violet (UV) light. The facility also includes
tertiary storage basins and an emergency storage basin. The equalization basins
provide additional removal of priority pollutants, primarily metals and pesticides. The
tertiary effluent storage basins allow the Discharger to transfer flow from surface water
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 72]
CITY OF LINCOLN ORDER NO. R5-2008-0156
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084476
discharge to the storage basins in order to (1) not exacerbate downstream flooding
and (2) avoid causing adverse impacts to the environment. The Facility discharge
capacity is 12.2 mgd and discharge to Auburn Ravine Creek from the storage basins
typically exceeds the treatment capacity of 4.2 mgd. Treated tertiary wastewater is
discharged to Auburn Ravine Creek. Solids handling facilities include an aerated
holding tank, dewatering by centrifuge, storage, and disposal at a landfill and via
contract disposal and recycling.
Several tertiary treatment standards must be met in the clearwell, after granular
medium filtration, to comply with the California Department of Public Health (DPH)
standards for tertiary treated wastewater, rather than at the discharge point, where the
Federal Clean Water Act requires the effluent to meet secondary treatment standards.
Storage in the tertiary storage basins may result in growth of algae, regrowth of
microorganisms, and re-suspension of silts and sediments. When the tertiary treated
wastewater, which has already achieved compliance with DPH standards, is removed
from the storage basins for discharge to Auburn Ravine Creek, the wastewater may
no longer meet the tertiary definitions for BOD , TSS, and t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

