[Page 0]
7. Construction of the expanded WWTF was completed in November 2009. The expanded
WWTF consists of headworks, two oxidation ditches, one anoxic basin, four secondary
clarifiers, three return sludge holding tanks, and three centrifuges. Undisinfected
secondary effluent is discharged to six percolation ponds adjacent to the Kings River
(approximately 36 acres of percolation ponds). A site map of the WWTF is shown on
Attachment A and a process flow schematic is shown on Attachment B, both of which
are attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2010-0120 -2-
CITY OF REEDLEY
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
8. A water balance included in the September 2007 RWD calculated, based on a 100-year
wet year, the storage/disposal capacity of the percolation ponds assuming all the
percolation ponds would be in use at the same time, not accounting for instances when
a percolation pond might need to be taken out of service for maintenance and/or repairs.
The water balance indicated the 36 acres of percolation available at the time would
provide enough storage/disposal capacity for a discharge flow of 4.69 mgd. The City
reconfigured its ponds and submitted a revised water balance in April 2009 shows that
the capacity of its now existing 37.46 acres of ponds is 5.0 mgd. The revised water
balance does not account for instances when percolation ponds are out of service for
maintenance or, as discussed in more detail in Finding 36 below, when Ponds 4 and 5
are out of service due to high river flows. Therefore, this Order limits the discharge flow
to 4.69 mgd and includes a provision requiring the Discharger to demonstrate the
WWTF has sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity before the discharge
flow limit can be increased to 5.0 mgd.
9. Based on data contained in the City’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from
January 2008 throu

[Page 2]
11. Treated wastewater consistently meets the monthly average BOD and TSS effluent
limits of 40 mg/L established in WDRs Order No. 5-01-257. The average effluent total
nitrogen concentration is approximately the same numerical value as the Maximum
Contaminant Level (MCL) of 10 mg/L for nitrate as nitrogen (hereafter “nitrate (as N)”) in
Title 22, California Code of Regulations (CCR), section 64431. Given nitrogen losses in
the percolation ponds and as the effluent percolates to groundwater, the nitrate (as N)
concentration in groundwater will not exceed the MCL.
Sludge Management and Disposal
12. Sludge as used herein means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues generated during
the treatment of industrial and domestic sewage in a municipal WWTF. Sludge includes
solids removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment
processes, but no grit or screening material generated during preliminary treatment.
13. Historically, sludge handling practices included discharging sludge to unlined sludge
drying beds; a practice that was conducted for over twenty years and has adversely
impacted shallow groundwater. In August 2001, the Discharger submitted a technical
report, Groundwater Assessment Wastewater Treatment Facility (GWA). The GWA
report evaluated existing groundwater monitoring data from 1999 and 2000 quarterly
monitoring reports. The average nitrate (as N) concentrations in MW-1, MW-2, MW-3

[Page 3]
19. Guardian Industries Corp., is a mirror manufacturing facility that is a CIU. Wastewater
produced at this facility includes mirror process wastewater, hot wash from the
laminating process, and glass-edging process wastewater. Pretreatment consists of
cerium settling through small tubs and silver recovery unit utilizing ultrafiltration.
Sanitary Sewer Overflows
20. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from
the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary
storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks,
highlines, etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities
are not considered san

===PLANNED CHANGES===

