[Page 96]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Stockton, Port of Stockton, and
surrounding unincorporated areas of San Joaquin County, and serves a population of
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 97]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2020-0007
REGIONAL WASTEWATER CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0079138
approximately 350,000. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 55
MGD. The Discharger’s service area encompasses over 116,000 sewer connections and
approximately 900 miles of sanitary sewer lines. Sources of wastewater in the service
area are primarily domestic, but also include both commercial and industrial connections.
The Facility is situated on both the eastern and western banks of the San Joaquin River
and is connected via a bridge over the receiving water. The Facility consists of primary
treatment, secondary treatment, and sludge processing facilities east of the San Joaquin
River. Wastewater is then routed across the San Joaquin River for further secondary
treatment through facultative ponds and constructed wetlands, followed by tertiary
treatment and disinfection facilities.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Existing Facility. The treatment system in the section of the Facility east of the
San Joaquin River includes screening, grit removal, raw sewage pumps, and
primary sedimentation, where settling is enhanced. After wastewater passes
through the primary clarifiers, it is pumped to a biotower treatment process and
further routed to secondary clarifiers. Effluent from the secondary clarifiers is
pumped from the east section of the Facility beneath the San Joaquin River to
the facultative pond system. Additional secondary treatment and water storage
is available in the facultative ponds. Additional treatment is also available
through engineered treatment wetlands on the west side of the San Joaquin
River. Treatment through the facultative ponds and/or constructed wetlands are
optional flow paths dependent on a variety of operational factors. Effluent from
the facultative ponds, constructed wetlands, or diversion structures (as
applicable) is routed to the Facility’s tertiary treatment system.
Tertiary treatment consists of a nitrifying biotower for ammonia removal,
followed by dissolved air floatation units, where removal efficiencies are
enhanced through chemical addition. Following the dissolved air floatation
units, wastewater is routed through dual media tertiary filters and disinfected
using chlorination/dichlorination prior to discharge to the San Joaquin River.
The tertiary treatment process at the Facility is less efficient during colder
months, as longer detention times in the facultative ponds and constructed
wetlands results in cooler wastewater inflow to the nitrifying biotowers.
Within the east section of the Facility, solids from the primary and secondary
sedimentation processes are either routed to gravity thickeners, gravity belt
thickeners, or pumped to the anaerobic digesters directly. Following anaerobic
digestion, sludge is routed to a holding tank. Digested solids are further
conditioned and dewatered using belt filter presses. Dewatered solids are
hauled off-site by a private contractor and routinely recycled on agricultural
lands as a source of nutrients and soil amendment. In an emergency, solids
can be used as daily cover for solid waste at a landfill. The Facility produces
approximately 4,017 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 98]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2020-0007
REGIONAL WASTEWATER CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0079138
and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R.
part 503.
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility
will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this Order
consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The Discharger has
initiated its Facility Modifications Project to increase the reliability and efficiency
of the wastewater and solids treatment systems, improve the treatment
processes based on existing and projected flows, and reduce nitrate plus nitrite
(as N) concentrations in the final effluent. The existing Facility will remain in
operation during the rehabilitation and construction phase of the Facility
Modifications Project.
The modifications include upgrades and/or additions to the following unit
processes: headworks, grit removal, primary clarification, secondary treatment,
tertiary treatment, UV disinfection, solids handling, chemical addition, flow
diversion and storage, and personnel buildings. Figure C-2 illustrates the
process flow diagram of the Discharger’s proposed modifications that were
considered for the Facility modifications project. The upgraded Facility
treatment includes fine screening, grit removal, primary clarification, activated
sludge with nutrient removal, secondary clarification, tertiary filtration with disk
filters, and UV disinfection. Solids treatment include primary sludge thickening
in the primary clarifiers with primary sludge pumping, gravity thickening of
primary sludge, gravity belt thickening of waste activated sludge, anaerobic
digestion, digested sludge holding, centrifuge dewatering with belt filter press
backup and on-site storage and hauling of dewatered cake.
The modifications will not involve further expansion of the Facility’s design
treatment capacity. All treatment will be processed at the main plant on the east
side of the San Joaquin River. An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the
Facility Modifications Project was certified on 26 March 2019 and construction
activities began in August

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of completing Facility upgrades to increase the
reliability of the liquid and solids treatment processes, improve reliability in treating
existing and projected flows, reduce energy costs and provide reliable renewable
energy alternative, and reduce nitrate plus nitrite concentrations in the final effluent.
The specific objectives of the upgrades project are to:
1. Replace or rehabilitate aging treatment facilities thereby extending the useful
life of the Facility;
2. Reduce or eliminate unnecessary treatment processes to enhance operations;
3. Comply with final effluent limitations;
4. Improve working conditions and operations support facilities for increased
efficiency;
5. Improve energy efficiency and reduce reliance on the external energy
providers; and
6. Implement a project that reflects the Discharger’s priorities and funding
capacity.
The Facility modifications consist of demolition of certain treatment process
components and buildings, rehabilitation and repurposing of some existing
components and buildings, and construction of new treatment process components
and buildings. The existing Facility will remain in operation during construction of
new and rehabilitated facilities to ensure continual wastewater treatment services.
The upgrades do not involve an expansion of the current Facility’s treatment
capacity. Construction and commissioning of the Facility modifications are planned
to be completed prior to 1 June 2024.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS