[Page 105]
0003. A separate industrial line accepts food processing wastewater seasonally from
Eckert Cold Storage from about May through November. Eckert Cold Storage processes
frozen vegetables (e.g., cabbage and a variety of peppers), and discharges primarily
wastewater from the cutting and washing of these vegetables. At times, the food
processing wastewater is mixed with wastewaters from clean-up of the processing
equipment, freezer defrost waters, and cooling towers. The food processing wastewater
is stored and aerated in a lined pond, and then applied to agricultural fields when needed.
Use of land disposal onto agricultural fields is being phased out as the City is using more
of its land for commercial development.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow capacity of 9.87 MGD and its
treatment process is divided into two parallel treatment systems, the north and south
treatment systems. Primary treatment is identical in both systems and consists of
mechanical screening, aerated grit removal, and primary sedimentation. At the north
plant, the primary effluent may undergo additional treatment through two biotowers
with high-rate plastic media (currently out of service). The secondary treatment
processes for both treatment systems are the same, consisting of conventional
activated sludge, including nitrification-denitrification, followed by secondary
sedimentation. Grit and screenings are hauled offsite to a landfill for disposal.
Undisinfected secondary effluent is either stored for agricultural use in a 15-million-
gallon pond or blended with treated food processing wastewater and applied directly
to agricultural fields. The agricultural fields are used to grow crops for dairy feed.
The land application area consists of 10 fields located on land owned by the City
(Fields 2 through 11 – Field 7 is out of service and Field 10 was sold in mid-2018).
The City-owned agricultural fields total approximately 167 acres surrounding the
Facility.
Tailwater from the irrigation fields percolates into the soil or is recirculated into the
irrigation system. Tailwater from Fields 2, 4, and a small portion of 5, is collected in

[Page 105]
Facility.
Tailwater from the irrigation fields percolates into the soil or is recirculated into the
irrigation system. Tailwater from Fields 2, 4, and a small portion of 5, is collected in a
sump and pumped back to the irrigation supply system. Most of Field 5 is currently
used as a storm water drainage basin. Tailwater from Field 3 drains to a sump and
pumped into the pond for irrigation. Tailwater from Fields 6 and 9E percolates into
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 5
[Page 106]
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER R5-2021-0003
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0081558
the soil. Tailwater from Field 9W drains to adjacent unused land that does not
contain an outlet.
Secondary effluent in excess of crop demands undergoes tertiary treatment through
rapid mixing, flocculation, cloth media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The
disinfected tertiary recycled water is pumped from the Facility to its Truck Fill Station,
located at the entrance of the Facility. The Truck Fill Station provides access for
construction vehicles and vactor trucks to receive recycled water for construction
and sewer cleaning purposes. The City also has one recycled water user, the Great
Wolf Lodge where water is sent for landscape irriga

[Page 106]
Wolf Lodge where water is sent for landscape irrigation. Remaining disinfected
tertiary level treated effluent is discharged year-round to the San Joaquin River
through a 36-inch diameter pipe.
Sludge removed from primary sedimentation is pumped directly to anaerobic
digesters while sludge from secondary sedimentation is thickened by dissolved air
flotation and then pumped to anaerobic digesters. After digestion, the treated sludge
is dewatered by centrifuge. Dried biosolids, grit, and screenings are hauled offsite to
a privately-owned landfill for disposal.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 4, T2S, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the San
Joaquin River, a water of the United States within the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta at a point latitude 37° 46’ 45” N and longitude 121° 18’ 0” W.
C. Summary

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Facility Upgrades. The City is not currently planning to expand the Facility
from 9.87 MGD to 17.5 MGD during the term of this Order. The Facility
currently nitrifies and denitrifies tertiary-level treated effluent. The City prepared
and submitted for public review a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) that
addressed the expansion project. The increased discharge will be primarily for
effluent discharges to the San Joaquin River because the City determined that
it’s impracticable to acquire additional