[Page 58]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the northwest portion of the City of Roseville,
portions of Placer County, and the South Placer Municipal Utilities District and serves a population
of approximately 102,000 and nine of the City’s 10 significant industrial users. The Discharger
owns and operates portions of the wastewater collection system. Placer County and the South
Placer Municipal Utilities District own and operate the remaining portions of the collection system.
The current design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 12 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility includes preliminary treatment (two bar screen and four
aerated grit chambers), secondary treatment (three oxidation ditches and four secondary
clarifiers), and tertiary treatment (six sand filters, three equipped ultraviolet light [UV]
disinfection channels). A fourth UV disinfection channel is present but not equipped until the
Facility is expanded.
As a condition of the approval under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for the
construction of the Facility, effluent storage was required as a mitigation measure to reduce
the potential for downstream flooding of Pleasant Grove Creek due to discharges from the
Facility. The Facility includes three storage basins

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning an upgrade and expansion to the Facility to accommodate
anticipated development in the service area, which will be scheduled as needed based on
growth and flow projections. The upgrade and expansion will increase the design treatment
capacity from 12 MGD to 15 MGD and will include new primary clarifiers, possible expansion
of secondary treatment processes including the addition of a new oxidation ditch and
secondary clarifier, expansion of the solids handling facilities, and addition of anaerobic
digesters.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to section 402 of
the federal Clean Water Ac