[Page 79]
Existing Plant – 1.8 million gallons per day (MGD)
Facility Permitted Flow Upgraded Plant – 5.0 MGD
Upgraded and Regionalized Plant – 6.7 MGD
Existing Plant – 1.8 MGD
Facility Design Flow Upgraded Plant – 5.0 MGD
Upgraded and Regionalized Plant – 6.7 MGD
Watershed Lower Feather
Receiving Water Feather River
Receiving Water Type Inland Surface Water
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 80]
LINDA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5-2012-0034
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079651
A. Linda County Water District (hereinafter Discharger) is the owner and operator of the
Linda County Wastewater Treatment Plant (hereinafter Facility), a POTW.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in
applicable federal and state laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent
to references to the Discharger herein.
B. The Facility discharges wastewater to the Feather River, a water of the United States,
and is currently regulated by Order No. R5-2006-0096 which was adopted on
22 September 2006, and expired on 11 November 2011. The terms and conditions of
the current Order have been automatically continued and remain in effect until new
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) permit are adopted pursuant to this Order.
C. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge (ROWD) and submitted an application
for renewal of its WDRs and NPDES permit on 11 May 2011. Supplemental information
was requested between 28 July 2011 and 5 August 2011 and received by
9 August 2011. A site visit was conducted on 2 June 2011 to observe operations and
collect additional data to develop permit limitations and conditions.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Linda and portions of
unincorporated Yuba County south of Marysville, and serves a population of approximately
12,000. The current design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 1.8 MGD.
As described further in Section II.A of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is currently
constructing upgrades and expanding the Facility to provide tertiary treatment for a total
design average dry weather flow capacity of 5.0 MGD. The Discharger is also planning a
regionalization project with the City of Marysville that will increase the Facility’s capacity to
accommodate an average dry weather flow of 1.7 MGD from the City of Marysville
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), thus increasing the total average dry weather flow of
the Facility to 6.7 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The existing treatment system at the Facility consists of the headworks, two primary
clarifiers, trickling filter, secondary clarifier, chlorine contact basin, and dechlorination.
The Discharger discharges to land using a series of seven percolation ponds that lie
within the Feather River floodplain. The pond berms have been overtopped during high
river stages four times since the Facility was constructed in 1960, as recently as
January 2006, resulting in wastewater from the ponds being discharged to the Feather
River. The Discharger also maintains a wastewater outfall pipeline terminating on the
bank of the Feather River; however, this outfall is rarely used and was not used during
the term of Order No. R5-2006-0096. Primary and secondary sludge solids removed in
the primary and secondary clarification process are pumped to a high-rate anaerobic
digestion process for organics stabilization and supernatant separation. The stabilized
and thickened sludge is periodically withdrawn and spread over sand drying beds for
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 81]
LINDA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5-2012-0034
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079651
additional dewatering. Once per year, the drying beds are manually cleaned and the
dewatered solids are taken offsite for landfill disposal.
The Discharger is currently upgrading and expanding the Facility to provide tertiary
treatment for up to 5.0 MGD. The upgraded and expanded treatment system will consist
of a headworks, two rectangular primary clarifiers, four air activated sludge basins (that
will provide nitrification and denitrification), two secondary clarifiers, compressible media
filters, chlorine contact basin, and dechlorination. A new rotary drum thickener will be
installed for waste activated sludge and the existing sludge digester system will
continue to be used until its capacity is reached. Digested sludge will be pumped to a
new dewatering system, which will consist of a combination of facultative sludge
lagoons and sludge drying beds.
The Discharger also proposed in the ROWD an increase in effluent flow from the
Facility to accommodate an additional average dry weather flow of 1.7 MGD from the
City of Marysville. The proposed regionalization project would include pumping
screened raw wastewater from the City of Marysville’s existing influent pump station
approximately 3.4 miles through a force main to the primary influent structure of the
Facility. Modifications to the City of Marysville WWTP include the addition of a flow
equalization tank for temporarily holding peak wet weather flows and the addition of an
odor and corrosion control chemical dosing system to inhibit the formation of sulfides in
the force main.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 1, T14N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
2. The Facility is permitted to discharge treated municipal wastewater via Discharge
Point No. 002 to the Feather River, a water of the United States, via evaporation and
percolation ponds within the floodplain at a point latitude 39° 05’ 42” N and longitude
121° 35’ 20” W. Upon completion of the Facility upgrade and expansion project and
any necessary improvements to the existing outfall structure, the Discharger plans to
continue to utilize Ponds 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 only for emergency discharges.
3. The Facility is permitted to discharge treated municipal wastewater via Discharge
Point No. 001 to the Feather River, a water of the United States, via the existing
bank outfall at a point latitude 39° 05’ 42” N and longitude 121° 35’ 32” W upon
completion of the Facility upgrade and expansion project.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Sel

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A, the Discharger is currently constructing upgrades and
expanding the Facility to provide tertiary treatment for an average dry weather flow of
5 MGD. The upgraded and expanded treatment system will consist of a new headworks
facility including screens and pumps; primary treatment in two new rectangular primary
clarifiers; new secondary biological treatment system using an air activated sludge
treatment process to achieve nitrification and denitrification; two new circular secondary
clarifiers; new tertiary treatment system with tertiary filters and chemical addition; and
disinfection and dechlorination system using the facilities at the existing plant. The
upgraded and expanded treatment system is scheduled to be completed and fully
operational by 31 December 2012. Upon completion of the upgrade and expansion
project, the Discharger plans to begin discharging to the Feather River through the
existing side bank outfall at Discharge Point No. 001. The Discharger anticipates that
additional construction/improvements may be necessary for the existing outfall pi