[Page 2]
I. FACILITY INFORMATION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Williams and serves
a population of approximately 5,487. The design average dry weather flow capacity
of the Facility is 0.5 MGD.
The Facility is built to provide protection from a 100-year flood event. The Discharger
noted that the Facility is equipped with a flood lift station adjacent to the re-aeration
basin that is intended to provide added hydraulic pressure during periods of high-
water level (a 100-year storm event) in Salt Creek, when the final effluent cannot
flow by gravity to the outfall in Salt Creek. The 100-year storm event creek level in
Salt Creek is at 76.8 feet. The Facility and pond dikes are around 78 feet or greater,
indicating that the Facility is built above the 100-year storm event elevation.
Tertiary treatment system. The Facility provides nitrification and denitrification for
nitrogen removal and uses tertiary filtration followed by ultraviolet light (UV) for
disinfection. The treatment system at the Facility includes the following:
• headworks with flow meter, mechanically cleaned basket screen, and standby
manual bar screen;
• flow equalization basin – 100 mil (2.54 mm) HDPE-lined;
• biological selector with submerged mixers
• aeration basin with floating diffused air system (three blowers) – 100 mil (2.54 mm)
HDPE-lined;
• secondary clarifier;
• filter feed, return activated sludge, waste activated sludge, scum, and drainage
pump stations;
• cloth media disk filters;
• UV disinfection; and
• re-aeration basin.
The treatment system at the Facility also includes a chemical feed system, storage
for polymer and sodium hypochlorite, a flocculation basin, and a rapid mix basin.
However, the chemical feed system and chemical storage have never been used
and the floc basin and rapid mix basin were only briefly used once in 2023 in an
attempt to address operational issues, but were deemed unsuccessful and have not
been used since.
Solids handling. Sludge is dewatered using a belt filter press. The dewatered
sludge is discharged directly to transfer trucks and hauled offsite by a separate
commercial entity to a solid waste landfill. The former solids drying yard is a
concrete pad with an approximate 3-foot wall on three sides. The former solids
drying yard has a 6-inch drain that returns any water collected on this area back to
the Facility drain pump station. The former solids drying yard is not currently used for
storage of solids, rather it is currently used for storage area for the City’s Public
Works Department and there are no current plans to bring it back into operation as a
solids drying yard. Sludge is not stored anywhere else on-site or anywhere
surrounding the Facility. The sludge accumulated in the ponds from the former pond
treatment system has been removed as of 11 March 2020. Former Pond 1 no longer
exists and Ponds 2, 3, and 4 are only used as emergency storage basins (see
below). The sludge in Ponds 1 and 2 was removed in 2010 by the contractor that
- 3 -
[Page 3]
City of Williams 19 June 2026
Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2023-0025-009
built the existing Facility and hauled to a landfill. The sludge in Pond 3 was removed
by the Discharger and hauled to a landfill in 2017. The sludge in Pond 4 was
removed and stored in Pond 2 in 2019 and subsequently removed from Pond 2 in
2020. The separate Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) Order R5-2026-0803
contains pond decommissioning requirements to ensure and confirm that any
remaining contaminated soil is removed from the ponds.
Emergency storage basins. There are three unlined emergency storage basins
(Ponds 2, 3, and 4) at the Facility that are remnants of the former pond treatment
system used prior to the construction of the current tertiary wastewater treatment
plant. The Facility is on the site of the former Pond 1 which was decommissioned
and regraded to make room for the current Facility. The basins are only used in the
case of plant upset. The basins are not used for diversion of raw influent and are
only used to hold non-compliant treated effluent. If non-compliant treated effluent
wastewater is diverted to the basins, the wastewater is pumped back through the
treatment system to be retreated. If the basins are used, the Discharger uses a
pump to manually pump from each pond into Pond 2 and then pump from Pond 2
into the Equalization Basin. From the Equalization Basin the wastewater is pumped
back to the headworks. The volume of Pond 2 is approximately 4.2 million gallons
(MG) and has a depth of approximately 5 feet while maintaining 2 feet of freeboard.
The volume of Pond 3 is approximately 6.2 MG and has a depth of approximately
8 feet while maintaining 2 feet of freeboard. The volume of Pond 4 is approximately
5.5 MG and has a depth of approximately 8 feet while maintaining 2 feet of
freeboard. Monitoring of any discharges from the basins is covered under MRP
Order R5-2026-0803. There are no stormwater basins at the Facility. Surface runoff
is collected by several drop inlets and diverted offsite of the Facility.
II. RECEIVING WATER BENEFICIAL USES
The Facility discharges from Discha

===PLANNED CHANGES===

