[Page 1]
11. Influent nitrogen concentrations are expected to be consistent with typical domestic wastewater.
The current treatment process does not appear to provide significant nitrogen removal. Relative
to other WWTFs in the Region, effluent is high in total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), which is
indicative of insufficient dissolved oxygen concentrations in the treatment ponds for biological
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014-0163 -3-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
nitrification to occur. The concentration of dissolved oxygen in the treatment ponds depends
primarily on aerator duty cycle.
12. The RWD includes a water balance that indicates the WWTF is capable of accommodating the
design flow of 1.0 mgd, plus seasonal precipitation with a 100-year return period. The
headworks were reportedly designed to accommodate influent flows up to 2.0 mgd.
13. As part of the RWD, the Discharger submitted a geotechnical report characterizing soils
underlying the WWTF. The report presents the results of sieve and hydrometer tests for
samples collected at the depth of pond bottoms, and field percolation rates at the same depths.
Soils in the upper 15 feet were characterized as either sandy or silty clay. Percolation test
results ranged from 28 minutes per inch beneath Pond 1 (PND-001) to 363 minutes per inch
beneath Pond 12 (PND-012) with an average of 87 minutes per inch.
14. The RWD includes a brief description of how future expansion of the RWD to 2.0 mgd could be
accomplished through construction of an additional sludge drying bed and four additional
treatment ponds, adjacent and similar in design to the existing ponds. The Discharger has not
submitted detailed plans for the next phase of proposed expansion, which is not expected to be
necessary within the next ten years.
Biosolids Management
15. WDRs Order 87-012 requires that collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from
liquid wastes shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer. The RWD
describes a plan to remove approximately 8,900 tons of sludge from the previous treatment
ponds, the result of many years of accumulation. The plan was to haul the sludge to the
Synagro West, Inc., facility in Merced County. The record does not include documentation of
final sludge disposal.
16. The existing WWTF incorporates settled sludge collection ports at the bottom of the second and
third treatment ponds, which directs sludge to a clay-lined sludge drying bed. Liquids drained off
the sludge flow to a sump where they are pumped to the WWTF headworks. Dried sludge is
stockpiled in the sludge storage area just west of the drying bed until there is sufficient quantity
to economically remove it (no more than two years, according to the RWD).
17. Based on an addendum to the geotechnical report submitted with the RWD, prepared by John
Minney (GE No. 602), soils underlying the sludge drying bed are approximately 50 percent clay
and are expected to have a permeability less than 10-7 cm/s when compacted. The record
drawings show the subgrade was compacted to 95 percent relative density. The six-inch clay
liner is native soil treated with 5 percent bentonite and compacted to 95 percent relative density.
18. The RWD includes a projected sludge production rate for a WWTF of this particul

===PLANNED CHANGES===

