[Page 73]
E. Planned Changes
In order to comply with effluent limitations for turbidity, nitrates, and total coliform in the
existing NPDES Permit (Amended Order No. 5-01-045) and with the receiving water
temperature limit in the existing Permit and Cease and Desist Order, the Discharger
proposed treatment system improvements. The Facility capacity will remain the same
but treatment processes will be improved. Construction began in March 2006 and
involves new facilities and modification of existing facilities at an approximate cost of
$40 Million. The new treatment system is scheduled to begin discharge by 1 March
2009 and will include primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment processes, and effluent
cooling. The new treatment process will include the following components:
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 74]
CITY OF PLACERVILLE ORDER NO. R5-2008-0053
HANGTOWN CREEK WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0078956
● New headworks with improved grit removal;
● 2 primary clarifiers (renovated and enlarged);
● 6 anoxic selector basins;
● 5 aeration basins (3 existing, 2 new);
● 3 secondary clarifiers (1 existing, 2 new);
● 3 secondary effluent cooling towers;
● 6 tertiary filters (4 existing pressure filters, 2 new gravity filters);
● 1 tertiary filter wet well and 1 filtered effluent storage basin (converted from
existing ballast ponds);
● Ultraviolet disinfection;
● Post-disinfection effluent aeration facilities;
● 2 Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) holding basins (converted from existing aerobic
sludge digesters);
● 1 gravity belt thickener for WAS before conveyance to anaerobic digesters;
● 3 anaerobic digesters (2 renovated, 1 new); and
● 2 belt filter presses (1 existing, 1 new).
It is unknown at this time, whether the Discharger will cease all use of chlorine within the
treatment plant after the Ultraviolet disinfection system replaces the chlorine disinfection
system. Chlorine-related effluent limitations may not be necessary if all chlorine use is
discontinued.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

