[Page 2]
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Auburn and serves a
population of approximately 14,600. The design average dry weather flow capacity
of the Facility is 1.67 million gallons per day (MGD). The current flows for the Facility
are around 1.0 MGD. The Facility provides tertiary treatment with nitrification, partial
denitrification, sand filtration, and UV disinfection. The Facility is contract operated
by Jacobs Engineering.
Treatment System
· A plant headworks with mechanical screening and flow measurement;
· One lined aeration pond and four flow equalization ponds;
· A magnesium-hydroxide feed system to adjust the water’s alkalinity;
· An oxidation ditch providing biological treatment capable of nitrification and
partial denitrification;
· Three circular secondary clarifiers;
· Chemical feed facilities and a flocculation basin;
· Seven deep-bed sand filters; and
· Two UV disinfection channels prior to discharge to Auburn Ravine.
Solids Collection and Disposal
· Sludge pump station (RSPS);
· Waste activated sludge (WAS);
· RAS is pumped from the RSPS back to the oxidation ditch; and
· Belt filter press for dewatering.
Waste sludge from the existing oxidation ditch and secondary clarifiers is sent to the
return sludge pump station (RSPS). Sludge is either recycled within the system as
return activated sludge (RAS) or wasted from the system as waste activated sludge
(WAS). RAS is pumped from the RSPS back to the oxidation ditch. WAS is pumped
to a belt filter press for dewatering. The dewatered sludge is disposed of at a landfill.
Facility Upgrades
In 2019, a fine mechanical screen with smaller openings was added downstream of
the WWTP ponds. As part of that project, the Discharger constructed a magnesium
hydroxide alkalinity feed system to replace the hydrated lime feed system. The
magnesium hydroxide system includes a storage tank with secondary containment
for spill mitigation and chemical metering pumps to drip the slurry into the
headworks. Magnesium hydroxide provides more CaCO equivalent alkalinity on an
3
equal weight basis when compared to lime and is considered nonhazardous and
non-corrosive.
A new oxidation ditch and return activated sludge pump station were constructed
and put online in 2019. The new oxidation ditch (Oxidation Ditch No. 2) uses the
Modified Lutzak Ettinger (MLE) process to degrade organics while also removing
ammonia and nitrate. Oxidation Ditch No. 2 is equipped with two 200-hp vertical
aerators at opposing sides of the ditch with an additional 15-hp vertical shaft mixer
for mixing. The ditch has a capacity of 1.93 MG with an attached 0.6 MG anoxic
zone for denitrification. The new return sludge pump station consists of three
- 3 -
[Page 3]
City of Auburn 22 June 2022
City of Auburn Wastewater Treatment Plant, Auburn R5-2017-0085-021
submersible pumps in parallel with a design peak flow of 4.6 MGD.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades
The Discharger has planned and designed a plant improvement project to replace
aging equipment and improve reliability of the treatment system. The project
consists primarily of the addition of a second waste sludge dewatering press. The
Facility has one belt filter press (BFP) that is approaching its useful life. The BFP will
be used as a backup to a new system. The new system will use a screw press which
requires less energy for similar performance. This project is anticipated to be
completed in August 2022.
II. RECEIVING WATER BENEFICAL USES
The Facility discharges from Discharge Point No. 001 to Auburn Ravine, a water of
the United States and a tributary to East Side Canal, Natomas Cross Canal, and the
Sacramento River within the Auburn Hydrologic Sub-Area of the American River
Hydrologic