[Page 64]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities of Cutler, Orosi, East Orosi, Yettem,
Seville, and Sultana and serves a population of approximately 15,700. The design daily average flow
capacity of the Facility is 2.0 million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of mechanical screens; an influent pump station;
trickling filter treatment train consisting of two primary clarigesters, two trickling filters, and a
recirculation pump station; an oxidation ditch treatment train consisting of an oxidation ditch,
secondary clarifier, and return and waste activated sludge pump stations; an ultraviolet light
disinfection system; an effluent pump system; two unlined treated wastewater ponds; and
cropland for application of treated wastewater. Raw wastewater is split between the trickling
filter treatment train and the oxidation ditch treatment train. The trickling filter treatment train
typically handles a fixed flow of 0.5 MGD, and the oxidation ditch treatment train receives the
remainder. Effluent from the trickling filter treatment train is then sent to the head of the
oxidation ditch treatment train.
Treated wastewater is discharged to any of the following: two unlined wastewater ponds,
cropland, or Sand Creek. The unlined wastewater ponds allow for storage, percolation, and
evaporation of treated effluent and together have a capacity of approximately 21.5 million
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 65]
CUTLER-OROSI JOINT POWERS WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER R5-2018-0011
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081485
gallons. Treated effluent contained in the wastewater ponds can also be discharged to
cropland and Discharge Point 002 (discharge to Sand Creek between 1 November and 30
April). The recycled water use area includes 118.8 acres of cropland (Fields A, B, C, D, and
E) with principal crops of feed grains, green-chopped silage, and sudan grass. The
Discharger currently utilizes only 106 acres of cropland (Fields B, C, D, and E) and may in the
future add approximately 20 additional acres to the irrigated area.
The Facility includes 12 unlined sludge drying beds, four lined sludge drying beds (Deskins;
constructed in 2010), and two unlined sludge lagoons. Dried sludge is hauled off-site for
disposal to a landfill or composting facility. The Discharger intends to utilize only the lined
sludge drying beds, but has in recent years utilized the unlined beds for drying and storage of
excess sludge due to current capacity limitations of the lined sludge drying beds.
If the groundwater elevation is within five feet of the ground surface where wastewater is
applied or within five feet of the bottom of the treated wastewater ponds, or if discharge is to
Sand Creek, the effluent must also be disinfected with ultraviolet light. Section VII.J of this
Order provides a table for determination of which irrigation fields must receive disinfected
wastewater based on the groundwater monitoring results. The direction of groundwater flow
is primarily to the southwest with depth to groundwater approximately 50 to 60 feet below
ground surface.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 19, T16S, R24E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to treated
wastewater ponds and cropland, and ultimately first encountered groundwater in Section
24, T16S, R24E, MDB&M and Discharge Point 002 to Sand Creek, a water of the United
States and a tributary to Cross Creek at a point latitude 36° 31’ 31” N and longitude 119°
18’ 2” W.
3. The cropland at Discharge Point 001 consists of 118.8 acres total planted with fodder,
fiber, and/or seed crops.
4. Groundwater underlying the Facility, treated wastewater ponds, and cropland is in the
Detailed Analysis Unit 239 of the Kings Basin Hydrologic Unit. Groundwater monitoring
in the vicinity indicate good quality groundwater.
5. Sand Creek is an intermittent stream that mainly carries local storm water runoff
southerly to Cottonwood Creek and ultimately Cross Creek. Sand Creek is usually dry
during the summertime and is not used for irrigation deliveries. Maxi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

