[Page 0]
2. The existing secondary wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) provides sewerage service
for about 80 homes in the Brighton Crest development. The secondary WWTF has a
constructed capacity of 0.056 million gallons per day (mgd) and consists of a septic tank
effluent pumping (STEP) system, recirculating sand filter, and two evaporation ponds with
40 mil plastic lining to minimize percolation.
3. In October 2002 the Regional Water Board adopted revised Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 02-193. Order No. 02-193 provided for expansion of
the existing secondary WWTF on an interim basis until a new tertiary WWTF could be
constructed, and allowed for the use disinfected tertiary recycled water for unrestricted
irrigation of lan

[Page 1]
6. For the purposes of this Order, the new tertiary WWTF shall include the wastewater
collection system, the treatment system, effluent storage ponds, recycled water
distribution piping, and land application areas (Use Areas).
7. According to the RWD, the existing secondary WWTF will be replaced with a tertiary
WWTF that will be expanded in phases to a final capacity of 1.07 mgd. The new tertiary
WWTF will consist of headworks, a new secondary treatment process, coagulation/
flocculation, filtration, disinfection, sludge handling facility, an emergency storage basin,
lined effluent storage ponds, and a recycled water irrigation system. Phase 1 of the
tertiary WWTF will have a capacity of 0.2 mgd. Subsequent phases (Phases 2 and 3) will
have capacities of 0.5 mgd and 1.07 mgd, respectively. A system flowchart for the
tertiary WWTF is presented in Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made a part of
this Order by reference. The project will also include dual plumbing to provide for
wa

[Page 1]
9. Influent to the tertiary WWTF will be screened with duplex mechanical fine screens to
remove solids, than stored in an enclosed aerated flow equalization tank. The flow
equalization tank allows wastewater that enters the plant during high flow periods to be
stored for processing when influent flows are reduced. The treatment system will operate
at the average daily flow rate, which will reduce the required downstream treatment
process capacity.
10. The new secondary treatment system will consist of four trickling filters operated in series.
Wastewater will be sprayed over the plastic, cross-flow trickling filter media, where
microorganisms remove organic compounds and convert them to carbon dioxide, water,
and new cells. Prior to final clarification, a coagulant (polyaluminum hydroxychloride or
aluminum chlorohydrate) will be added to the effluent to agglomerate fine particulates into
larger particles to be removed during filtering.
11. The clarified effluent will be filtered using duplex sand filters to remove fine suspended
solids remaining in the wastewater after clarification. The filters will be backwashed to
flush out solids collected on the filter media. The backwash water will be returned to the
treatment system at the flow equalization tank.
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2008-0127 -3-
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 34
MILLERTON NEW TOWN WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
12. Following filtration, the treated effluent will be disinfected using a duplex feed system to
pump a 12.5% solution of liquid sodium hypochlorite into the filtered effluent prior to
discharge to the chlorine contact chamber. The system will provide for sufficient
detention time to ensure a modal contact time of 90 minutes as required by Title 22.
13. Following treatment and disinfection the tertiary treated effluent will be discharged into
lined effluent storage ponds with a permeability less than 10-7 cm/sec, prior to irrigation of
the landscaped Use Areas. The ponds will serve as source water for the irrigation
pumping station that pressurizes the recycled water distribution system and provide
storage during the winter months when irrigation is not needed due to rainfall or saturated
soils. The RWD estimates that the required effluent storage capacity at build out would
be about 368 acre-feet to provide for over 60 days of storage.
14. The WWTF currently has three ponds for effluent storage; a lined emergency storage
pond (Pond 1), and two evaporation ponds (Ponds 2 and 3). The two evaporation ponds
were constructed to store treated effluent from the secondary WWTF. To minimize
percolation the ponds were lined with a 40 mil plastic lining and covered with a layer of
soil to protect the liners from UV radiation. Pond 2 was recently enlarged and
reconditioned with a new high-density polyethylene liner with a permeability less than
10-7 cm/sec to provide for sufficient storage capacity for Phase 1 of the tertiary WWTF.
According to the Discharger, Pond 3 will be abandoned and backfilled when the recycling
operation begins. Current capacity of Pond 2 is 49 acre-feet. Additional effluent storage
ponds will be constructed at selected locations within the Millerton New Town
development to provide for additional storage capacity as the tertiary WWTF expands.
15. The Discharger currently disposes of sludge at the Fresno County landfill and will
continue to do so until the WWTF reaches 0.056 mgd. Once the new tertiary WWTF
goes online, wasted sludge will be pumped to an aerated sludge storage tank for
digestion and initial thickening and trucked off-site for disposal at an approved receiving
facility. Decant water from the sludge storage tanks will be returned to the treatment
system at the headworks. The RWD indicates that in the future, a sludge dewatering unit,
such as a centrifuge, screw, or belt press, will be added when the volume of sludge
increases sufficiently to justify the capital cost and additional labor.
16. The WWTF is designed for continuous, reliable performance with provisions for
component malfunction and primary power outages. These provisions include: a control
system to monitor the status and performance of equipment and instrumentation utilized
in the treatment process; an alarm and automatic dialer system to contact operating
personnel if a problem is detected; all critical mechanical components in the process train
have duplex units or spare parts available for immediate repair (in the event of a
malfunction, the duplex unit will automatically be started by the control system) by-pass of
all unit processes for routine maintenance and repair while maintaining

[Page 4]
25. The discharge area is in an arid climate characterized by hot dry summers and mild
winters. The rainy season generally extends from November through March. Occasional
rains occur during the spring and fall months, but summer months are dry. Average
annual precipitation and evaporation in the discharge area are about 14.3 inches and
79 inches, respectively, according to information published by California Department of
Water Resources (DWR).
26. Topography in the area consists of moderately steep to gently sloping hills. Soils in the
area range from sandy loam to clay underlain by decomposed granite and are generally
of moderate permeability. Soil units are generally thin to moderately thick. The contact
[Page 5]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2008-0127 -6-
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 34
MILLERTON NEW TOWN WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
between soil and the decomposed g

===PLANNED CHANGES===

