[Page 1]
7. Existing WWTF. The WWTF treatment system, as currently permitted, consists of headworks, five
aeration ponds (series) with an overflow pond, a settling pond, a flocculation tank, micro-screens,
two traveling bridge filters (parallel), a chlorination system, three spillage containment ponds
(series), and four evaporation/percolation ponds (storage ponds 1 through 4). The overflow pond
and spillage containment ponds are used for emergency purposes. Storage pond 2 receives filter
backwash water. Attachments B and C, a part of this Order, depict a plan view and process flow
diagram of the WWTF, respectively.
8. Existing Use Area. Up to 3.0 mgd of effluent from the storage ponds may be discharged via
pipelines to the Orange Cove Irrigation District (hereafter District) for distribution in Improvement
Districts 7 and 8. These districts are comprised of all or parts of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23, 24, 25 and
26 of T15S, R24E, MDB&M, and part of Section 19 of T15S, R25E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment E, a part of this Order (District Use Area). The use of recycled water by the District is
regulated by Wastewater Reclamation Requirements (WRRs) Order No. 89-064. Effluent is diluted
with at least three parts irrigation water from the Friant-Kern Canal

[Page 1]
9. Expansion Project. One of the objectives of the Expansion Project is to simplify the treatment
technology. The RWD describes the City’s proposal to replace the current tertiary treatment with
“advanced secondary treatment” of up to an annual average discharge flow of 2.3 mgd. The WWTF’s
existing aerated lagoons will be modified to an activated sludge process that will implement nitrogen
removal. The expansion will also include new headworks, secondary clarifiers, sludge treatment,
storage and handling facilities, necessary treatment improvements to the tertiary system, additional
land for effluent recycling, and an additional effluent storage pond (hereafter storage pond 5).
Attachment D, a part of this Order, depicts a flow diagram of the Expansion Project.
10. City Use Area. As part of the Expansion Project, the City will acquire, as funding allows, a total of
475 acres. The land will be purchased in three phases: phase 1 consisting of 50 acres; phase 2
consisting of 109 acres, 50 acres of which will be used to construct storage pond 5; and phase 3
consisting of 316 acres. Approximately 425 acres (City Use Area) will be irrigated with
undisinfected secondary-treated recycled water to grow alfalfa. The City has already determined the
areas that will be purchased, which are shown on Attachment A. The purchase of the 50-acre parcel
described as phase 1 to the north of the WWTF property is currently pending (identified on
Attachm

[Page 2]
15. Spills. Raw or partially treated wastewater was spilled on four separate occasions during 2002 and
2003 to olive orchards north of the WWTF property. The spills were due, in part, to deferred
maintenance of the headworks and aerated pond berms and valves. The Discharger was issued
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0008 -4-
CITY OF ORANGE COVE WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
NOVs on 19 June 2002 and 25 February 2003 for these spills. Due to the quality of the spilled
wastewater in 2002, the owner of the land was unable to harvest the olives from the trees in the spill
area. In 2002, the Discharger paid the owner of land $

[Page 3]
19. The WWTF has approximately three-quarters of an acre of unlined sludge drying beds, which were
abandoned in 1993. Since 1993, sludge has been allowed to accumulate in the aerated and storage
ponds. The Discharger submitted a Sludge Management Plan, dated August 2003, that characterized
the sludge in the existing aerated and disposal ponds and described sludge management in the
Expansion Project. As part of the Expansion Project, the Discharger will remove sludge from
aeration ponds 1 through 3, and will later remove sludge from aeration ponds 4 and 5 as funding
allows. The Sludge Management Plan does not include a detailed description of how the Discharger
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0008 -5-
CITY OF ORANGE COVE WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
intends to remove, treat (e.g., dewatering methods, etc.), and ultimately dispose of the existing sludge
accumulations (e.g., by permitted land application or landfill).
20. According to the RWD, the Expansion Project includes new sludge treatment, handling and storage
facilities, including a 22,000-square-foot aerobic digester and 25,000 square feet of new sludge
drying beds equipped with double liners, leak detection, and leachate collection systems.
21. The Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System general industrial storm water permit because all storm water runoff from the WWTF
property is diverted into the storage ponds or aeration basins and does not discharge to a water of the
United States.
Recycling
22. Domestic wastewater contains pathogens harmful to humans that are typically measured by means of
total or fecal coliform, as indicator organisms. California Department of Health Services (DHS),
which has primary State-wide responsibility for protecting public health, has established statewide
criteria in Title 22, CCR, §

===PLANNED CHANGES===

