[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of San Andreas in
Calaveras County and serves a population of approximately 2,200 residents with
approximately 1,840 service connections. The design average dry weather flow capacity is
0.4 MGD and the peak wet weather flow capacity is 0.9 MGD. The Facility does not have
any significant industrial users. San Andreas is the county seat of Calaveras County and
experiences a substantial influx in population during the day because of the high school,
government centers, and tourism.
Order No. R5-2003-0151 authorized the discharge of wastewater to San Andreas Creek
and the North Fork Calaveras River. Order No. R5-2003-0151 required that discharges to
San Andreas Creek that do no receive 20:1 dilution as a daily average after 1 April 2006
receive tertiary treatment. Order No. R5-2003-0151 also prohibited the discharge of
secondary treated wastewater to the North Fork Calaveras River in quantities which do not
receive a minimum of 20:1 dilution as a daily average. During the term of Order No. R5-
2003-0151, the Discharger completed construction of an outfall pipeline to the North Fork
Calaveras River and discontinued the discharge of secondary treated wastewater to San
Andreas Creek as of 30 April 2008.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a grit removal chamber, mechanical
screen (for solids removal), Parshall flume, flow metering, storm flow by-pass device for
diverting excessive storm inflow to the high flow treatment system and storage
reservoir, pre-aeration basin, primary clarifier, re-circulating trickling filter, secondary
clarifier, sodium hypochlorite contact chamber, sodium bisulfite dechlorination unit,
heated unmixed anaerobic digester, sludge drying beds, three post-secondary effluent
polishing ponds, and a 6 million gallon storage reservoir (Pond D). The treatment train is
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 67]
SAN ANDREAS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2009-0007
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079464
designed for 0.4 MGD average dry weather flows and 0.9 MGD peak wet weather flows.
The Discharger’s high flow treatment system allows them to divert effluent to Pond D
and return wastewater for retreatment and discharge when conditions permit. A diesel
power generator is on-site for use in the event of electrical power loss.
The Discharger owns approximately 180 acres of land for disposal which is known as
the Dedicated Land Disposal Area (DLDA). The currently developed portions of the
DLDA consists of 70 acres on which are located Pond D and about 32 acres of effective
land disposal area. In addition to these 70 acres, the DLDA also includes 110 acres of
undeveloped land adjacent to the Facility referred to as the Nielson Property, which the
Discharger purchased in 1992. Of the 110 acres, it is estimated that slightly less than 38
acres is useable disposal area with some provisions for storage on the site. A portion of
the piping for transport of effluent to the Nielson Property has been installed; however,
the Discharger does not plan to develop this portion of the DLDA further until effluent
storage and disposal facilities are found to be needed and the parties needing the
expanded effluent storage and disposal facilities have funded the design and
construction of the facilities.
Disposal of treated wastewater is accomplished exclusively to land from 1 May through
31 October of each year. Treated wastewater is first held in the effluent storage
reservoir, and then pumped to on-site evaporation, transpiration, and percolation
ditches. The disposal ditches have a total length of approximately 2 miles, and vary in
depth from about 1.5 to 3 feet and in width from about 2 to 4 feet. Excess effluent from
the trenches is returned to the storage reservoir via a return ditch. Storm water runoff
from the effluent disposal area is returned to storage when the DLDA is in use. During
the remainder of the year, storm water runoff is not contained. Vegetation control in the
DLDA is accomplished through prescribed burns by the local public fire agency.
From 1 November through 30 April, treated effluent is discharged to the DLDA to the
extent feasible. Treated effluent that cannot be discharged to land is discharged to the
North Fork Calaveras River via a cross river diffuser. Effluent that cannot be applied to
land or discharged to the river is stored in Pond D for subsequent disposal when
conditions permit. If the subsequent discharge is to the North Fork Calaveras River, the
stored effluent is returned to the treatment process for complete retreatment prior to
river discharge. Discharge to surface waters is prohibited during the period of 1 May
through 31 October of each year.
The Discharger treats all primary and secondary sludge in a heated unmixed anaerobic
digester. Drying of digested sludge is accomplished using sand drying beds. Dried
sludge is disposed of at the Calaveras County Landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T4N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B, a part of this Order.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 68]
SAN ANDREAS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2009-0007
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079464
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the North
Fork Calaveras River, a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

