[Page 13]
13173. However, Title 27 exempts certain activities from its provisions.
Discharges regulated by this Order are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to
provisions that exempt domestic sewage, wastewater, and reuse. The
exemption, found at Title 27, section 20090, states in part:
The following activities shall be exempt from the SWRCB-promulgated provisions
of this subdivision, so long as the activity meets, and continues to meet, all
preconditions listed:
(a) Sewage - Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are
regulated by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of this
code, or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with
applicable water quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated
with municipal wastewater treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or
solid waste from wastewater treatment facilities shall be discharged only in
accordance with the applicable SWRCB-promulgated provisions of this division.
[Page 14]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2018-0028 -15-
RIVERDALE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
(b) Wastewater - Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leachfields if the following
conditions are met:
(1) the applicable RWQCB has issued WDRs, reclamation requirements, or
waived such issuance;
(2) the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control
plan; and
(3) the wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste.
59. The discharge authorized herein (except for the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgrades
to the treatment and disposal capacities of the WWTF.
2. The current discharge from the WWTF is regulated by Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDRs) Order 85-252, adopted by the Central Valley Water Board
on 27 September 1985. Order 85-252 allows an average dry weather flow of up to
0.25 million gallons per day (mgd). The District owns and operates the WWTF and
is responsible for compliance with these WDRs.
3. The WWTF is about a mile north of the community of Riverdale, northeast of the
intersection of South Brawley and West Harlan Avenues as shown on
Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
The existing WWTF, percolation/evaporation ponds, and land application areas are
in Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN) 053-090-11. The WWTF is in the northwest
quarter of Section 13, T17S, R19E, MDB&M, of the United States Geological
Service (USGS) Riverdale 7.5 minute topographic map.
4. The Discharger proposes to expand and upgrade the WWTF in two phases to
increase capacity to accommodate the anticipated growth of the community of
Riverdale in t