[Page 91]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities of Cutler, Orosi, East
Orosi, Yettem, Seville, and Sultana and serves a population of approximately 14,700. The
design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 2.0 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of mechanical screens; an influent
pump station; trickling filter treatment train consisting of two primary clarigesters, two
trickling filters, and a recirculation pump station; an oxidation ditch treatment train
consisting of an oxidation ditch, secondary clarifier, and return and waste activated
sludge pump stations; an ultraviolet light disinfection system; an effluent pump
system; two unlined treated wastewater ponds; and the recycled water use area for
application of treated wastewater. The trickling filter treatment train typically handles
a fixed flow of 0.5 MGD, which is then diverted to the oxidation ditch treatment train,
which receives the entire wastewater flow.
Treated wastewater is discharged to any of the following: two unlined treated
wastewater ponds, the recycled water Use Area, or Sand Creek. The unlined treated
wastewater ponds allow for storage, percolation, and evaporation of treated effluent
and together have a capacity of approximately 21.8 million gallons. The Facility also
has the capability to discharge treated effluent contained in the treated wastewater
ponds to the recycled water use area and Discharge Point 002 (discharge to Sand
Creek between 1 November and 30 April).
The recycled water use area includes 117 acres of cropland (Fields A, B, C, D, and
E) with principal crops of feed grains, green-chopped silage, and sudan grass. Field
A has been modified to provide the required setback distance from the off-site
domestic water supply well, and now has a revised useable acreage of
approximately 10.5 acres. The Discharger may in the future add approximately
21.5 additional acres to the irrigated area. The use area is typically double cropped
with winter wheat and summer sudan grass, or similar crops.
The Discharger recently submitted updated water balances on 25 July 2024 that
indicate the Facility is capable of discharging up to 1.16 mgd to the use area under
100-year precipitation without having to utilize Discharge Point 002 to Sand Creek.
The 25 July 2024 submittal was signed and stamped by a professional engineer and
included a thorough water balance discussion, including several different water
balance scenarios that included different flow rates, variations on the number of Use
Area fields utilized, and both average precipitation and 100-year precipitation
projections. The 25 July 2024 water balances differed from the previous submittal,
30 July 2009 Recycled Water Engineering Report, by including (1) increased
percolation rates based on wastewater pond monitoring from 2019 through 2023
and soil maps from the United States Department of Agriculture; (2) increased
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 92]
CUTLER-OROSI JOINT POWERS WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER R5-2025-0013
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0081485
evapotranspiration rates to represent double-cropping of winter wheat and summer
sudan grass; and (3) decreased water needs to account for irrigation
efficiency/leaching. The 25 July 2024 submittal also identified invalid flow data for
Discharge Point 001 based on drift in the flow totalizer. The Discharger identified
drift of 2.9 million gallons recorded while the discharge valve was closed for three
days in June 2023 as an example of the magnitude of the reporting error. The
Discharger has since updated its flow documentation protocol to reduce future drift
errors. Since installation in 2018, the identified errors in the flow totalizer reporting
may have contributed to reports of higher discharge to the Use Area than had
actually occurred.
The Facility includes eight unlined sludge drying beds, four Deskins-lined sludge
drying beds (constructed in 2010), two concrete-lined sludge drying beds
(constructed in 2022), and two unlined sludge lagoons. Dried sludge is hauled off-
site for disposal to a landfill or composting facility. The Discharger intends to utilize
only the lined sludge drying beds, but has in recent years utilized the unlined beds
for drying and storage of excess sludge due to capacity limitations of the lined
sludge drying beds. Construction of the concrete-lined sludge drying beds in 2022 is
expected to eliminate use of unlined surfaces at the current flow rate. The unlined
drying beds and lagoons have not been used since construction was completed in
2022.
If the groundwater elevation is within five feet of the ground surface where
wastewater is applied or within five feet of the bottom of the treated wastewater
ponds, or if discharge is to Sand Creek, the effluent must also be disinfected with
ultraviolet light. Table 7 of this Order provides a table for determination of which
irrigation fields must receive disinfected wastewater based on the groundwater
monitoring results. The direction of groundwater flow is primarily to the southwest
with depth to groundwater typically approximately 70-75 feet below ground surface.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility and Field A of the Use Area is located in section 19, T16S, R25E,
MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order. Fields B, C, D, and E
are located in section 19, T16S, R24E MDB&M.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to treated
wastewater ponds and the Use Area, and ultimately first encountered
groundwater in Section 24, T16S, R24E, MDB&M and Discharge Point 002 to
Sand Creek, a water of the United States and a tributary to Cross Creek at a
point latitude 36° 31’ 23” N and longitude 119° 18’ 2” W.
3. The Use Area at Discharge Point 001 consists of 117 acres total planted with
fodder, fiber, and/or seed crops. Crop patterns vary annually and by field
including the option to double crop with combinations such as winter wheat and a
summer sudan grass.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 93]
CUTLER-OROSI JOINT POWERS WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER R5-2025-0013
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0081485
4. Groundwater underlying the Facility, treated wastewater ponds, and Use Area is
in the Detailed Analysis Unit 239 of the Kings Basin Hydrologic Unit.
Groundwater monitoring in the vicinity indicate generally good quality
groundwater.
5. Sand Creek is an intermittent stream that mainly carries local storm water runoff
southerly to Cottonwood Creek and ultimately Cross Creek. Sand Creek is
usually dry during the summertime and is not used for irrigation delive

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has expressed interest in modifying its sludge handling facilities,
particularly the addition of mechanical sludge dewatering. However, no definitive
plans have been submitted. Section VI.C.2.a of the Order requires the Discharger to
submit a plan for completing its sludge dewatering activities.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean