[Page 62]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for portions of the Copper Cove Community,
located in the southwestern part of Calaveras County. The sewage system has
approximately 1,800 connections and serves a population of around 4,200. The current
design average dry weather flow for the secondary treatment and storage system is
0.35 MGD, and the design treatment capacity of the tertiary treatment system is 0.95 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The secondary treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks and flow
diverter, two aerated ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) operated in parallel, followed by an
additional aerated pond (Pond 4) for settling and polishing, and potassium hypochlorite
disinfection. Pond 3 is currently out of service and Pond 5 is only used for
emergencies. Disinfected, secondary treated wastewater is stored on-site in an unlined
storage reservoir (Pond 6), which may then be land applied via spray irrigation on
CCWD’s 25 acres of spray irrigation fields. The collection system, secondary treatment
and storage facilities, and on-site irrigation are covered under separate WDR Order
R5-2010-0070.
During the summer, typically June through August, wastewater from Pond 6 is further
treated to tertiary levels using tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. The
Title 22 tertiary treated effluent is collected in a reclaimed water storage tank and then
discharged to Pond NC-2D to be used for golf course irrigation or to provide makeup
water for the wetland system.
This Order allows discharges to Pond NC-2D between 1 April and 31 December of each
year. CCWD typically only discharges to Pond NC-2D for 3 months during the summer;
thus, golf course demand for irrigation water usually exceeds the supply of reclaimed
water. When the demand for irrigation water exceeds the supply of recycled water,
CCWD provides raw water from Lake Tulloch, which is piped to the recycled water
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 63]
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF COURSE, L.P. ORDER

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. On 3 December 2012, the Discharger submitted a work plan for the reduction of
chloroform and dichlorobromomethane in the effluent. Initial testing from
March 2011 through May 2011 indicated that the addition of sodium hypochlorite to
Pond 4 effluent prior to entering Pond 6 resulted in increased chloroform and
dichlorobromomethane concentrations. Therefore, the Discharger is conducting a
pilot project to eliminate the formation of chlorine disinfection byproducts. The pilot
project includes modifications to the treatment process to discontinue use of the
chlorine disinfection and divert all flows from Pond 4 to the tertiary treatment facility
to be disinfected using UV disinfection prior to discharge to either Pond 6 or the
SCGC. The pilot project will be conducted during the winter and spring of 2013
under both high and normal operational flows. Based on the results of the pilot
project, the Discharger may design permanent modifications to the Facility to ensure
continuous permit compliance.
2. The Discharger uses a coagulant (polyaluminum chloride) in the tertiary treatment
process prior to filtration to ensure proper operation of the filters, which is a source
of aluminum in the discharge. The Discharger has conducted a study to optimize
the use of alum to reduce effluent aluminum without success and has evaluated
other non-aluminum containing polymers for filtration with limited success. The
Discharger proposes to continue its study to identify non-aluminum polymers to meet
the effluent limitations for aluminum.
3. The Discharger believes that high manganese concentrations in the effluent are due
to storm water runoff into Pond 6. Soils in the area are high in manganese and
manganese is leached from the soils into storm water that then enters the treatment
ponds. The Discharger has proposed to eliminate storm water from entering
treatment and storage ponds in order to meet the effluent limitations for manganese.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in the Findings in section II of this Order. The applicable plans,
policies, and regulations relevant to the discharge include the following:
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9
[Page 68