[Page 64]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Grass Valley and serves
a population of approximately 12,100. The WWTP design daily average flow capacity is
2.78 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Treatment Process
The City of Grass Valley Wastewater Treatment Plant is a tertiary wastewater treatment
plant with a dry weather design capacity of 2.78 mgd. Influent is collected from the City
of Grass Valley through 55 miles sanitary sewer lines. Influent undergoes primary
treatment through bar screens, a grit hydrocyclone, and primary clarification in dual
rectangular sedimentation basins. Wastewater then undergoes activated sludge
treatment through one of two extended aeration basins, which includes nitrification and
denitrification, pH adjustment, dechlorination, re-aeration through a cascade aerator
outfall and stream-side rock pile diffuser prior to discharge.
Solids Handling
Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a landfill. The sludge from the
primary sedimentation basins is pumped to an anaerobic digester. Waste activated
sludge is not directly sent to digestion, but returns in-directly through the primary
sedimentation basins. Digested sludge is decanted in a sludge lagoon prior to
dewatering through a belt filter press. Sludge decant and belt filter press filtrate is
returned to the aeration basins or the storage reservoir. Belt filter press cake is hauled
off-site for disposal via land application by Synagro West LLC at Silva Ranch.
Drew Tunnel
An abandoned mine portal (Drew Tunnel), owned by Newmont USA Limited was
exposed on the City’s property during excavation for the chlorine contact chamber in
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 65]
CITY OF GRASS VALLEY ORDER NO. R5-2009-0067
CITY OF GRASS VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079898
2000. Drainage (0.3-1.0 mgd) has been surfacing from the mine and pumped either to
the aeration basins or to the storage reservoir for treatment prior to discharge into Wolf
Creek.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located on Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN) 29-290-26, T15N, R3E,
MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Wolf Creek, a
water of the United States and a tri

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning to construct major plant improvements to add ultraviolet light
(UV) disinfection and to upgrade the biological nitrogen removal process.
The Discharger is also involved in litigation with Newmont USA Limited regarding
abandoned mine drainage from the Drew Tunnel, which is a source of aluminum and
manganese entering the treatment plant. The Discharger’s ability to comply with
manganese effluent limitations by the 1 March 2010 compliance date in this Order for
manganese depends on timely action by Newmont to participate in the resolution of the
mine discharge. Ongoing litigation may delay the Discharger’s compliance with
manganese final limitations and modification to the March 2010