[Page 71]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Cascade Shores and
serves a population of approximately 200. The WWTP average dry weather flow design
capacity is 0.026 mgd.
A. Description of Existing Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The existing Cascade Shores WWTP, which began operation in 1996, is a tertiary-level
activated sludge package plant. The treatment system consists of communition, a flow
equalization tank, a sludge holding/aerobic digester tank, an aerated activated sludge
tank, a clarifier, dry-weather dual-media filtration, pH adjustment with soda ash, and
chlorination/dechlorination with chlorine and sulfur dioxide gas, respectively. The
current wastewater treatment system is shown in Attachment C-1.
The WWTP is equipped with a surge tank, which provides flow equalization and
pretreatment for the influent. Wastewater enters the tank by gravity and is lifted into the
aeration tank by one of two influent pumps. The pump also serves to grind large
materials prior to secondary treatment. The level of water in the tank is controlled by a
splitter box, which allows a constant flow through a V-notch weir to the aeration tank.
The excess flow is allowed to return to the surge tank over a broad weir. Aeration is
provided in the surge tank to minimize odors. Rocks and heavier items remain at the
bottom of the surge tank and are periodically removed. pH adjustment with soda ash
occurs in the surge tank prior to nitrification in the aerated basin.
The wastewater is pumped from the surge tank into an aerated basin where it is mixed
with return activated sludge. Coarse-bubble diffusers aerate the activated sludge,
returned sludge, and wastewater to keep the mixture in suspension. A dissolved
oxygen concentration of at least 2 mg/L is maintained in the basin. The wastewater
then flows to the clarifier for final settling. Scum is scraped off the clarifier surface and
settled sludge is returned to the aerated basin. A portion of the sludge is wasted to the
aerobic sludge digester. The amount of sludge wasted is determined by measuring the
amount of suspended solids in the aeration tank.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 72]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER NO. R5-2008-0111
CASCADE SHORES WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0083241
After clarification, the wastewater is conveyed through a dual-media filter, which
removes additional suspended solids and reduces turbidity. The existing filters can
treat flow as high as 26,000 gal/d. A portion of the filtered water is collected in a
backwash tank. At the beginning of every backwash cycle, the flow is reversed for
about 5 minutes to “clean” the filter. The backwash water is discharged into the
backwash holding tank and then returns to the beginning of the treatment process for
retreatment. The filter media (anthracite and sand) is backwashed once every 24-hours
or when the filter is clogged.
After filtration, the wastewater enters the chlorine contact chamber for disinfection.
Chlorine gas is dosed such that there is a chlorine residual remaining when the water
flows out of the contact chamber. Sulfur dioxide gas is added in the dechlorination zone
to remove the chlorine residual before discharge of the effluent to Gas Canyon.
Excess sludge from the activated sludge system is wasted to the aerobic digester where
sludge is aerated and further stabilized. The sludge is then removed from the digester
and transported to the Lake Wildwood WWTP where it is eventually dewatered. The
dewatered sludge is then taken off site and landfilled.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 7, T16N, R10E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Gas Canyon
Creek, a water of the United States and a tributary to Bear River via Greenhorn
Creek and Rollins Reservoir at a point Latitude 39o, 15’, 40” N and
lon

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Discharger is proposing to construct a new treatment facility at location away from the
existing facility and landslide threat. (See Attachment C-3, Layouts of Existing and
Proposed Plants). The proposed treatment would be a pre-packaged membrane
bioreactor system (MBR) with an anoxic zone (combined denitrification, nitrification, and
membrane process) and UV disinfection (See Attachment C-2). The proposed facility
would be designed to treat and average flow of 0.026 mgd. It is expected that the
treatment processes and increased removal of suspended solids will reduce
concentrations of constituents in the wastewater effluent. The expected effluent quality
from the MBR system should result in compliance with the final effluent limitations in this
permit for total coliform organisms, ammonia, nitrate, BOD, and TSS. The UV
disinfection will eliminate chlorine use and the byproduct dichlorobromomethane should
no longer be present. Chlorine related effluent limitations would no longer be necessary
if all chlorine use is discontinued. The anoxic zone treatment is expected to reduce
nitrates to levels below the proposed 10 mg/L effluent limit. The effectiveness of the
MBR system to reduce copper and other metals is unknown.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of the Limitations and Discharge Requireme