[Page 71]
HAMMONTON GOLD VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
nearest community to Hammonton Gold Village (approximately 2 miles), are on individual
septic systems.
Wastewater reclamation/reuse may be an option at the local park in the Hammonton Gold
Village community. Due to the small volume of wastewater produced, reuse in the wider
area is not feasible.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
At the time Order R5-2002-0101 was adopted, the treatment system consisted of
preliminary screening, biological treatment in a sequencing batch reactor, clarification,
multi-media filtration, and disinfection by both chlorination and ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection. Order R5-2002-0101 allowed for the year-round discharge of treated
municipal wastewater by spray irrigation of 7.5 acres of land or to Sanford Creek.
Order R5-2002-0101 required upgrades of the treatment system to provide tertiary
treatment by May 2007 for discharges to Sanford Creek.
The new tertiary treatment system completely replaces the previous system that
suffered equipment failure. The new treatment system is designed to meet a tertiary
level of treatment and is a membrane bioreactor package system. The new package
treatment plant was in full operation on 20 July 2010. The treatment system is a
membrane biological reactor (MBR) system capable of treating a maximum of 50,000
gallons per day (0.050 mgd). The treatment system consists of primary screening
using a rotating drum screen; an anaerobic treatment chamber for de-nitrification; an
aerobic treatment chamber for nitrification; microfiltration using a membrane filter; a
9-channel UV Disinfection system; an effluent storage tank for backwashing the
membrane filter; and an irrigation storage pond prior to land discharge. A backup
generator is available for emergency power needs. A lined, impervious emergency
storage basin with a capacity of approximately 300,000 gallons is available for
emergency storage. The plant treats between 12,000 and 15,000 gallons per day and
the tertiary MBR system has a residence time of approximately 17 days. It is not
possible to discharge secondary treated wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

