[Page 84]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for commercial and residential uses within the
City of Manteca and a portion of the City of Lathrop, serving a population of approximately
80,500. The Discharger has an approved EPA pretreatment program that has two non-
categorical significant industrial users and one categorical industrial user. The municipal
wastewater collection system consists of two main lines servicing the City of Manteca that
includes 184 miles of sewer mains with 18 pump stations, and another line servicing the
City of Lathrop that is connected by 27 miles of sewers mains. The collection systems are
regulated under State Water Board Order 2006-003. A separate industrial line accepts
food processing wastewater seasonally from Eckert Cold Storage from about May through
November. Eckert Cold Storage processes frozen vegetables (e.g. cabbage and a variety
of peppers), and discharges primarily wastewaters from the cutting and washing of these
vegetables. However, at times, the food processing wastewater is mixed with wastewaters
from clean-up of the processing equipment, freezer defrost waters, and cooling towers.
The food processing wastewater is stored and aerated in a lined pond at the Facility, and
then applied to agricultural fields when needed.
The Facility occupies approximately 22 acres of the 210 acres owned by the Discharger.
Since adoption of Order No. R5-2004-0028, the Facility has undergone major expansions
and upgrades. In August 2005, the Discharger obtained higher-quality surface water from
South County Water Supply Program to blend with its existing groundwater drinking water
supply to improve its drinking water supply source (e.g. lower salinity). In May 2006,
biological nitrification-denitrification was added to the secondary treatment process. In
September 2007, the City also added a secondary effluent equalization pond, a filter-feed
pump station, coagulation and flocculation facilities, tertiary filters, a chemical storage and
handling facility, an ultraviolet light pathogen deactivation system (UV Disinfection), an
effluent pumping station, a recycled water pumping station, a groundwater well for plant
process water, and a construction truck recycled water filling station. In 2007, the Facility
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 85]
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER NO. R5-2009-0095
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081558
was also modified to fully separate the food-processing waste received from Eckert Cold
Storage to apply directly to agricultural fields.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is currently a 9.87 mgd rated combined biofilter-activated sludge tertiary
treatment plant, and the maximum daily flow rate is about 8.1 mgd. A Facility expansion
to increase capacity to 17.5 mgd is projected during the term of this Order, beginning in
the fourth quarter of 2010 and ending in the second quarter of 2012; a detailed
discussion follows in Section II.E of this Fact Sheet. The Discharger completed an
antidegradation analysis for the expansion, and a detailed discussion is contained in
Section IV.D.4 of this Fact Sheet.
Currently, at the Facility, an influent pump station with two mechanical screens serves
two parallel treatment systems. Primary treatment, which is identical in both systems,
consists of aerated grit removal, and primary sedimentation. Primary effluent
undergoes biological treatment by ultra fine-bubble activated sludge aeration basins,
nitrification and denitrification, and secondary sedimentation at both treatment systems.
However, at the northside treatment system, the primary effluent first undergoes
additional treatment through two biotowers with high-rate plastic media.
Undisinfected secondary effluent is either stored for agricultural use in a 15 million
gallon pond or blended with food processing waste and applied directly to agricultural
fields. The agricultural fields are used to grow crops for dairy feed. The land
application area consists of ten fields located on land owned by the Discharger (Fields 2
though 11 shown in Attachment C-2), plus one field located on property owned by Dutra
Farms, Inc. The Discharger-owned agricultural fields total approximately 190 acres
surrounding the Facility. Dutra Farms, Inc. is named in this Order as the responsible
party for management and operation of it’s 70 acre agricultural field, APN 241-320-47,
where wastewater is also applied.
Tailwater from the fields 2, 4, 5, 10, and Dutra-Farms, Inc. is collected in a sump and
pumped back to the irrigation supply system. Tailwater from field 3 drains to a sump
and pumped into the pond for irrigation. Tailwater from field 6 percolates into the soil.
Tailwater from field 7 drains to field 10. And tailwater from field 9W drains to adjacent
unused land that doesn’t contain an outlet.
Secondary effluent in excess of crop demands undergoes further treatment through
rapid mixing, flocculation, tertiary level using cloth media filtration, and UV Disinfection.
The disinfected tertiary effluent is pumped from The Facility to its Truck Fill Station,
located at the entrance of the Facility. The Truck Fill Station provides access for
construction vehicles to receive recycled water for construction purposes. The
Discharger has plans for additional uses of recycled water (City of Manteca Recycled
Water Master Plan, 2007). Disinfected tertiary level treated effluent is also discharged
to the San Joaquin River through a 36-inch outfall.
Sludge removed from primary sedimentation is pumped directly to anaerobic digesters
while secondary sedimentation is thickened by dissolved air floatation and then pumped
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 86]
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER NO. R5-2009-0095
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081558
to anaerobic digesters. After digestion, the treated sludge is dewatered by centrifuge,
and drying beds. Dried biosolids, grit, and screenings are hauled offsite to a privately-
owned landfill for disposal.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 4, T2S, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
2. Tertiary-level treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001
to San Joaquin River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 37° 46’ 45” N
and longitude 121° 18’ 00” W.
3. The Facility and Discharge Point

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Facility Upgrades. The Discharger is expanding the Facility from the currently
permitted 9.87 mgd to 17.5 mgd. The Discharger currently nitrifies and denitrifies
tertiary-level treated effluent. The Discharger prepared and submitted for public
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
[Page 89]
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER NO. R5-2009-0095
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081558
review a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) in compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) that addressed the expansion project. The
increased discharge