[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Lake Wildwood and
Wildwood Estates Subdivisions and serves a population of approximately 7000. The
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) design average dry weather flow capacity is
1.12 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of preliminary screening, equalization
basin, secondary treatment with anoxic basins, pre-aeration basins, oxidation ditches,
clarification, mixed media filtration, disinfection with chlorine gas, and dechlorination
with sulfur dioxide prior to discharge in Deer Creek. Solid handling processes include
sludge thickening followed by centrifuge dewatering.
The process flow diagram for WWTP is shown in Attachment C. Raw wastewater enters
the plant headwork and is mechanically screened by an auger-type fine screen to
remove coarse solids, such as rags and other objects that could damage downstream
equipment or interfere with treatment. The mechanical fine screen was installed in 2001
and has sufficient capacity to handle peak hourly flows (2.4 mgd). When the
mechanical screen needs to be taken out of service for maintenance, backup screening
is provided by a manually cleaned bar screen. Flow is measured with a Parshall flume
and then diverted to the equalization basin by gravity in a 16-inch sewer.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 67]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO.1 ORDER NO. R5-2009-0004
LAKE WILDWOOD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077828
Wastewater from the equalization basin is pumped into the oxidation ditch flow splitter
box and directed to anoxic basins where nitrate contained in return sludge and mixture
of wastewater and microorganisms is reduced to nitrite and then converted to nitrogen
gas and released to the atmosphere. Wastewater from the anoxic basin is aerated
before going to the oxidation ditches.
The WWTP has two oxidation ditches equipped with two mechanical brush aerators in
each ditch. The oxidation ditches provide extended aeration to activated sludge
secondary treatment. In the oxidation ditches, biologically degradable organics are
metabolized by microorganisms in the presence of oxygen to synthesize more
microorganisms. Microbial metabolism and synthesis removes soluble BOD from the
wastewater. The brush aerators provide oxygen to the wastewater and keep the ditch
contents thoroughly mixed so that the microorganisms do not settle to the bottom of the
ditch.
From the oxidation ditches, this mixture of wastewater and microorganisms, termed
“mixed liquor” flows to two secondary clarifiers for final settling. Normally, wastewater
flows from Oxidation Ditch No. 1 to Clarifier No. 1 and from Oxidation Ditch No. 2 to
Clarifier No. 2. A cross connection exists prior to the clarifiers, allowing flow from both
oxidation ditches to go to only one clarifier. A portion of the settled solids is pumped
back to the headwork to maintain a high concentration of metabolically active
microorganisms in the oxidation ditches. The settled solids that are returned to the
oxidation ditches (via the headwork) are termed return activated sludge (RAS). Each
clarifier has a dedicated pump, which typically pumps RAS at 30 to 70 percent of the
average influent flows. The remainder of the settled microbial mass that is not returned
to the oxidation ditches, termed waste activated sludge (WAS), is wasted to the sludge
treatment facilities along with floating scum material that is scraped off the top of the
clarifiers. The plant has periodically experience poorly settling sludge causing elevated
solids within the secondary effluent. However, current secondary process operation
(two ditches in service, longer sludge ages, sequencing of aerators) has improved
clarifier performance.
Effluent from the clarifiers flows to the filter influent sump and is pumped to four parallel
mixed media filters. The pressure filters consisting of 30-inches, total, of anthracite coal
over smaller silica sand media, over even smaller garnet sand media, all supported on a
bed of silica gravel. The filters remove most of the particulate solids that can escape
from the clarifiers, reducing the suspended solids content in the effluent. The filters
were designed to treat flows up to 1.12 mgd when one of the filters is offline. Higher
flows (in excess of the filter influent pumps) are bypassed around the filters directly to
disinfection.
Filter effluent is disinfected with gaseous chlorine and dechlorinated with sulfur dioxide.
The chlorine contact basin provides 35 minutes of contact time at the peak hour flow of
2.4 mgd. After disinfection and dechlorination, the treated effluent is discharged to Deer
Creek.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 68]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO.1 ORDER NO. R5-2009-0004
LAKE WILDWOOD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077828
Scum and WAS from the clarifiers are pumped to the aerated sludge storage basin and
thickener. This basin originally was the aerobic package plant for the WWTP prior to the
need for the much larger oxidation ditches. The sludge storage basin/thickener stores,
aerates, and thickens the sludge to 0.25 to 2 percent solids. From the thickener, sludge
is pumped to a centrifuge for dewatering. The centrifuge dewaters the sludge to
approximately 20 percent solids. The dewatered sludge is conveyed to a storage bin for
eventual off-site disposal.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 20, T16N, R7E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Deer Creek, a
water of the United States

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is proposing to replace the existing chlorine disinfection system with a
UV disinfection system. Provisions have been included in this Order for operation of a
UV disinfection system when it becomes operational. Elimination of chlorine should
eliminate the formation of chlorine byproducts chloroform, dibromochloromethane, and
dichlorobromomethane. On 1 August 2008 the Discharger submitted a Revised
Infeasibility Report, which included a proposed time schedule for constructing and the
proposed UV disinfection facilities. The schedule for compliance is included in a Time
Schedule Order proposed for adoption concurrent with this Order.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of the Limitations and Discharge Requirements
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 70]
NEVADA