[Page 1]
8. The WWTF previously consisted of three unlined treatment ponds (Ponds 1
through 3) run in series and four percolation/evaporation disposal ponds (Ponds 4
through 7). The disposal ponds have an estimated percolation rate of approximately
0.01 feet per day. The three treatment ponds were used until 2011, when the WWTF
improvements project was completed as described below. From 2011 through 2015,
the Discharger used the abandoned treatment ponds for emergency disposal. The
Discharger was not able to remove the sludge from Ponds 2 and 3 until 2015, at
which point they were designated as disposal ponds. This Order establishes a time
schedule to remove sludge from Pond 1.
9. In 2006, the Discharger submitted a Preliminary Engineer’s Report that evaluated
alternative treatment designs to comply with CDO R5-2002-0048 and improve the
WWTF’s treatment and hydraulic capacity. Based on the evaluation, the Discharger
proposed a WWTF improvements project that involved decommissioning the old
treatment ponds, relocating and constructing a new headworks, constructing a larger
treatment pond system further from the Fresno Slough consisting of aerated primary
treatment ponds and secondary facultative ponds, removing sludge from the
decommissioned treatment ponds for use as disposal ponds, rehabilitating existing
disposal ponds to improve percolation rates, and constructing new disposal ponds
with better percolation rates.
10. From 2010 through 2012, the Discharger completed construction of the proposed
WWTF improvements project as available funding allowed. The project was
completed as discussed below. A site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
a. Construction included two aerated primary treatment ponds, T1 and T2, and two
secondary facultative treatment ponds, F1 and F2. Ponds T1 and F1 are run in
series as are ponds T2 and F2. Additional funds were not available to complete
the planned construction of two additional aerated primary treatment ponds, T3
and T4, and two additional secondary facultative treatment ponds, F3 and F4.
b. To increase hydraulic disposal capacity, the Discharger proposed constructing
new disposal ponds and draining, cleaning, and deepening the existing disposal
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016-0054 3
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
ponds to improve percolation rates. In 2006, the Discharger proposed a location
for new disposal ponds further from the river where an identified underlying sand
lens was anticipated to have a higher percolation rate than the existing disposal
ponds. In 2011, the Discharger constructed three new disposal ponds (Ponds 8
through 10) in the proposed location and to a depth of the sand lens. However,
within four weeks of filling the new disposal ponds with wastewater, the observed
percolation rate fell from 0.5 feet per day to less than 0.07 feet per day, which has
remained steady. It is unclear whether the percolation rate was affected by
clogging or whether the available void space was simply filled.
c. Efforts to improve the percolation rates of existing disposal Ponds 4 through 7
were not successful during the project timeline due to wet weather conditions,
funding availability, and project deadlines.
d. In 2012, the Discharger attempted another effort to obtain better percolation by
constructing disposal Pond 11 in the same sand lens as Ponds 8, 9, and 10, but
Pond 11 also exhibits the same percolation rate of 0.07 feet per day. Currently, an
economically feasible solution to improve the percolation rate does not exist.
11. The flow schematic of the completed WWTF improvement project is shown on
Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
After completing the WWTF improvement project in 2012, the WWTF had an influent
pum

[Page 3]
15. With respect to BOD, the Discharger’s WWTF improvement project has increased
effluent quality and treatment reliability. The Discharger has reduced effluent salinity
as measured by EC by completing the following projects. In 2004, the Discharger
installed three new water supply wells to improve source water quality. Since 2011,
the source water EC has typically been less than 700 µmhos/cm as a yearly average.
In 2011, the Discharger initiated a resident outreach salinity education program. As a
result of these efforts, effluent EC has been reduced from around 2,500 µmhos/cm to
1,500 µmhos/cm on average. Notably, the effluent EC concentration is less than the
influent EC concentration, which indicates that evapoconcentration is not playing a
considerable role in the high effluent concentrations. This also may indicate that the
wastewater contains a considerable fraction of EC that is biodegradable, which is
removed by the improved wastewater treatment pond system.
16. The source water based effluent limit, calculated as source water EC plus 500
µmhos/cm, ranges from 940 to1,370 µmhos/cm. It was not until late 2014 that the
discharge was able to come into compliance with the source water based EC effluent
limit. The discharge is not in compliance with the maximum effluent EC limit of
1,000 µmhos/cm.
17. The WWTF does not incorporate a dedicated biosolids processing, drying, or handling
facility. Biosolids accumulate in the primary treatment ponds T1 and T2, and to a
lesser extent in the facultative ponds F1 and F2. All four ponds have a depth of
14.5 feet after accounting for 2 feet of freeboard. Based on performance of the
previous wastewater treatment ponds, the Discharger estimates that biosolids
accumulate at a rate of 0.1 to 0.2 feet per year. The RWD did not propose a sludge
removal frequency. Based on an accumulation rate of 0.2 feet per year and the size
of the treatment ponds, sludge accumulation will be approximately 10-percent of pond
capacity after 7.5 years. Therefore, this Order requires the Discharger to monitor
sludge accumulation every 5 years and complete sludge removal within 24 months.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
18. The Discharger was not able to complete the WWTF improvement project as
proposed due to funding limitations. When funding becomes available the Discharger
plans to finish the remaining tasks of the project. These include rehabilitating and
removing the sludge from Pond 1 so that it can be used as a disposal pond,
rehabilitating Pond 6 so that it can be used as a disposal pond, and constructing four
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016-0054 5
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
additional unlined treatment ponds, T3, T4, F3, and F4.
19. The Discharger’s water balance shows that the addition of disposal Pond 1 will
increase the annual average hydraulic disposal capacity by 0.03 mgd and the addition
of Pond 6 will increase the disposal capacity by 0.06 mgd. Once both ponds are
completed, the total annual average design capacity will be 1.37 MGD. The projected
2020 average monthly wastewater flow is estimated to be 1.052 mgd. This Order
requires the submittal of a pond construction report prior to using Ponds 1 and 6 for
disposal.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The Mendota community obtains its potable water supply from groundwater supply
wells, which are owned and operated by the Discharger. The original source water
wells were constructed on the west side of the San Joaquin River Bypass and were of
low quality with high turbidity and poor odor and taste quality. The three source water
wells installed