[Page 71]
1. Existing Facility. The Facility is staffed and operated 24 hours per day and the liquid
treatment process consists of influent pumps, septage receiving station, mechanical bar
screening; aerated grit handling, grit classifiers that wash and dewater grit, covered
primary sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen biological treatment by activated sludge,
secondary sedimentation, disinfection with chlorine gas, and dechlorination with sulfur
dioxide. Effluent can be diverted to lined and unlined emergency storage basins (ESBs)
as needed to meet effluent dilution, thermal, and disinfection requirements or divert
excess flows. The current average dry weather flows are approximately 119 MGD and
the Facility has a design average dry weather flow capacity of 181 MGD. Odors are
controlled through stripping towers and carbon treatment.
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility will be
modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this Order consistent with the
applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and operation is as follows, and
differs seasonally.
The design capacity of the future Facility will remain 181 MGD. Facility modification will
include replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological treatment facilities with
biological nutrient removal (BNR) air activated treatment facilities capable of removing
ammonia and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with
granular media filters, sidestream ammonia treatment, and the storage capacity of the
ESBs A, B, C and D will be increased and lined. The Facility will continue to be staffed
and operated 24 hours per day and will consist of influent pumps; septage receiving
station; anaerobically digested material reception and storage facility; mechanical bar
screening; aerated grit handling; grit classifiers that wash and dewater grit; covered
primary sedimentation tanks; primary effluent pumping station and peak-shaving storage
facilities (using ESBs for flow equalization); BNR air activated sludge treatment; nitrifying
sequencing batch reactor for treating high ammonia concentration waste streams from
solids storage basins and biosolids reclamation facility; secondary sedimentation;
secondary effluent screens; filter influent pumping station; granular media filtration;
disinfection with chlorine liquid in a covered disinfection contact basin; and dechlorination
with sodium bisulfite. Compliant effluent can be diverted to the lined ESBs as needed to
meet effluent dilution and thermal limits before discharge to the river. Non-compliant
effluent, primary influent or effluent, and raw wastewater can be diverted to the lined
ESBs as needed for any reason including process upsets, or diversions for excess flows,
and returned for additional treatment to the influent of the facility. Odors are controlled
through biological fixed media scrubbers, scrubbing tower, chemical oxidizing towers,
and carbon treatment towers.
The BNR activated sludge treatment facilities will be designed to process up to
330 MGD. Flows in excess of 330 MGD will be stored in peak-shaving storage facilities
(ESBs) and returned for processing through the BNR facilities when capacity is available.
All wastewater will receive secondary treatment through the BNR facilities. The tertiary
filters will be designed to process flows up to 217 MGD, measured as a daily average.
This Order requires seasonal disinfection requirements and the Facility will be operated
differently seasonally, as follows:
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 72]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2016-0020
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
a. 1 May – 31 October. The Facility will be operated to meet Title 22 or equivalent
disinfection criteria (Special Provision VI.C.6.a).
b. 1 November – 30 April (commences 1 November 2023)
In the descriptions below, “filtered” means tertiary filtration of BNR effluent under
filter operations consistent with the design hydraulic loading rate necessary to
comply with the Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection criteria.
i. When the BNR effluent flow is 217 MGD, or less, measured as a daily average:
The entire BNR effluent flow will be filtered.
ii. When BNR effluent flow exceeds 217 MGD:
Up to 217 MGD will be filtered, and remaining wastewater will not be filtered. A
portion of the filtered effluent may be reclaimed. The remaining filtered and
non-filtered wastewater will be disinfected and combined with reclaimed water
in excess of demands, prior to the de-chlorination facilities.
3. Biosolids Treatment. Solids are thickened by dissolved air flotation and gravity belt
thickeners. Primary and secondary sludge is mixed. Fats, Oils, and Grease from FOG
receiving station may be mixed to the waste and the mixed waste is sent to anaerobic
digesters for approximately 15 days or more, stored at the sludge stabilization basins for
3 to 5 years then harvested and injected into lined dedicated land disposal sites. Some
biosolids are recycled with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger
can dispose of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option.
Separate WDR’s (Order R5-2015-0133) in conformance with California Code of
Regulations, title 27, division 2, subdivision 1 regulate the biosolids and solids storage
and disposal facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment units, unclassified solids
storage basins, and the Class III grit and screenings landfill closure. When the treatment
plant upgrades are complete, biosolids treatment and disposal will remain unchanged.
4. Groundwater Corrective Action Plan (CAP). As part of WDR Order R5-2015-0133, a
CAP was initiated by the Discharger. The CAP is to address elevated constituent
concentrations that were observed in samples from groundwater monitoring wells down
gradient of the Dedicated Land Disposal areas (DLD’s) and the Class III landfill when
compared to upgradient groundwater monitoring wells. Extraction wells are used for
hydraulic control of the site. Characterization of the groundwater aquifer is documented
in the reports submitted twice annually pursuant to WDR Order R5-2015-0133. The
Discharger conveys the extracted groundwater from the CAP extraction wells, at an
average pumping rate of approximately 0.4 MGD, to the Facility effluent channel
downstream of the secondary clarifiers and upstream of the plant chlorination station or
onsite constructed wetlands. Discharging water from the CAP system downstream of the
secondary clarifiers is acceptable and does not decrease the amount of treatment as the
treatment processes upstream of this discharge point are not designed for removal of the
CAP discharge constituents of concern. Furthermore, based on the extracted
groundwater sampling, estimates of CAP discharge constituent concentrations are either
below current Facility effluent concentrations or do not have a reasonable potential to
violate water quality objectives in the receiving water. Based on these consid

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed further in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is constructing
upgrades to the Facility, including replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological
treatment facilities with BNR air activated treatment facilities capable of removing ammonia
and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with granular media
filters, sidestream ammonia treatment, and an increase in lined emergency storage basin
facilities.
In all, Facility modifications will result in the construction, commissioning, and operation of
seven or more new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units: flow equalization,
disinfection chemical storage, biological nutrient removal (phase I and phase II), nitrifying
sidestream treatment, and tertiary treatment facilities. Biological nutrient removal and
nitrifying sidestream treatment are biological treatment processes. The start-up and
commissioning period (i.e., period of time necessary for adjusting and testing of new or
reconstructed wastewater treatment units) for projects of this size, while maintaining
consistent and ongoing treatment operations, is a complex undertaking. It involves the
gradual transitioning of wastewater treatment from current plant facilities over to new or
reconstructed treatment p