[Page 68]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of City of Woodland. The
WWTP design daily average flow capacity is 10.4 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Headworks
Four enclosed screw pumps lift the wastewater to a height sufficient for gravity flow.
A 36 inch Parshall flume measures the influent flow rate. Two aerated grit chambers
remove smaller inorganic materials (such as sand and rocks). Automatic control
gates regulate the direction and quantity of flow to the grit chambers, while peak
flows and overflows are directed to the treatment ponds. A constant water level gate
further controls overflow to the treatment ponds. The plant flow rate is measured by
the depth of the flow over flumes located downstream from the constant water level
gate. Diversion to treatment ponds may be measured by subtracting the plant flow
rate from the influent flow rate.
Screenings are washed and compacted before being sent to a landfill. Grit is land
filled.
2. Secondary Treatment
Splitter box “A” splits the wastewater flow between up to four oxidation ditches. The
oxidation ditches provide mechanical aeration and grow bacteria that assimilate the
organic material within the wastewater. The system is operated so that the bacteria
convert ammonia in the water to nitrate (a process termed “nitrification”). Given the
average organic load of the wastewater entering the oxidation ditches and re-
aeration capacity, each ditch has a treatment capacity of 2.6 MGD. Detention time
for each oxidation ditch is about 19.5 hours based on a flow rate of 10.4 MGD. Flow
may either be directed to an adjacent ditch or fed into Splitter box “B”.’
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 69]
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER NO. R5-2009-0010
CITY OF WOODLAND WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0077950
Splitter box “B” collects effluent from one or more of the oxidation ditches and splits
that effluent to flow to any combination of two 92-foot and two 130-foot (center feed)
secondary clarifiers. At splitter box “B” polymer is added to enhance floc formation
in the secondary clarifiers. Depth of each 92-foot clarifier is 12 feet, and the depth of
each 130-foot clarifier is 17 feet. At current flows, all four clarifiers are used. Clarifier
weirs and launderers are covered to minimize algae growth. Settled sludge is
siphoned to the return sludge pump station, and there, is either pumped upstream of
splitter box “A”, or pumped to the treatment ponds as waste sludge. Both return and
waste sludge flows are metered. Effluent from the clarifiers is combined and directed
to a tertiary pump station to lift secondary effluent up to the cloth media filters.
3. Tertiary Filtration
In 2006 and 2007 tertiary filtration was constructed at the WPCF. The system
consists of cloth media filters in stainless steel tanks mounted on concrete slabs with
backwash pumps and appurtenant pipes and valves. The WPCF has four filtration
modules. Filtered effluent generally has a turbidity of less than 2 NTUs and TSS and
BOD levels of less than 10 mg/L.
4. Ultraviolet Disinfection
In 2006 and 2007, the WPCF also replaced its chlorination disinfection system with
an ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection system. The facility consists of lamp modules
mounted in concrete channels, with appurtenant flow-control flumes and gates, and
an overhead crane-rail hoist for use during removal of lamp modules. Two channels
are provided. The system was designed to comply with DHS Title 22 requirements
for UV systems.
5. Sludge Handling
Sludge settled in the secondary clarifiers is siphoned to the return sludge pump
station (RSPS). At the RSPS, the sludge is either recycled within the system as
return activated sludge (RAS) or wasted from the system as waste activated sludge
(WAS). RAS is pumped from the RSPS to upstream of splitter box “A”. RAS flow rate
is metered. WAS is pumped to the treatment ponds. WAS flow rate is metered.
Onsite treatment ponds are of sufficient capacity to retain waste sludge for long-term
treatment.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 2, T9N, R2E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B
(Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Tule Canal, a
water of the United States at a point Latitude 38º, 40’, 54” N and longitude

===PLANNED CHANGES===

