[Page 77]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service to the City of Vacaville and for the
unincorporated community of Elmira and serves a population of approximately 96,735.
The Facility’s average dry weather flow (ADWF) design capacity is 15 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility consists of two parallel treatment plants, the existing North Plant and the
newly constructed South Plant. The treatment system at the North Plant consists of bar
screens, grit removal, primary clarifiers, activated sludge aeration basins, and
secondary clarifiers with nitrification capacity of 6 mgd ADWF. The new South Plant
that was commissioned in November 2004 consists of headworks, primary
sedimentation basins, aeration basins, secondary circular clarifiers, a chlorination
contact chamber and dechlorination facilities. Secondary effluent from the North Plant
is disinfected at the South Plant. Sludge is anaerobically digested, dewatered using a
belt filter press. Dried biosolids are hauled to the B&J Landfill. The North Plant was
designed for 10 mgd ADWF but derated to 6 mgd because of nitrification capacity, and
27 mgd daily peak wet weather flow (PWWF) with primary effluent by-pass to
disinfection for flows above 17 mgd. Improvements to the North Plant were completed
December 2006. The new South Plant was designed to handle 9 mgd ADWF.
Therefore, the designed flow for both plants in operation is 15 mgd ADWF and 55 mgd
PWWF with primary effluent by-pass to disinfection for flows above 39 mgd (as limited
by secondary treatment capabilities).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 78]
CITY OF VACAVILLE ORDER NO. R5-2008-0055
EASTERLY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077691
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 19, T6N, R1E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B
(Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Old Alamo
Cree

===PLANNED CHANGES===

