[Page 97]
1. Facility Treatment Processes
a. Required Processes
• Influent flow meter
• Screening;
• Biological treatment within oxidation ditches that include nitrification and
denitrification;
• Secondary clarification; three secondary clarifiers;
• Granular medium filtration; and
• Disinfection with ultraviolet (UV) light.
b. Auxiliary Processes
• Chemical coagulation and rapid mix flocculation;
• Two maturation ponds, which are designed to equalize flow within the
treatment process, effluent temperatures with receiving water
temperatures, and to effectively equalize effluent concentrations. The
maturation ponds operate as one unit as these can be operated in parallel
and/or in a series. Maturation Pond 1’s slopes are lined with high-density
polyethylene (HDPE) and Maturation Pond 2 is completely lined with a
single 60-mil HDPE liner, but not double lined with leak detection. Due to
use, exposure to the weather, and other factors, liners can degrade in time
and result in unregulated discharges to groundwater. The liners in
Maturation Ponds 1 and 2 were installed to aid in the maintenance of the
ponds, not to prevent percolation of process water to groundwater.
Therefore, for the above-mentioned reasons this Order considers both
Maturation Ponds 1 and 2 a combined discharge point to groundwater;
• Dissolved air flotation (DAF) to remove algae that grows in the maturation
ponds;
• Emergency Storage Basin with a 2-foot compacted clay liner on top of a
60-mil HDPE liner, capable of holding approximately 79 million gallons, is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 98]
LINCOLN-SMD1 WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER R5-2024-0024
LISWA WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES CA0084476
provided to hold all influent and effluent that does not meet discharge
requirements;
• D

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of completing a phased expansion project to
increase the Facility’s treatment capacity incrementally from an average dry
weather flow of 5.9 MGD to an average dry weather flow of up to 8.4 MGD in
order to accommodate planned growth. An Antidegradation Analysis has been
completed for 8.4 MGD. The phases will incrementally include new grit removal,
oxidation ditch(es), secondary clarifier(s), a recycled activated sludge (RAS)
pump station, a maturation pond outlet pump station, a dissolved air flotation
thickener (DAFT), new filter(s) and hydraulic improvements to achieve an
equivalent ADWF capacity up to 8.4 MGD.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencin