[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Mountain House and
serves a population of approximately 9,800. The current average dry weather flow capacity
of the Facility is 3.0 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility is planned to expand in three phases. Currently,
the Discharger is discharging from the Phase II wastewater treatment plant (WWTP).
The Phase II treatment system consists of headworks, an anoxic reactor for flow/load
equalization and carbon source for denitrification, sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) for
biological treatment including nitrification and denitrification, cloth media filtration, and
ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. The Facility also includes two lined, aerated storage
reservoirs for use during emergency situations and during plant maintenance. The
storage reservoirs have a capacity of approximately twelve million gallons, which
provide automatic short-term emergency storage. Level and flow metering, aeration
equipment and discharge pumping facilities are available to allow a metered return to
the regular process stream.
Sludge handling at the Facility includes two aerobic digesters, a drum thickener, and a
centrifuge. Solids are collected in a truck and transported to Synagro for disposal
approximately twice per month.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 3, T2S, R4E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
MOUNTAIN HOUSE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER R5-2013-0004
MOUNTAIN HOUSE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDE

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Currently, the Facility discharges from the Phase II WWTP. The Phase III WWTP is an
expansion of the Phase II WWTF to accommodate planned growth within the service
area, adding larger influent and effluent pumping systems, a larger bar screen, and an
additional sequencing batch reactor and cloth media filtration in order to accommodate
expanded flows up to 5.4 MGD. The Discharger must demonstrate compliance with
Provision VI.C.6.a of this Order prior to increasing flow to 5.4 MGD.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in the Findings in section II of this Order. The appli