[Page 52]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Nevada City and serves a
population of approximately 3,150. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 0.69
million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The wastewater treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, magnesium hydroxide
addition, influent flow equalization and emergency storage, nitrification/denitrification,
activated sludge, tertiary filters, chlorination, and dechlorination. The waste activated sludge
is stored in an aerated day tank, dewatered by a belt filter press, and hauled to Ostrom Road
Landfill in Wheatland, CA.
The screening consists of a Parkson HLS500 Hycor Helisieve automatic screen to remove
inorganics larger than 1/4", grit removal occurs in a manually scraped grit channel.
Magnesium hydroxide is added via a variable speed auger to maintain optimal pH in the
nitrification/denitrification activated sludge process. Influent flow emergency storage or
equalization is provided, as needed, in the original primary clarifier no longer needed with the
new treatment process. Advanced secondary treatment is provided by two parallel
nitrification/denitrification activated sludge processes (two basins and two secondary
clarifiers).
Tertiary filtration is provided by a disk filter and sand filter in series operation (filters may also
be run in parallel operation during high flow events or either filter may be isolated for
maintenance). Effluent disinfection is achieved using chlorine. The final effluent is
dechlorinated prior to discharge to Deer Creek.
Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site to a landfill. Secondary waste activated sludge is
stored in an aerated day tank (with emergency backup storage in the old anaerobic digester)
then dewatered in a filter press. Biosolids are collected in a truck trailer before they are
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 53]
CITY OF NEVADA CITY ORDER R5-2017-0060
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079901
hauled off-site to a landfill. No biosolids are treated, stored, or discharged onsite. Filtrate from
the sludge dewatering process is returned to the activated sludge process for treatment with
the incoming waste stream.
The Discharger has a year to year contract with Robinson Enterprises to haul the sludge.
There is no contract with the Ostrom Road Landfill, but sludge is tested as required by the
state to meet the requirements.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 12, T16N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Deer Creek, a
water of the United States and a tributary to the Yuba River at a point latitude 39° 16

===PLANNED CHANGES===

