[Page 58]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of San Andreas and serves a population
of approximately 2200 and has no industrial users. The design average dry weather flow (ADWF)
capacity of the Facility is 0.32 million gallons per day (MGD) and the peak hour flow is 1.9 MGD,
excluding the capacity of the High Flow Treatment System (HFTS).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility treatment system consists of one mechanical screen, a primary clarifier, a
trickling filter, a two-train nitrifying activated sludge reactor basin, a secondary clarifier, disk
filters, and chlorine disinfection. The treatment system also includes ancillary systems for pH
adjustment and chemical feed for disinfection and de-chlorination. For effluent discharge to
North Fork Calaveras River, all unit processes are needed, except for the trickling filter. For
discharge to the DLDA, no nitrification is required. Therefore, the reactor basins, pH control
system, and de-chlorination can be taken offline to reduce costs and salt addition to the
effluent. Solids removed are treated by anaerobic digestion (to be replaced by aerobic
digestion in 2019), dewatered by filter press, and dried in sludge drying beds. The Facility has
two storm water storage ponds.
The foregoing treatment system has a peak hour, day, and month treatment flow limits of 1.9,
1.3, and 0.8 MGD, respectively. The ADWF capacity of the Facility is 0.32 MGD. Facility
influent flows can exceed 1.9 MGD under severe precipitation conditions. A portion of high
influent flows (e.g., above the foregoing limits) may be treated by the HFTS, which
dischargers directly to Pond D, which is a part of the DLDA. The HFTS consists of a separate
chlorination point and contact device downstream of the mechanical screen.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 59]
SAN ANDREAS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R5-2018-0075
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079464
The DLDA consists of unlined effluent storage Pond D and approximately 30 acres (seen in
red in Figure B-1, Attachment B). The DLDA may be expanded, as needed, into the blue
areas shown in Figure B-2, Attachment B. Effluent is applied to the DLDA land via sprinklers.
The Discharger submitted a 1-in-100 Year Season Water Balance to the Central Valley Water
Board that forecasts the current sprinkler disposal system and Pond D will be sufficient to
meet the effluent storage and disposal needs of the Facility when conditions in the North Fork
Calaveras River do not provide sufficient dilution to facilitate surface water discharge.
The primary method of effluent disposal is sprinkler irrigation to of DLDA land. However,
under high and/or persistent precipitation events, the DLDA’s shallow soils become saturated,
and therefore, cannot absorb effluent. During these events, effluent is stored in Pond D and/or
discharged to the North Fork Calaveras River in quantities not exceeding a dilution ratio of
20:1 (receiving water to effluent). The outfall to the North Fork Calaveras River consists of a
48-foot cross-stream diffuser directly upstream of a concrete ford.
The Discharger treats primary sludge by means of digestion in the heated unmixed anaerobic
digester (being converted to aerobic digestion in 2019), then dewatering by belt filter press.
Secondary clarification produces waste activated sludge (WAS), which is sent directly to the
belt filter press without further treatment. WAS will be digested in the new aerobic digester
when operational. Dewatered sludge is transported to the asphalt lined drying pad where, in
summer months, the biosolids are spread to air dry for a minimum of 90 days to meet 40 CFR
503 Class B pathogen reduction requirements. The Discharger currently has a contract with
Synagro, a sustainable facilities management and environmental services provider, for
biosolids removal. Synagro typically removes biosolids from the Facility once per year,
biosolids are applied to land by Synagro within six hours of removal to achieve adequate
vector attraction reduction. Runoff from the biosolids drying bed is sent to the process feed
station for introduction into the Facility for treatment. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids is regulated by USEPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
Storm water from the paved portion of the Facility is collected in Ponds B and C, where it
either evaporates or is conveyed to Pond D and discharged to the DLDA. Storm water from
the non-paved portion of the Facility is not collected but is conveyed to San Andreas Creek
through a system of storm water collection ditches. Ponds B and C also accept tertiary or
secondary wastewater during periods of operational maintenance. All wastewater is
chlorinated prior to discharge to the ponds.
Water in Pond D can be returned to the treatment system for retreatment and discharge to the
North Fork Calaveras River, if/when appropriate. Effluent storage is the most limiting aspect
of this Facility; therefore, the facility is operated to minimize the accumulation of water in Pond
D.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T4N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the North
Fork Calaveras River, a water of the United States and a tributary to the New Hogan
Reservoir at a point latitude 38° 12’ 39” N and longitude 120° 42’ 20” W.
3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

