[Page 1]
10. Wastewater is metered using ultrasonic flow meters at the headworks (prior to treatment),
downstream of treatment/storage ponds and prior to chlorination, and downstream of the
chlorination pipe.
11. Presently, five wastewater ponds exist. Ponds No. 1 through 4 are located at the
Treatment Area; Pond No. 5 is located at LAA No. 1. A sixth pond, Pond No. 6, will be
constructed at LAA No. 2 as part of the Treatment Improvement Project.
12. A wastewater treatment schematic is presented on Attachment C, which is attached hereto
and made part of this Order by reference. The following summarizes the treatment
process:
a. Wastewater is biologically treated in a mechanically aerated treatment pond (Pond
No. 1) prior to discharge to three storage ponds (Ponds No. 2, 3, and 4). The existing
treatment capacity is in excess of 0.40 Mgal/day.
b. Wastewater in Ponds No. 2, 3, and 4 has undergone biological treatment but has not
been disinfected. This wastewater is currently pumped either to Pond No. 5 for storage
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 3
LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
or to LAA No. 1 for disposal. In this Order, wastewater that is disinfected is considered
“recycled water.”
c. Effluent disinfection processes will be added as part of the Disposal Improvement
Project. The disinfectant will be chlorine gas. The chlorine contact chamber will
consist of a 20-inch diameter pipe that is 500 feet long. Recycled water will be pumped
to either Pond No. 5, to Pond No. 6 (when built), or directly to LAAs No. 1 or 2.
d. Until the disinfection process is operable, the Discharger is prohibited from applying
undisinfected wastewater to land.
13. Pond configurations are expected to change as part of the future Treatment Improvement
Project, which will provide better wastewater treatment and flexibility of operation.
However, the footprint of the ponds at the Treatment Area will not change. The wastewater
ponds are described below:
a. At the Treatment Area, four ponds presently exist.
i) Pond No. 1 is a treatment pond and is equipped with two 10-horsepower brush
aerators and three 7.5-horsepower aspirator type aerators. The pond does not
contain a synthetic liner. As part of the Treatment Improvement Project, two
10-horsepower brush type mechanical aerators will be added to the treatment
pond to increase treatment capacity, improve mixing, and reduce the potential for
short-circuiting in the pond. The pond is 39 ac•ft in size and holds 13-million
gallons at two feet of freeboard.
ii) Ponds No. 2, 3, and 4 are used for wastewater storage but could be converted to
treatment ponds if needed (to allow sludge removal from Pond No. 1 or other
operation and maintenance needs). The ponds do not contain synthetic liners.
The three ponds hold a total of 156 ac•ft and 51 million gallons at two feet of
freeboard.
b. Each LAA will contain a recycled water storage pond. The acreage that the ponds
occupy is not part of the LAA irrigation acreage used in water balance calculations.
i) Pond No. 5 is located at LAA No. 1 and is presently used to store treated
(undisinfected) wastewater; however, in the future it will store recycled water. The
pond does not contain a synthetic liner. Pond No. 5 will be deepened to increase
the storage capacity from the current volume of 40 million gallons (123 ac•ft), to 51
million gallons (157 ac•ft) at two feet of freeboard as part of the Disposal
Improvement Project.
ii) Pond No. 6 will be constructed at LAA No. 2 as part of the Treatment Improvement
Project and will be used to store recycled water. As described in the RWD, the
pond will not contain a synthetic liner. The pond will be constructed when sludge
is removed from Pond No. 1 as part of the Treatment Improvement Project, which
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 4
LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
will remove Pond No. 1 from service temporarily. Pond No. 6 will be 52 ac•ft in
size and will hold 17 million gallons at two feet of freeboard. The parcel for LAA
No. 2 consists of 60 acres; however, only 38 acres are proposed for land
application of recycled water because of Pond No. 6 and setbacks from natural
drainages throughout the parcel.
14. The Disposal Improvement Project will consist of the activities listed below. This project will
formally begin when this Order is adopted.
a. Deepening of Pond No. 5 to increase storage capacity by at least 11 million gallons.
b. Installation of new groundwater monitoring wells for the ponds and land application
areas.
c. Installation of disinfection equipment.
d. Improvements on 38 acres to allow the land application of recycled water on LAA
No. 2.
e. Submittal of documentation showing that a legal covenant regarding land use has been
signed with the property owner located south of LAA No. 2.
f. Preparation and submittal of a technical report documenting completion of the
foregoing.
15. The Treatment Improvement Project will consist of the following activities, and while not
currently scheduled, will be performed two years prior to sludge removal from the existing
treatment pond (Pond No. 1):
a. At least 17 Mgal of new storage will be constructed as Pond No. 6. The planned site
for the new Pond No. 6 is the northwest corner of LAA No. 2.
b. A storage pond at the Treatment Area will be converted to a new 0.4 Mgal/day, two-cell
aerated treatment pond system so that Pond No. 1 can be taken out of service.
c. Once the new storage Pond No. 6 is constructed and a storage pond has been
converted to a treatment pond, Pond No. 1 will be taken out of service, the sludge will
be removed, and Pond No. 1 will be converted into a second 0.4 Mgal/day, two-cell
aerated treatment pond system.
d. At the end of the Treatment Improvement Project, the Discharger will have a
0.6 Mgal/day, three-cell treatment plant with a fourth cell in reserve to allow any of the
three cells to be taken out of service for any reason.
e. The Treatment Improvement Project will be initiated when any of the following occurs:
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 5
LOCKEFORD COMM

===PLANNED CHANGES===

