[Page 63]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the unincorporated community of El Portal and the
Yosemite Valley in Yosemite National Park, and serves a population of approximately 2,200
permanent residents and up to 20,000 visitors per day to the Park during the peak summer
months. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 1.0 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of preliminary, primary, secondary, and tertiary
treatment. Preliminary treatment consists of bar screening, grit removal, and grinders.
Primary treatment consists of two circular primary clarifiers which are followed by a
125,000-gallon flow equalization basin. Secondary treatment consists of activated sludge
(three 125,000-gallon aeration tanks) and secondary clarification (two 50-foot diameter
clarifiers). Tertiary treatment consists of coagulation, flocculation, tube settling, and sand
filtration. The tertiary-treated effluent is then disinfected by ultraviolet light.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T3S, R20E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated domestic wastewater is discharged to percolation ponds at Discharge Point 001
(via percolation), which are hydraulically connected to the Merced River, or Discharge
Point 002 (direct discharge) to the Merced River, a water of the United States, at a point
latitude 37° 40’ 04” N and longitude 119° 48’ 45” W.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R5-2008-0060 for discharges fro

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Over the previous permit term, the Discharger has made modifications to the sludge
drying beds in an attempt to seal the drying bends and prevent the drying beds from
impacting groundwater. The Discharger reported in the ROWD that the post
construction hydraulic testing conducted in 2012 showed that the drying beds were not
completely sealed. The ROWD indicated that the Discharger would fix the leaks prior to
using the drying beds.
2. The Discharger indicated in the ROWD that modifications to the Facility’s intake
structure will take place in 2014. The ROWD indicated that these modifications would
allow the Discharger to take flow-proportioned composite influent samples.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this