[Page 71]
Reclamation Requirements Producer of Title 22 water
Facility Permitted Flow 0.5 MGD (w/Chlorine disinfection) or 0.95 MGD (w/UV disinfection)
Facility Design Flow 0.2 MGD Secondary Treatment & 0. 95 MGD Tertiary Treatment
Watershed Calaveras Hydrologic Basin
Receiving Water Regulated Wetlands and Littlejohns Creek
Receiving Water Type Wetlands and Creek
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Version 2005-1A) F- 3
[Page 72]
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2006-0081
SADDLE CREEK GOLF COURSE, L.P. NPDES NO. CA0084620
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
A. Calaveras County Water District (CCWD) is the owner and operator of Copper Cove
Wastewater Reclamation Facility (hereinafter Facility) a domestic wastewater tertiary
treatment facility and the Saddle Creek Community is the owner and operator of the Saddle
Creek Golf Course (SCGC), recipient of tertiary treated wastewater.
B. By this Order, the Facility will be permitted to discharge minor amounts of golf course over
spraying and residual discharges of tertiary treated wastewater that could occur during the
first rainstorm, as part of any reclaimed wastewater uses to regulated wetlands and
Littlejohns Creek, which are waters of the United States. Additionally, this permit also allows
direct discharge of tertiary treated effluent to regulated wetlands (Mitchell lake) when
necessary, to provide makeup water. The wetlands system is regulated by a conditional use
permit under Clean Water Act Section 404 Permit No. 199100807 (“404 Permit”) issued by
the US Army Corps of Engineers, which requires that there be a continuous supply of water
to maintain minimum water levels in the wetlands.
C. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and submitted an application for a National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit on 25 February 2005, to discharge
up to the Design Flow Rate of 0.95 mgd of tertiary treated wastewater from Copper Cove
Wastewater Reclamation Facility to Saddle Creek Golf Course and to its jurisdictional
wetlands tributaries to Littlejohns Creek. Supplemental Information was submitted on
3 August 2005. A site visit was conducted on 13 July 2005 to observe operations and collect
additional data to develop permit limitations and conditions.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the Copperopolis Development Area (Copper
Cove Sub-division) and serves a population of approximately 2800. The Discharger, due to
recent development trends in the community, lack of adequate storage capacity, and lack of
additional disposal spray fields, has experienced overflows of wastewater from the effluent
storage ponds during wet winters. As a result, the Discharger requested a direct discharge of
tertiary treated effluent from the Facility directly to Littlejohns Creek during 100-year storm
events when there is a danger of overflow from the on-site storage ponds. However, this
permit does not allow direct discharge of tertiary treated effluent to Littlejohns Creek at this
time, due to lack of demonstration that a direct discharge to Littlejohns Creek would still be
necessary if land disposal is maximized.
This NPDES permit allows the discharge of reclaimed wastewater directly to SCGC’s
receiving pond and its subsequent use for golf course irrigation. Additionally, this NPDES
permit also allows direct discharge to the jurisdictional wetlands when necessary, to provide
makeup water. The SCGC’s receiving pond is a part of the wetlands system regulated by the
US Army Corps of Engineers (in December 1994), Clean Water Act Section 404 Conditional
Use Permit No. 199100807 (“404 Permit”). By requiring compliance with NPDES permit
limits at the discharge to SCGC’s receiving pond, the NPDES permit protects the beneficial
use of the jurisdictional wetlands from incidental golf course discharges as a result of
Attachment F – Fact Sheet (Version 2005-1A) F- 4
[Page 73]
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2006-0081
SADDLE CREEK GOLF COURSE, L.P. NPDES NO. CA0084620
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
irrigation with recycled water and Littlejohns Creek from any commingled discharge from
incidental golf course runoffs and makeup water delivered directly to the jurisdictional
wetlands.
The 404 Permit requires that all ponds and wetland areas have a continuous supply of water
to maintain minimum water levels in the Golf Course ponds and for downstream flows. The
404 Permit has designated some of the wetland systems as final, protected habitat areas, and
some of the wetland systems for “cleansing” purposes. The 404 Permit also requires
construction of the Golf Course receiving pond detention system is in such a manner as to
keep the water levels within certain wetlands limits. The 404 Permit prohibits the Discharger
from draining golf course receiving ponds down to prevent reclaimed wastewater stored in
the wetlands from overflowing during rainfall events.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of a headworks/flow diverter, two aerated ponds (Ponds1&2)
operated in series, followed by a non-aerated pond (Pond 4). The treatment system design
average dry weather flow treatment capacity is 0.2 MGD secondary and 0.95 MGD tertiary.
Even though CCWD’s tertiary filtration has a capacity of 0.95 MGD, the existing effluent
disinfection system restricts flow to 0.5 MGD maximum due to chlorine contact time
requirements. However, under the proposed WWTP improvements, a 0.95 MGD capacity
UV disinfection system is scheduled to replace the existing chlorination facility by the end of
Summer 2006. The flow restriction to 0.5 MGD will remain until the UV system is installed
and certified by the Regional Water Board.
Currently, treated secondary wastewater is stored in storage Pond No. 6 for subsequent
irrigation on-site on CCWD’s 25 acres of spray irrigation fields. Wastewater to be reclaimed
on the SCGC is further treated to tertiary levels at the Facility by utilizing wastewater stored
in Pond 6 and further processing it with the use of a Microfloc, coagulation-flocculation, and
two-stage filtration system. Hypochlorite is added for disinfection and to control algae prior
to pumping into reclaimed water storage tank. A minimum of 90 minutes of chlorine contact
time is achieved by the use of a 38 foot diameter (141,000-gallon) reclaimed water storage
tank and wastewater conveyance pipe transporting the tertiary wastewater to the SCGC
receiving pond. Tertiary wastewater is then reclaimed for use on the SCGC by sprinkler
irrigation.
The current biosolids treatment and controls, and land disposal of secondary effluent onsite
are regulated by a separate Order No.5-00-136, which was adopted on 16 June 2000.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The treatment plant is in Section 26, T1N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown on Attachment B, a
part of this

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Currently all treated wastewater is contained and disposed of on-site spray fields during summer
months. There are two winter storage ponds, Pond 5 and Pond 6. This Order would allow
treated wastewater to be reclaimed on the SCGC and incidental runoff from the golf course area
into regulated surface waters. These changes in combination with proposed installation of UV
disinfection system, expansion of on-site spray fields and wintertime storage capacity would
significantly reduce the threat of uncontrolled release of wastewater to surface waters.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to secti