[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Turlock and the community
service districts of Denair and Keyes, and receives up to 2 MGD of primary treated effluent
from the City of Ceres. The Facility serves a population of approximately 88,000 and 12
significant industrial users (SIUs). The design average dry weather flow capacity of the
Facility is 20 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of screening, grit removal, primary
flotation, secondary treatment (activated sludge) for biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) reduction and nitrification, secondary clarification, high rate clarification with
chemical addition, tertiary treatment via cloth disk filters, chlorine disinfection and
sodium bisulfite dechlorination. The wastewater facilities also include a 37.2 million
gallon earthen emergency storage basin, which allows for the diversion and storage of
primary effluent if necessary.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 67]
CITY OF TURLOCK ORDER R5-2015-0027-01
REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0078948
Order R5-2010-0002-01 allowed for discharges to both the Harding Drain and the San
Joaquin River upon completion of a dedicated pipeline to transport and discharge
treated wastewater from the Facility directly to the San Joaquin River. The Discharger
completed the project and began discharging to the San Joaquin River in July 2014,
and has ceased discharging to Harding Drain. This Order only authorizes discharges
to the San Joaquin River at Discharge Point 001.
Solids handling consists of gravity belt thickener, anaerobic digestion, sludge drying
beds and beneficial reuse of biosolids via land application to farmland and co-compost
for public distribution.
The Discharger currently provides up to 2 MGD of recycled water for cooling purposes
to the Walnut Energy Center, a 250 megawatt power plant owned and operated by the
Turlock Irrigation District. The Discharger also provides an average of 100,000 gallons
per day for irrigation purposes at the Pedretti Sports Complex.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facilit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

