[Page 90]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides wastewater treatment service to the Cities of Sacramento,
Folsom, and West Sacramento, the communities of Courtland and Walnut Grove, and the
Sacramento Area Sewer District. The Sacramento Area Sewer District service area
includes the Cities of Elk Grove, Rancho Cordova, Citrus Heights, as well as, portions of
the unincorporated areas of Sacramento County. The population served is approximately
1.3 million people. The collection systems are owned and operated by the various
contributing agencies and not by the Discharger, and are regulated under the State Water
Board general order, Water Quality Order No. 2006-0003, effective November 2006. The
City of Sacramento operates both a separate sewer collection system and a combined
(storm water and wastewater) collection system. During wet weather the Facility is
contracted to accept up to 60 mgd of wastewater and storm runoff from the downtown
Sacramento combined collection system. Combined collection flows in excess of 60 mgd
are managed by the Combined Wastewater Collection and Treatment System (CWCTS)
operated by the City of Sacramento. The CWCTS discharge is governed by Waste
Discharge Requirements Order No. 2010-0004 issued to the City of Sacramento.
Depending on treatment and conveyance capacity, flow in excess of 60 mgd maybe
received at the Facility.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is staffed and operated 24 hours per day and consists of influent pumps,
septage receiving station, mechanical bar screening; aerated grit handling, grit
classifiers that wash and dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, pure
oxygen biological treatment by activated sludge, secondary sedimentation, disinfection
with chlorine gas, and dechlorination with sulfur dioxide. Effluent can be diverted to
lined and unlined emergency storage basins as needed to meet effluent dilution,
thermal, and disinfection requirements or divert excess flows. Odors are controlled
through stripping towers and carbon treatment.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 91]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2010-0114-01
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
Solids are thickened by dissolved air floatation and gravity belt thickeners. Primary and
secondary sludge is mixed and sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately fifteen
days or more, stored at the solids storage basins for three to five years then harvested
and injected into lined dedicated land disposal sites. Some biosolids are recycled with
the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger can dispose of biosolids at
the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option. Separate Waste Discharge
Requirements (Order No. R5-2003-0076) in conformance with Title 27, California Code
of Regulations, Division 2, Subdivision 1 regulate the biosolids and solids storage and
disposal facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment units, unclassified solids storage
basins, the Class III grit and screenings landfill closure and the groundwater Corrective
Action Program (CAP).
The Facility discharges to the Sacramento River just downstream of the Freeport Bridge
via an outfall diffuser. The outfall diffuser is approximately 300 feet long with 74 ports
and is placed perpendicular to the river flow. At times, the river flows in the reverse
direction northeast towards the City of Sacramento, due to tidal activit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

