[Page 0]
3. In November 2010, the Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge to address
the upgraded WWTF and an Updated Title 22 Report in part to address the delivery of
the disinfected tertiary recycled water to its Use Areas and offsite Reclamation Areas
(sod farms and/or golf course).
4. The Discharger will recycle/dispose the tertiary effluent on a 181-acre Use Area as
shown on Attachment A. This property is owned and controlled by the Discharger. The
Use Area is comprised of two distinct areas: an existing 85-acre spray field upon which
treated effluent is disposed of; and an approximate 96-acre recycling area upon which
effluent will be recycled for crop irrigation. The existing spray field is fallow, containing
native vegetation and grasses. Crops are currently not grown in the spray field and the
resulting vegetation is plowed into the soil or grazed by livestock. The Discharger
indicates it will grow crops in the remaining 96 acres, but has not provided information
regarding the types of crops and where they are to be grown. A Use Area Management
Plan and a Nutrient Management Plan are required per Provisions G.20 and G.21,
respectively.
5. The Discharger has entered into an agreement with the Tehachapi-Cummings County
Water District to recycle effluent on a nearby golf course and potentially to adjacent
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -2-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
sod/turf farms referred to as the “Reclamation Areas.” The Tehachapi-Cummings
County Water District will be responsible for the distribution of the effluent to the
Reclamation Areas. A Master Reclamation Permit will be prepared for consideration at
a future board meeting.
6. The Prison opened in 1933 as a minimum security women’s prison, but was later
converted to a men’s correctional institution. The WWTF currently serves a population
of about 8,000 consisting of about 6,000 inmates and about 2,000 employees.
7. The earliest Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for the Prison were WDRs Orders
63-158 and 72-280. Initially, the WWTF provided primary treatment of wastewater with
discharge to oxidation/percolation ponds. WDRs Order 74-282 replaced Order 72-280
and permitted an average daily flow of 0.25 million gallons per day (mgd). After 1974,
the WWTF provided secondary treatment of the wastewater and effluent was spray
disposed of on nearby rangeland. The WWTF is currently regulated by WDR Order
88-035 that allows for the discharge of up to 1.1 mgd of secondary treated wastewater
to an approximately 114-acre spray field consisting of fallow land.
8. Order 88-035 is no longer adequate because it does not reflect the current treatment
conditions at the WWTF, the ongoing upgrade project, and the proposed
reclamation/recycling practices or the policies of the Central Valley Water Board and the
State Water Resources Control Board.
Historic Wastewater Treatment Facility and Reclamation
9. Prior to the recent upgrade activities, the WWTF consisted of a headworks with grinding
and coarse and fine screening, a flow meter, four aeration basins, two oxidation ponds,
and one 3.5-acre storage pond.
10. The Discharger’s self-monitoring reports from January 2007 through December 2009
characterize the discharge as follows. The monthly averages for flow and electrical
conductivity (EC) are based on data from June 2008 through December 2009 due to
problems with data collection/measurement prior to June 2008.
Historic Effluent Quantity and Quality
Constituent/Parameter1 Flow BOD EC
Units2 mgd mg/L µmhos/cm
Range 0.21–1.5 10–102 672–784
Average 0.69 42 722
1. BOD = 5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand; EC = Electrical Conductivity
2. mgd = million gallons per day; mg/L = milligrams per liter; µmhos/cm = micromhos per centimeter
From January 2009 through June 2010, the average EC value of the effluent has
decreased and averaged about 675 µmhos/cm.
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -3-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
11. Wastewater was discharged to an approximately 114-acre spray field just west of the
WWTF using spray irrigation cannons. During the upgrade of the WWTF, the spray field
area acreage was reduced to about 85 acres. The historic spray field area was not
planted with a crop but contained native vegetation and pasture grasses. The resulting
vegetation was periodically plowed into the soil or grazed by livestock.
WWTF Upgrade Project
12. For the purposes of this Order, the upgraded tertiary WWTF includes the wastewater
collection system, the treatment system, effluent storage ponds, effluent distribution
piping, lined sludge storage area, and the Discharger’s onsite Use Area (spray fields
and crops).
13. Improvements to the WWTF include: upgrade of the existing headworks (new influent
sewer lines, new influent flow metering and new fine/coarse bar screens);
construction/installation of an extended aeration basin; two new secondary clarifiers;
coagulation of clarified effluent; six continuous backwash sand filters; an ultraviolet light
disinfection chamber; three new storage ponds; two new sludge dewatering centrifuges;
and conversion of an existing treatment pond to a dewatered sludge storage area. The
WWTF will produce an effluent anticipated to meet coliform levels of 2.2 Most Probable
Number per 100 milliliters (MPN/100 mL) and a total nitrogen concentration of less than
10 mg/L.
14. Tertiary treated effluent from the WWTF will be recycled and/or disposed of at the
181-acre Use Area west and southwest of the WWTF, as shown in Attachment A. The
term Use Area, as used herein, includes the Prison’s existing 85-acre onsite spray field
area upon which tertiary treated water will be disposed of, and the Prison’s 96-acre
onsite farmland upon which tertiary treated water will be recycled for irrigation of crops.
Additionally, tertiary effluent will be delivered to the Tehachapi-Cummings County Water
District for distribution under a Master Reclamation Permit. The effluent will be used to
irrigate the Stallion Springs Golf Course southwest of the WWTF, as shown in
Attachment A. Additional potential Reclamation Areas include sod farms and/or green
belts, as shown in Attachment A. The term Reclamation Area, as used herein, includes
the Stallion Springs Golf Course and sod farms to which Tehachapi-Cummings County
Water District will distribute tertiary treated water to be recycled for irrigation.
15. The WWTF is designed for continuous operation with backup systems for component
malfunction and primary power outage. All critical mechanical components will have
duplex or redundant backup units. In the event of a malfunction, the backup units will
automatically be started by the system. A standby power generator will provide power to
the headworks and alarm system in case of a power outage. There is adequate
emergency storage to meet Title 22 reliability and redundancy requirements.
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -4-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
Sludge Management and Biosolids Disposal
16. Sludge as used herein means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues generated during
the treatment of industrial and domestic sewage in the wastewater treatment facility.
Sludge includes solids removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater
treatment processes, but not grit or screening material generated at the headworks.
Biosolids as used herein means sludge that has undergone treatment and subsequently
been tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially useful and legally used
pursuant to federal and state regulations as a soil amendment for agriculture,
silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation.
17. The Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent for Biosolids Discharge to Land dated
22 January 2010 to obtain coverage for a proposed discharge of sludge under State
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Water Quality Order No. 2004-
0012-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to
Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicutural, Horticultural, and Land
Reclamation Activities (General Order 2004-0012-DWQ). The Discharger proposed to
remove approximately 2,500 tons of sludge that had accumulated in the former
treatment ponds, dewater the sludge with a centrifuge, and then dry the sludge in a
3.6-acre clay-lined sludge treatment/storage area (previously a treatment pond). The
resulting biosolids are to be used as a soil amendment on land owned by the
Discharger.
18. The Discharger was issued a Notice of Applicability (NOA) on 15 May 2010 for coverage
under General Order 2004-0012-DWQ. The NOA is for the discharge of sludge from the
former treatment ponds and does not cover discharges of sludge generated from the
ongoing operation of the tertiary WWTF. The NOA will be terminated at the conclusion
of the sludge removal and application project. The Discharger submitted a Pre-
Application report on 3 June 2010 indicating a total of 2,127 tons of Class B biosolids
would be applied to 60 acres at a rate of 35.4 tons per acre.
19. The Discharger proposes to dewater and store sludge generated from the upgraded
tertiary WWTF with a centrifuge and then discharge the dewatered sludge for storage to
a 3.6-acre clay-lined storage area that was formerly a wastewater treatment pond
located adjacent the upgraded WWTF. The Discharger’s consulting engineer provided
a 27 August 2010 signed and stamped memo that indicates the clay liner will confine
any leachate to the storage area. Additional information regarding the storage area
(thickness of clay liner, performance demonstration data, storm water controls) and the
proposed methods of treatment of the sludge is necessary. A Use Area Management
Plan is req

===PLANNED CHANGES===

