[Page 1]
8. According to the January 2005 RWD, the new WWTF consists of a headworks,
magnetic flow meter, extended aeration basin, clarifier, chlorine contact basin, a lined
storage pond, and four concrete lined sludge drying beds with decanting structures. The
WWTF has a design treatment capacity of 80,000 gpd. Secondary disinfected recycled
water is spray irrigated over 40 acres of land owned by the Discharger. A flow
schematic of the new WWTF and sprayfields (Use Area) is shown on Attachment B
which is made part of this Order.
9. The Discharger has a 10-year lease agreement with a local farmer to allow beef cattle to
graze on the 40 acre Use Area. The cattle typically graze the Use Area from March
through July.
10. In March 2005, the Discharger submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report to the
Department of Public Health (DPH) for the proposed recycled water project that includes
the discharge of secondary disinfected recycled water to 40 acre Use Area to grow
forage crops.
11. According to the November 2007 Construction Quality Assurance Certification Report
the storage pond was constructed with a 60-mil HDPE liner. The sludge drying beds are
concrete lined.
12. Tailwater management includes sprinkler application of secondary disinfected recycled
water at a rate of 0.25 inch/hour. The Use Area consists of rolling hills that have swale
type drainage areas. The Use Area has internal berms that intercept recycled water
runoff prior to it reaching the drainage areas and a tailwater collection system consisting
of eight tailwater pump stations at low points near the south boundary of the Use Area.
The tailwater pump stations are designed to return recycled water runoff back to the
effluent storage pond.
13. According to the RWD, stormwater management practices include, not irrigating the Use
Areas at least 24 hours before a predicted rainfall and not resuming irrigation until
48 hours after any rainfall to minimize the potential of surface runoff of recycled water.
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2013-0062 -3-
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
M

===PLANNED CHANGES===

