[Page 71]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of El Dorado Hills and serves
a population of approximately 40,000 through the use of the Facility and the Deer Creek
Wastewater Treatment Plant. The Facility has a design average dry weather flow capacity
of 4.0 MGD. The Facility produces reclaimed water for reuse in the Discharger’s reclaimed
water distribution system. When the Facility is not reclaiming wastewater, the Facility
discharges to Carson Creek in accordance with this Order. The Facility typically
discharges to the receiving water between November and April, and reclaims water
between May and October. During the time when the Facility is reclaiming wastewater
there are no discharges to the receiving water.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks with screening and grit
removal, two raw wastewater equalization tanks, two primary clarifiers, two activated
sludge basins with nitrification, two biological nutrient removal tanks, two secondary
clarifiers, two dissolved air flotation (DAF) basins, six Trident mixed-media (sand and
anthracite) tertiary filters, and an ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system. The Facility
also includes two ponds (Ponds 1 and 2), also known as the drain ponds, which are
lined with concrete and used for emergency storage of wastewater, storm water, filter
backwash water, and filtrate from the belt filter presses. Wastewater in the ponds may
be returned to the headworks. Secondary treated wastewater from the secondary
clarifiers is discharged to a 70 million gallon storage reservoir. Wastewater from the
reservoir is treated in the DAFs to remove algae growth and polymer and coagulant are
added prior to filtration and disinfection. Tertiary treated wastewater may be recycled in
the Discharger’s reclaimed water distribution system or discharged from Discharge
Point No. 001 to Carson Creek, a tributary to Cosumnes River within the San Joaquin
River watershed. The specifications and use of reclaimed water is covered under a
separate Master Reclamation Permit issued to the Discharger in accordance with Title
22 and the California Water Code. Sludge is thickened in a DAF, digested in two
anaerobic digesters, and dewatered by two belt filter presses.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 72]
EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2013-0003
EL DORADO HILLS WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078671
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 14, T9N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Carson
Creek, a wate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

