[Page 103]
No. 2006-0003-DWQ and any future revisions thereto. Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ
requires that all public agencies that currently own or operate sanitary sewer
systems apply for coverage under the general WDR’s.
d. Anaerobically Digestible Material. If the Discharger proposes to receive hauled-in
anaerobically digestible material for injection into an anaerobic digester for co-
digestion, the Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board and develop
and implement standard operating procedures (SOP’s) for this activity prior to
initiation of the hauling. If the Discharger is currently accepting anaerobically
digestible material for injection into an anaerobic digester for co-digestion, then
within 180 days of issuance of the Notice of Applicability, the Discharger shall
develop and implement SOP’s for this activity. The SOP’s shall address material
handling, including unloading, screening, or other processing prior to anaerobic
digestion; transportation; spill prevention; and spill response. In addition, the SOP’s
shall address avoidance of the introduction of materials that could cause
interference, pass-through, or upset of the treatment processes; avoidance of
prohibited material, vector control, odor control, operation and maintenance, and the
disposition of any solid waste segregated from introduction to the digester. The
Discharger shall provide training to its staff on the SOP’s and shall maintain records
for a minimum of 3 years for each load received, describing the hauler, waste type,
and quantity received. In addition, the Discharger shall maintain records for a
minimum of 3 years for the disposition, location, and quantity of accumulated pre-
digestion-segregated solid waste hauled off-site.
6. Other Special Provisions
a. Title 22, or Equivalent, Disinfection Requirements. For Dischargers of tertiary
treated wastewater that meet the eligibility criteria in section I.B.4, wastewater shall
be oxidized, coagulated (as needed), filtered, and adequately disinfected pursuant
to the DDW reclamation criteria, CCR, Title 22, division 4, chapter 3, (Title 22), or
equivalent.
7. Compliance Schedules
a. Methylmercury for the City of Lodi, White Slough Water Pollu

===PLANNED CHANGES===

