[Page 66]
2. City of Turlock RWQCF. The treatment system at the City of Turlock RWQCF is
designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 20 MGD; however, current average
flows to the facility are approximately 10.3 MGD. Preliminary and primary treatment
consists of influent screening, grit removal, and primary floatation. Secondary treatment
consists of activated biofiltration for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total
suspended solids (TSS) reduction and nitrification, and secondary clarification. Tertiary
treatment consists of high rate clarification with chemical addition and cloth disk filters.
Disinfection is achieved with chlorination with dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. The
City of Turlock RWQCF provides up to 2 MGD of recycled water for cooling purposes to
the Walnut Energy Center, a 250 megawatt (MW) gas-fired cogeneration facility owned
by Turlock Irrigation District. The City of Turlock RWQCF also provides an average of
100,000 gallons per day (gpd) of recycled water for turf irrigation to Pedretti Park, a
20-acre regional sports complex owned by the City of Turlock. The City of Turlock
RWQCF currently discharges to the San Joaquin River.
Solids handling consists of gravity belt thickener, anaerobic digestion, sludge drying
beds, and beneficial reuse of biosolids via land application to farmland and co-compost
for public distribution.
Order R5-2015-0027 (NPDES Permit No. CA0078948) regulates the City of Turlock’s
discharge to the San Joaquin River and also includes recycling specifications,
groundwater limitations, emergency storage basin operating requirements, pretreatment
requirements, and sludge/biosolids treatment or discharge specifications. This Order only
regulates the discharge from the City of Turlock RWQCF to the Delta-Mendota Canal
and does not duplicate the requirements in Order R5-2015-0027.
3. City of Modesto WQCF. The treatment system at the City of Modesto WQCF consists of
two separate primary and secondary treatment facilities. The primary treatment plant
consists of screening, grit removal, and primary clarification. Sludge from the clarifiers is
transferred to thickeners, then processed and stabilized through anaerobic digesters.
Digested sludge is transferred to holding tanks where it is periodically drawn to unlined
drying beds, with supernatant flows routed to the septage disposal station for blending
with influent wastewater. The City of Modesto applies the stabilized sludge as a soil
amendment on their 2,526 acre ranch, which is regulated by separate WDR
Order 94-030.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 67]
City of Turlock Regional Water Quality Control Facility ORDER R5-2016-0010
City of Modesto Water Quality Control Facility NPDES NO. CA0085316
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the secondary treatment facility, where
approximately half of the primary effluent receives treatment with fixed film reactors and
then is combined with primary effluent in an aerated recirculation channel. Flow in the
recirculation channel is then distributed to three parallel facultative ponds for further
treatment, and then transferred to one of two storage ponds before being discharged or
applied to the City’s 2,525-acre ranch at agronomic rates.
The City of Modesto is in the process of upgrading the Facility by constructing a two-step
membrane bioreactor (MBR) process that includes an aerated activated sludge process
and a membrane separation process. An oxidation ditch provides activated sludge
biological treatment, reducing BOD and providing nitrogen removal (i.e.,
nitrification/denitrification). Ultraviolet light (UV) radiation disinfects the filtered
wastewater prior to storage or discharge. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment
facilities (2.3 MGD) was completed on 1 July 2010. Phase 2, which provides a tertiary
treatment capacity of 14.9 MGD was completed in July 2015 and testing is currently
underway. Phases 3 – 5 are planned for the future with a full build-out tr

===PLANNED CHANGES===

