[Page 65]
1. Facility Treatment Processes.
a. Required Processes
• Influent flow meter
• Screening;
• Biological treatment within oxidation ditches that include nitrification and
denitrification;
• Secondary clarification; three secondary clarifiers;
• Granular medium filtration; and
• Disinfection with ultraviolet (UV) light.
b. Auxiliary Processes
• Chemical coagulation and rapid mix flocculation
• Maturation ponds to equalize flow and effluent quality;
• Dissolved air flotation (DAF) to remove algae that grows in the maturation
ponds;
• Emergency Storage Basin with a compacted clay liner and an HDPE liner,
capable of holding approximately 79 million gallons, is provided to hold all
effluent that does not meet discharge requirements;
• Two existing and a third proposed Tertiary Storage Basin (TSB - capacity of 90
MG each). One existing TSB is fully lined and the other is partially lined with
HDPE. The proposed TSB will be fully lined with HDPE.
2. Biosolids Treatment and Disposal
• Sludge is dewatered using a centrifuge.
• Dried sludge is hauled to a landfill.
• The Facility produces approximately 1,106 dry metric tons of biosolids, annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids are regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
3. Groundwater Monitoring Network
• Five Groundwater Monitoring Wells are located on site (MW-1, MW-2, MW-3, MW-
4, and MW-5).
• Groundwater monitoring of the WWTRF is required under Master Reclamation
Permit R5-2005-0040-01 for the City of Lincoln.
4. Tertiary treated effluent is either discharged to Auburn Ravine Creek at Discharge Point
001 or to on-site and off-site reclamation areas (regulated by WDR Order R5-2005-
0041-01). The Discharger has the ability to divert tertiary treated effluent to the tertiary
storage basins to store recycled water, store final effluent during downstream flood
events, and/or store effluent that does not meet requirements of this Order (e.g.,
receiving water temperature limits). Because the Facility is able to temporarily store
tertiary treated effluent and discharge it at a later date, there are times when no
discharge to Auburn Ravine Creek at Discharge Point 001 is occurring and there are
times when the discharge to Auburn Ravine Creek exceeds the regulated flow capacity
of the treatment works (e.g., flow is being discharged directly from the treatment process
and stored, treated effluent is being discharged from the tertiary storage basins). The
outfall at Discharge Point 001 currently possesses a maximum hydraulic capacity of
25 MGD, as a daily average.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 66]
CITY OF LINCOLN ORDER R5-2018-0081-01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084476
During the term of Order R5-2014-0007, the Discharger completed a Facility expansion
project, which increased the design average dry weather flow capacity from 4.2 MGD to
5.9 MGD and the outfall capacity at Discharge Point 001 from 13 MGD to 25 MGD in
order to accommodate regionalization with the Placer County Sewer Maintenance
District 1 (SMD1) Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). The Discharger provided the
Central Valley Water Board with documents certifying the maximum daily hydraulic
capacity at Discharge Point 001 has been designed for up to 25 MGD, as a maximum
daily average flow rate (peak daily discharge flow). The plant capacity was increased
through the addition of the following treatment units:
a. Two influent pumps and additional headworks improvements;
b. One anoxic basin and oxidation ditch complex;
c. Two secondary clarifiers;
d. Modifications to the maturation ponds’ effluent structures;
e. Two filter cells; and
f. Effluent pumping station improvements.
5. Order R5-2014-0007 erroneously used an average daily discharge flow of 12.2 MGD for
calculation of mass limitations for BOD , TSS, and ammonia. Because the
5
antidegradation analysis assessed the impacts of a maximum discharge of 8.4 MGD
ADWF, mass limitations should have been based on 8.4 MGD.
6. The Facility is preparing for a capacity expansion to accommodate planned growth at the
Bickford Ranch housing subdivision estimated to be completed by 2020.
• Current design flow is 5.9 MGD.
• Phase 1 expansion to 7.1 MGD to be completed in 2020.
• Phase 2 expansion to 8.0 MGD may occur during this permit term.
• Antidegradation Analysis has been completed up to 8.4 MGD as average dry
weather flow and 37.8 MGD as peak flow.
The design flow of the facility is determined by the flow limitations of the required
treatment processes. Due to the configuration of the facility and the ability to store and
reintroduce water from various locations throughout the facility, the discharge flow is
variable and does not represent the average dry weather flow to measure against the
flow capacity of the necessary treatment processes. Effluent limitations are dependent
on the proper operation of the required treatment processes. The influent flow to the
plant must, therefore, be limited by the design flow of the required treatment processes.
Therefore, average dry weather design flow discharge prohibitions (Waste Discharge
Requirements section III.F. 1 through 4) are all measured at the influent monitoring
location INF-001.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Sections 29 and 30, T11N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Disc

===PLANNED CHANGES===

