[Page 56]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the southeast portion of the City of Roseville and
portions of Placer County and the South Placer Municipal Utility District, and serves a population
of approximately 111,000. The Discharger owns and operates portions of the wastewater
collection system. Placer County and South Placer Municipal Utility District own and operate the
remaining portions of the wastewater collection system. The design average dry weather flow
capacity of the Facility is 18 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility system consists of a headworks (mechanically cleaned
bar screens, influent pump station, and grit chambers), primary clarifiers, and secondary
treatment consisting of nitrification and denitrification, aeration, secondary clarification, and
tertiary treatment. Tertiary treatment is provided by chemical coagulation with organic
polymers, followed by pH adjustment, filtration, ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection, and cascade
aeration.
Two on-site emergency storage basins are utilized to store influent during large storm events
to prevent overwhelming of the treatment process, to store partially treated wastewater, and
to prevent plant upsets by the influent that would be harmful to the treatment process. The
influent is stored in the emergency storage basins usually no more than 2 days and all of the
wastewater in the basins is re-routed through the plant for treatment. The smaller 2-acre
basin is concrete-lined and the larger 16-acre basin possesses a high-density polyethylene
(HDPE) liner.
Biosolids treatment consists of a gravity belt thickener, anaerobic digesters, a sludge holding
tank, and a belt filter press for dewatering. Biosolids are land applied at the Silva Ranch
application site in Sacramento County by the contractor Synagro Technologies, Inc. When
land application is not available or inappropriate (e.g., during the winter), biosolids are
disposed of at Allied Waste (Forward Landfill).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 9, T10N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Dry Creek, a
water of the United States and tributary to the Sacramento River via the Natomas East
Main Drainage Canal, at a point latitude 38° 43’ 53” N and longitude 121° 18’

===PLANNED CHANGES===

