[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger was formed in 2001 to manage environmental remediation activities at
Lincoln Center in Stockton, California resulting from historical releases from dry cleaning
facilities and a sewer leak at the site. Prior to formation of the trust, the named discharger
was The Settling Dry Cleaning Defendants, as defined by Consent Decree CIV-S-91 DFL
(GGH) filed 18 January 1996 with the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of California.
The Facility is a groundwater extraction and treatment system designed to remove volatile
organic compounds (VOC’s) from groundwater. The treatment system also treats residual
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 71]
LINCOLN CENTER ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION TRUST ORDER R5-2026-0035
GROUNDWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM NPDES CA0084255
fluids generated during the continuing investigation, remediation, and monitoring activities
at the site. Constituents of concern in the influent groundwater related to the cleanup
activities performed by the Discharger include tetrachloroethylene and its breakdown
products trichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, and trans-1,2-dichloroethylene.
Additional constituent of concern not related to the cleanup activities performed by the
Discharger but reported in the influent groundwater include benzene, ethylbenzene,
methyl tertiary butyl ether, toluene, total petroleum hydrocarbons (as gasoline), and
xylene. The Discharger conducted a site-specific groundwater model to evaluate plume
capture of the Facility prior to adoption of Order R5-2016-0002 and determined that
plume capture could be maintained at pumping rates between 0.08 MGD and 0.25 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of an influent equalization tank and three liquid-phase
granulated activated carbon (LGAC) absorption canisters, two ion-exchange vessels
(to use on an as-needed basis), and an effluent equalization tank. The activated
carbon is regenerated or disposed of off-site. The Facility originally included a low-
profile air stripper prior to the LGAC for VOC removal. In addition, a vapor phase
granular activated carbon vessel was used to absorb the VOC’s prior to discharge to
the atmosphere. Since initiation of operation of the groundwater cleanup in 1999, the
constituents of concern (i.e., primarily tetrachloroethylene and its breakdown
products trichloroethylene, cis-1,2- dichloroethylene, and trans-1,2-dichloroethylene)
have been reduced substantially. The significant reduction meant that the air stripper
wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

