[Page 64]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Yuba City and serves a population of
approximately 53,000. In addition, the Facility accepts septage from unsewered portions of Sutter
and Yuba Counties. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 10.5 MGD.
Municipal and industrial wastewater treated at the Facility is either discharged to the Feather River
or to disposal ponds within the levee on the eastern side of the Feather River. The Facility also
uses treated wastewater for multiple processes including the spray system on primary and
secondary clarifiers and belt filter presses, makeup water for polymers, reheating oxygen, and
hosing down facilities in addition to landscape irrigation of 3.5 acres at the Facility. The ROWD
estimates the seasonal dependent annual average daily volume used for reuse to be 0.5 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of bar screening; aerated grit removal, primary
clarification, pure oxygen aeration, secondary clarification, and chlorine disinfection. For
discharges to the Feather River at Discharge Points 001 and 003, wastewater is
dechlorinated using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge. The pure oxygen aeration process at
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 65]
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER R5-2019-0017-01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079260
the Facility, which includes three covered high purity oxygen basins, was designed to handle
high and variable biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) loadings from local food processing
facilities, commercial facilities, and residential areas. Among other benefits such as
reductions in odor and sludge volumes, the primary advantage of pure oxygen aeration
processes is that they provide a higher efficiency in oxygen transfer compared to conventional
atmospheric air. Decreases in pH are typical for pure oxygen aeration systems as
wastewater becomes supersaturated with carbon dioxide, so diffused air stripping is used to
remove majority of saturated carbon dioxide and sodium hydroxide is used, if needed, in the
chlorine contact basins. Additionally, approximately 50 percent of the BOD loading to the
Facility is from one significant industrial user (Sunsweet Growers) that discharges a
nutritionally dilute industrial discharge. Polyammonium phosphate is added at the inlet box to
aeration basins, as needed, to ensure adequate carbon to nitrogen to phosphorus (C:N:P)
ratio in the activated sludge (pure oxygen) process.
All storm water is directed to an on-site storm water basin where it may be directed to the
headworks. The Discharger is permitted for storm water under the State Water Board’s
Industrial Storm Water General Order.
Biosolids are thickened using rotary drum thickeners and then anaerobically digested in two
digesters. Digested biosolids are dewatered by belt filter press and disposed of off-site as
landfill cover material. The facility produces approximately 1,200 dry metric tons of dried
biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by
U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
The Facility is equipped with three composite bed biofilters that are used to control odors from
headworks, primary clarification, and dewatering building operations.
Secondary-level treated effluent from the Facility may be discharged to the Feather River via
a multiport diffuser at Discharge Point 001 or a direct discharge at Discharge Point 003.
Treated effluent may also be directed to Discharge Point 002, a series of six disposal ponds
located within the Feather River levee. Each disposal pond is roughly 1 million square feet in
size; the total capacity of the six disposal ponds is approximately 179 million gallons. At the
ponds, the depth to groundwater is approximately 30 feet. The Facility can discharge to any
pond at any time. There is no operational plan on which disposal pond to use and when. The
Facility’s historical goal is to have all disposal ponds dry by 1 November of each year
provided an operational outfall.
The six disposal ponds are at varying elevations such that the flow will cascade from the first
pond to the last pond depending on the water level of the pond (Pond 1 is the highest
elevation and Pond 6 is the lowest elevation). When flooding occurs Pond 6 will receive flood
waters first, then Pond 5, etc.
In October 2011, the Feather River at Shanghai Falls eroded to form a new path for water.
Subsequently, the high water from storms in 2016 and 2017 and the Oroville Dam Incident
increased the erosion significantly. In order to ensure that discharges to the Feather River via
the diffuser at Discharge Point 001 receive adequate dilution, this Order prohibits discharges
at Discharge Point 00

[Page 66]
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the Feather River,
a water of the United States at a point latitude 39° 05’ 29” N and longitude
121° 35’ 53” W via the diffuser on the west side of the Feather River. According to the
mixing zone analysis provided as part of Order R5-2007-0134, the multi-port diffuser is
located above the normal bank of the Feather River. The diffuser consists of 40 ports
each of 3 inches in diameter, located 4 feet on center. The total diffuser length is 156
feet.
3. The treated municipal wastewater may also be discharged to one of six disposal ponds
located within the floodplain of the Feather River to the Feather River at a point latitude
39º 04’ 53” N and longitude 121º 35’ 56” W at Discharge Point 002. These are
discharges to land, except during flood conditions where the ponds can become
inundated by the Feather River and thus would be surface water discharges.
4. Treated municipal wastewater may also be discharged at Discharge Point 003 to the
Feather River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 39° 05’ 27” N and longitude
121° 35’ 51” W via direct discharge pipe on the east bank of the Feather River, north of
Pond 1.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R5-2013-0094-01 for discharges from Discharge Points
001 and 002 and representative monitoring data for discharges from Discharge Points 001
and 002 (Monitoring Location EFF-001/EFF-002) from the term of Order R5-2013-0094-01
are summarized in the following table.
Table F-2. Histor

===PLANNED CHANGES===

