[Page 76]
1. Rehabilitation of the headwork grinder.
2. Installation of a biological selector.
3. New aerators and DO-control system in oxidization ditches.
4. New mixed-liquor recycle pump station.
5. Replacement of clarifier weirs and baffles. Baffles are now density current
baffles.
6. Replacement of all RAS, WAS, and scum pumps, motors, and check valves.
7. Installation of an additional travel bridge filter. The original filter was also
replaced with a rail-mounted backwash system to match that of the new filter.
8. Chlorine contact basin slide gates were replaced with fiberglass-reinforced
plastic gates.
9. Replacement of aerator in northern aerated sludge storage basin (SSB1). The
aerator in the southern aerated sludge storage basin (SSB2) was replaced in
2019.
10. Replacement of sludge transfer pump, motor, and check valve.
11. Miscellaneous improvements to support facilities and control systems.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility provides tertiary treatment utilizing a headworks with Auger Monster®
and Parshall flume with ultrasonic level sensor; anoxic biological selector; two
parallel oxidation ditches; mixed liquor recycle pump station; two parallel secondary
clarifiers; two parallel traveling bridge filters; chlorine gas chlorination; chlorine
contact chamber; sulfur dioxide (SO2) gas dechlorination; two aerated sludge
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 77]
Shasta County Service Area No. 17 ORDER R5-2024-0026
Cottonwood Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0081507
storage basins; and three sludge drying beds. Effluent discharges through a diffuser
to Cottonwood Creek,
Solids handling: The two aerated sludge storage basins (SSB) total 4.9 acre-feet
(AF); the basins are asphalt and shotcrete-lined. The northern basin (SSB 1) is
4.3 AF and the southern basin (SSB 2) is 0.63 AF.
For SSB1, the plan view area at top of bank is 37,430 square feet (sf). The working
sludge depth is 7 feet (maintain 2-feet of freeboard in basin). The berm elevation is
420 feet msl and the invert elevation is 411 feet. SSB1 was expanded and lined in
2002. The liner consists of 12-inches of clay with a 3-inch asphalt floor. Side slopes
consist of 3-inch shotcrete with an 8-inch thickened shotcrete section extending 1-
foot vertically above the asphalt-shotcrete joint. Prior to construction of the clay liner,
the bottom 8-inches of soil was scarified and re-compacted. The hydraulic
conductivity is unknown.
For SSB2, the plan view area at top of bank is 11,500 sf. The working sludge depth
is 5.5 feet (maintain 2-feet of freeboard in basin). The berm elevation is 418.5 feet
msl and the invert elevation is 411 feet. SSB2 was lined in 2008. The liner consists
of a 60-mil High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) geomembrane underlain by 16-oz
geotextile. Prior to construction of the liner, the existing subgrade was rolled with a
smooth drum roller.
The storage of sludge in the SSBs allows solids to be stored over the winter months
and dried in the summer prior to disposal. Only one pond is dewatered each year;
the ponds each receive the equivalent of one year of sludge production prior to
dewatering.
The three sludge drying beds are concrete-lined and contain an underdrain system
that returns drainage from the drying beds to the downstream end of the headworks
via drainage pump station. Biosolids are hauled annually to the Anderson Landfill for
final disposal. The facility produces approximately 100 dry metric tons of dried
biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by
U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
Stormwater: The only stormwater specific infrastructure at the Facility is curbing
which keeps stormwater from being exposed to wastewater treatment equipment
and processes. In general, stormw

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes (2025-2030)
Planned improvements and changes for the years 2025-2030 include collection
system upgrades and an effluent disposal feasibility study. Intermediate to long-term
improvements for the approximate yearly timeline of 2030-2040 include enlarging
the chlorine contact basin, installing new chemical dosing and monitoring equipment,
northern aerated sludge storage basin (SSB1) modifications, and sludge drying beds
modifications. All planned improvements are dependent upon the availability of
funding.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9
[Page 81]
Shasta County Service Area No. 17 ORDER R5-2024-0026
Cottonwood Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0081507
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this secti