[Page 1]
10. The RWD and Final Geotechnical Investigation present information on site conditions, the
existing wastewater treatment process and quality, planned plant upgrades, and the
conceptual design of the Expansion Project. Attachment B, which is attached hereto and
made a part of this Order by reference, depicts a plan view of the existing WWTF and
Expansion Project (new pond area), as depicted in the RWD and the Final geotechnical
Investigation. However, the design presented in the RWD and Final Geotechnical
Investigation has been changed. A new technical report describing the construction of the
new pond and a new RWD documenting the expanded WWTF and the corresponding Use
Area for the recycling of treated wastewater is required as stated in Provision H.13.
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2008-0072 -3-
CITY OF MCFARLAND WWTF
KERN COUNTY
Existing Wastewater Treatment Facility
11. The existing WWTF consists of a headworks with two mechanical bar screens and an
influent meter. The wastewater is then routed to four aerated lagoons (Nos. 1, 1A, 2 and 3)
equipped with small bubble diffused-air aeration devices. Wastewater is pumped to the
Use Area that consists of two unlined storage ponds that comprised about 30 acres or
about 236 acre-feet of storage (new pond under construction). Additionally, recycled water
is used for irrigation on approximately 270 acres of adjacent farmland. Two small effluent
storage ponds are located at the southwest corner of the WWTF and are used to deliver
effluent to the adjacent farm fields.
12. Wastewater is collected from the central and northern portions of the City and transported
to the WWTF in an 18-inch trunk line that trends east to west along Perkins Avenue. A new
24-inch line was constructed in 2001 to serve the southern portion of the City. The 24-inch
line trends

[Page 2]
13. Influent enters at the headworks, which house two screen/compactors (one connected to
the 18-inch line, the other to the 24-inch line), an open channel flow meter, and a splitter
box. Solids from the screen/compactor are dewatered and deposited in a trash-bin.
14. From the headworks, influent is discharged by gravity to Aeration Lagoon Nos. 1 or 1A (or
both) and then flows by gravity into Aeration Lagoon No. 2 for further aeration and solids
settling. The partially treated wastewater is then pumped to Aeration Lagoon No. 3 before
being sent to the disposal ponds or to the adjacent farm fields for water recycling. Lagoon
Nos. 1, 2, and 3 have dimensions of 380 feet by 200 feet, while lagoon No. 1A is slightly
larger at 376 feet by 206 feet.
15. Effluent from the Aeration Lagoons is discharged to the eastern Disposal Ponds, which
comprise approximately 30 acres and have a capacity of approximately 236 acre feet.
16. Self-monitoring reports indicate that winter flows are not higher than summer flows,
demonstrating insignificant inflow and infiltration to the collection system during winter
months.
17. Self-monitoring data from January 2007 to December 2007 characterize the discharge as
follows:
Constituent/Parameter

[Page 3]
20. The design of the Expansion Project is not complete; however, conceptually the expansion
project consists of expanding the capacity of the disposal ponds by adding another 30-acre
disposal pond east of the existing disposal pond, and adding acreage to the existing
recycled water Use Area.
21. The initial design to expand the disposal pond was presented in the 17 May 2005 Final
Geotechnical Investigation prepared by BSK. The report proposed expanding the existing
pond by removing the eastern wall of the pond and replacing it further to the east. The
additional storage was to be about 20 acres or about 125 acre-feet. Regional Water Board
staff concurred with report findings in a 22 May 2006 letter to the Discharger.
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2008-0072 -5-
CITY OF MCFARLAND WWTF
KERN COUNTY
22. A 23 June 2006 McFarland Storage Pond Expansion – Progress Update prepared by Boyle
indicates 100-acres of alfalfa in combination with the disposal ponds would be required for
recycling or disposing of 1.55 mgd of treated wastewater. The Use Area was to consist of
a 15-acre field in the central portion of the WWTF property, a 75-acre field north of the
WWTF, and 80-acres of the 160-acre vineyard would be converted to alfalfa.
23. The Discharger changed the design of the proposed pond construction and Use Area and
has constructed a separate 30-acre disposal pond east of the existing ponds. The operator
indicated the new plan would remove the remaining 15 acres of alfalfa from the central
portion of the property. This would leave the 75-acre parcel north of the WWTF, and the
160-acre vineyard south of the WWTF for recycling of treated wastewater. The 80-acres of
grapes has yet to be converted to alfalfa, and the Plant Operator indicated the discharger is
addressing purchasing/leasing additional land instead of converting the vineyard to alfalfa.
The revised design of the ponds appears to be more than adequate to service the needs of
the WWTF, but the Discharger will need to provide a technical report (RWD) as required in
Provision H.13, that will include revised water and nutrient balances to illustrate that the
Discharger has adequate pond volume and land for recycling.
24. Based on adding another 30-acre disposal pond, the storage capacity will increase from
about 236 acre feet to about 470 acre feet. A water balance provided by the Discharger in
June 2006 indicated a minimum of 100 acres of alfalfa were required for wastewater
recycling in addition to the then-planned 361 acre-feet of disposal pond storage.
25. It is anticipated that effluent mineral and metals quality characterized in Finding 17 for the
existing WWTF will be similar to the effluent quality resulting from the Expansion Project.
Sanitary Sewer Overflows
26. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary

===PLANNED CHANGES===

