[Page 69]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Cottonwood, located
approximately 15 miles south of the city of Redding, along Interstate 5. The Facility serves
approximately 1,100 residences and small commercial customers. The design average
dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 0.43 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks with bar screen and
Parshall flume with ultrasonic level sensor; two, parallel oxidation ditches with aerators;
two, parallel secondary clarifiers with skimmers; traveling-bridge sand filter unit; chlorine
disinfection with chlorine gas; serpentine chlorine contact chamber; dechlorination by
addition of sulfur dioxide; an outfall line and diffuser to Cottonwood Creek; a northern
4.3 acre-feet aerated sludge setting basin, a southern 0.63 acre-feet aerated sludge
settling basin; and four, sludge/sand drying beds. After being processed at the Facility,
biosolids are characterized and disposed at appropriate landfill facilities.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 22, T29N, R4W, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Currently, treated municipal and industrial wastewater is discharged from Discharge
Point No. 001 to Cottonwood Creek, a water of the United States, at a point Latitude
40° 22’ 40” and Longitude 122° 16’ 15”. Cottonwood Creek is tribut

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. The Discharger is currently completing the installation of the required dosing control
systems for the chlorination/dechlorination process at the treatment plant. Controls
will be automatically operated based on flow and/or concentration.
2. The Discharger is currently completing the installation of electronic, real-time
residual chlorine analyzers for the chlorination/dechlorination processes. The
devices will continuously measure and record the chlorine residual and automatically
notify the treatment plant operator of problems and potential effluent violations. The
devices will have the sensitivity and accuracy to demonstrate compliance with
effluent limits for chlorine residual contained in this Order.
3. The Discharger has completed a mixing zone/dilution study, associ