[Page 54]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the City of Galt Wastewater Treatment Plant and
Reclamation Facility (Facility), a Publicly-Owned Treatment Works servicing a population of
approximately 24,000. The Facility is currently a 3.0 million gallon per day (mgd) average dry
weather flow (ADWF) facility that provides a tertiary level of treatment for municipal
wastewater from the City of Galt.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The major wastewater treatment facilities at the Facility have been in place since 1991. The
facilities include coarse bar screening, grit removal, extended aeration in two oxidation
ditches, solids settling in two secondary clarifiers, cloth media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection. Recent major improvement projects have included the addition of filtration and
UV light disinfection systems in 2011. The wastewater treatment process schematic and
solids schematic can be found in Attacment C of this order.
The Discharger is in the process of constructing nitrification/denitrification improvements,
which began in 2014 and will be completed in 2016. These improvements include
construction of a third oxidation ditch and clarifier and improvements to all three oxidation
ditches to allow for reliable simultaneous nitrification/denitrification. The immediate
improvements also include minor upgrades to improve overall facility performance and
reliability. One key improvement will be the installation of automated diversion facilities that
will allow the Discharger to utilize the lined Auxiliary Basin for biosolids, dewatering filtrate,
sludge lagoon decant, sludge dewatering bed decant, and influent flow equalization.
[Page 55]
CITY OF GALT ORDER R5-2015-0123
CITY OF GALT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND RECLAMATION FACLITY NPDES NO. CA0081434
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
Solids are aerobically digested within the oxidation ditches, which are operated with a mean
cell residence time (MCRT) of at least 25 days to stabilize the wastewater solids. A portion of
the stabilized sludge is removed (“wasted”) from the process on a daily basis to maintain the
desired mixed liquor suspended solids concentration in the oxidation ditches. This portion of
the solids stream is called waste activated sludge (WAS) and is pumped into the two existing,
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) membrane-lined storage lagoons.
Sludge is directed to one lagoon at a time. As the lagoons are filling, supernatant is decanted
from the sludge and is returned to the oxidation ditches for further treatment. Once full, solids
in the lagoons are blended using the mixers installed in each basin to create a uniformly
mixed sludge that is sent to the Facility’s dewatering beds. Supplemental mechanical
dewatering equipment is also being installed as part of the improvement project to increase
the dewatering capacity of the Facility.
The combination of (1) stabilization of solids within the oxidation ditches and the storage
lagoons, and (2) the Discharger’s disposal practices qualifies the biosolids as “Class B”
biosolids in accordance with the USEPA’s regulations as established in Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 40 Section 503.
A portion of the Discharger’s effluent is used to irrigate the land application area, which
consists of approximately 164 acres of agricultural fields located adjacent to the main Facility
site. Animal feed crops are grown in the land application area, and “Undisinfected Secondary
Recycled Water” is used for irrigation. With the recent construction of the dewatering system,
the Discharger has begun applying solids via surface spreading, followed by tilling, to
incorporate the biosolids into the soil of the land application area fields. The application of
undisinfected secondary recycled water and biosolids to the Discharge’s land application area
is regulated by separate WDR Order R5-2015-0125.
Undisinfected secondary effluent reused for irrigation is typically directed from the filter
influent pump station to the Effluent Storage Reservoir where it is pumped to the land
application area. The Discharger can also direct disinfected tertiary effluent to the Effluent
Storage Reservoir for irrigation. The Effluent Storage Reservoir is the primary storage facility,
and currently has approximately 220 acre-feet of available storage capacity, with 2 feet of
freeboard. Flows from the Effluent Storage Reservoir may also be directed to three onsite
ponds for additional storage prior to being returned to the Effluent Storage Reservoir. (The
Discharger historically operated four storage ponds; however, Pond 2 has recently been
repurposed for a solar facility.) Because the Discharger has the ability to discharge any flows
not needed for irrigation to surface water under this Order, the storage volume available in the
Effluent Storage Reservoir is more than adequate to meet the needs of the land application
area, so the storage ponds are rarely used. Furthermore, in the event of an emergency the
Effluent Storage Reservoir and storage ponds may be used to store untreated or partially
treated wastewater. Under these circumstances all wastewater within the ponds is returned
to the Facility headworks for treatment.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 9, T5N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Laguna
Creek, a water of the United States and tributary to the Cosumnes River at a point
latitude 38° 18’ 14.88” N and longitude 121° 19’ 55.87” W.
[Page 56]
CI

===PLANNED CHANGES===

