[Page 68]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Stockton, Port of Stockton and
surrounding unincorporated areas of San Joaquin County and serves a population of
approximately 326,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 55 million gallons
per day (mgd). The Facility’s average daily inflow flow rate is approximately 28 mgd and the
average effluent discharge rate is approximately 26 mgd. The City’s service area encompasses
over 116,000 sewer connections and approximately 900 miles of sanitary sewer lines. Sources of
wastewater in the service area are primarily domestic, but also include both commercial and
industrial connections. In total, there are 51 significant industrial users (SIUs) in the service area.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is situated on both the eastern and western banks of the San Joaquin River. The
plant is connected via a bridge over the River. The plant has primary treatment, secondary
treatment, and sludge processing facilities east of the river. Water is then routed over the
River for further secondary treatment at secondary waste stabilization ponds and constructed
wetlands followed by tertiary treatment and disinfection facilities. Final treated effluent is
discharged to the San Joaquin River via siphon to a submerged open pipe outfall.
At the section of the plant east of the San Joaquin River, treatment facilities include screening,
grit removal, raw sewage pumps, and primary sedimentation where settling is enhanced. After
wastewater passes through the primary clarifiers it is pumped to the biotower treatment
process and then routed to the secondary clarifiers. Effluent from the secondary clarifiers is
pumped from the east side of the Facility beneath the San Joaquin River to the pond system.
Additional secondary treatment and water storage is available in the ponds on the west side of
the river. Secondary and tertiary treatment is also available in engineered treatment wetlands.
The use of the ponds and wetlands for treatment or diversion past the ponds and wetlands to
other tertiary treatment are optional flow paths dependent on a variety of operational factors.
Effluent from the ponds, wetlands, or diversion structures (as applicable) is then routed to the
tertiary treatment system.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 69]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2014-0070
REGIONAL WASTEWATER CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079138
Tertiary treatment consists of the nitrifying biotower for ammonia removal, then pumping to the
dissolved air floatation units where removal efficiencies are enhanced through chemical
addition. The water is then routed through the duel media tertiary filters, and disinfected using
chlorination/dechlorination prior to discharge to the San Joaquin River. At the section of the
plant east of the San Joaquin River, solids from the primary and secondary sedimentation
processes are either routed to gravity thickeners, gravity belt thickeners or pumped to the
anaerobic digesters directly. After anaerobic digestion, sludge is routed to the sludge lagoon
or a holding tank. Digested solids are removed from the lagoons by a dredge or pumped
directly to holding tanks where they are further conditioned and dewatered using belt filter
presses. Dewatered solids are hauled off-site by a private contractor and routinely recycled on
agricultural lands as a source of nutrients and soil amendment. In an emergency, solids can
be used as daily cover for solid waste at the landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in T1, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this
Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the San
Joaquin River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 37° 56’ 15” N and longitude
121° 20’ 05” W.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Da

[Page 71]
Table F-3. CIP Improvement Projects
♦ Hypochlrorite, bisulfite, and support facilities ♦ Tertiary support building improvements
♦ Cold weather nitrifying biotower supply system ♦ Energy efficiency measures
♦ Site security upgrades ♦ Energy management system
♦ Headworks and raw sewage pump rehabilitation ♦ Secondary biotowers rehabilitation
♦ Auxiliary peak wet weather pump station and piping ♦ River crossing forcemain rehabilitation
♦ Secondary clarifier rehabilitation ♦ Connection of 60 KV to SCADA
♦ Fifth secondary clarifier ♦ Dual electrical feed for substation and switchgear
♦ Secondary effluent pump station replacement ♦ Main plant flood study
♦ Gravity sludge thickener rehabilitation ♦ Raw sewage pump AFD’s enclosure
♦ Gravity belt thickener improvements ♦ Roof repairs
♦ Dewatering facility replacement ♦ Gravity thickener MCC replacement
♦ Anaerobic digester rehabilitation ♦ Gravity thickener/sludge collector rehabilitation
♦ Sludge lagoon demolition ♦ Secondary clarifier collector rehabilitation
♦ Fat, oils, grease receiving station ♦ Cathodic protection
♦ Cogeneration – gas dryer ♦ Painting and coating
♦ Primary clarifier improvements ♦ Paving
♦ Wetlands rehabilitation and reconfiguration ♦ Telemetry
♦ Third nitrifying biotower ♦ Scum thickener replacement
♦ Tertiary filters rehabilitation ♦ Secondary effluent pump station installment
♦ Administration building expansion ♦ Dissolved air flotation units rehabilitation
♦ Laboratory building ♦ Tertiary 12 KV powerline evaluation
♦ Maintenance and collection building expansion ♦ PLC replacement at tertiary plant
♦ Operations building improvements ♦ Oxidation ponds rehabilitation
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 72]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER R5-2014-0070
REGIONAL WASTEWATER CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079138
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger recently completed construction of a permanent blending system that provides
a blend of secondary effluent with wetland effluent which is directly routed to the nitrifying
biotowers. This construction was performed in compliance with Cleanup and Abatement Order
R5-2011-0702.
On 9 August 2011, the Stockton City Council adopted Resolution No. 11-0221, which
approved and adopted the Regional Wastewater Control Facility Capital Improvement and
Energy Management Plan (CIP), prepared by Corollo Engineers, August 2011. The CIP
provides a framework for the repairs and