[Page 74]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Stockton, the Port of Stockton,
and surrounding urbanized San Joaquin County areas. The Facility serves a population of
approximately 326,000, and discharges intermittently up to 55 mgd tertiary-level treated
effluent to the San Joaquin River, within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. The Facility
average daily flow rate is approximately 31.7 mgd, and the maximum annual average
effluent discharge was 36.37 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is bifurcated by the San Joaquin River; the main facility (primary and
secondary treatment facilities, and sludge processing facilities) is located east of the
river and the tertiary treatment facility is located west of the river. At the main facility,
the primary treatment processes consist of screening, grit removal, and primary
sedimentation. The secondary treatment processes consist of high rate trickling filters
and secondary clarifiers. Sludge is removed from the primary and secondary
sedimentation processes to gravity thickeners for preliminary water removal, and then
pumped to anaerobic digesters. After digestion, the treated sludge is pumped to a
sludge lagoon where anaerobic digestion continues. A dredge is used to pump the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 75]
CITY OF STOCKTON ORDER NO. R5-2008-0154
REGIONAL WASTEWATER CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079138
concentrated material from the bottom of the lagoon to a belt filter press, and dewatered
biosolids are removed by a private contractor off-site for agricultural reuse.
From the main facility, the secondary-treated effluent is piped under the San Joaquin
River to the tertiary treatment facility, which consists of unlined facultative oxidation
ponds, engineered wetlands, two nitrifying biotowers, dissolved air flotation, mixed-
media filters, and chlorination/dechlorination facilities. Several of the facultative ponds
are operated in a stand-by mode of operation as necessary, to achieve improved
effluent quality by decreasing solids loading on the downstream treatment process, and
by maintaining stable ammonia loading to the nitrifying biotowers.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in T1N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of
this Order.
2. Tertiary-level treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001
to the San Joaquin River, a water of the United States at latitude 37o 56’ 15” N and
longitude 121o 20’ 05” W.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Moni

===PLANNED CHANGES===

