[Page 81]
II. FACILITIES DESCRIPTION
The City of Turlock provides sewerage service for the City of Turlock and the community
service districts of Denair and Keyes, and receives up to 2 MGD of primary treated
effluent from the City of Ceres. The Facility serves a population of approximately 91,000.
The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 20 million gallons per day (MGD).
The City of Modesto provides sewerage service for a population of approximately
272,000 for the City of Modesto, the community of Empire, and a portion of the City of
Ceres. The Facility consists of separate primary and tertiary treatment facilities. The
Facility consists of two different treatment facilities; a primary treatment facility and a
secondary/tertiary treatment facility located approximately 6.5 miles to the southwest of
the primary treatment facility.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. NVRRWP Facilities. The purpose of the NVRRWP project is to address water
supply shortages within the DPWD service area on the west side of the San
Joaquin River in San Joaquin, Stanislaus and Merced Counties, south of the
Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, and south of Delta (SOD) Central Valley
Project Improvemen

[Page 81]
2. City of Turlock RWQCF. The treatment system at the City of Turlock RWQCF
consists of screening, grit removal, primary flotation, secondary treatment
(activated sludge) for biochemical oxygen demand reduction and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 82]
City of Turlock Regional Water Quality Control Facility ORDER R5-2022-0034
City of Modesto Water Quality Control Facility NPDES CA0085316
nitrification/denitrification, secondary clarification, high-rate clarification with
chemical addition, tertiary treatment via cloth disk filters, chlorine disinfection and
sodium bisulfite dechlorination. The City of Turlock RWQCF also includes a 37.2
million-gallon clay-lined emergency storage basin, which allows for the diversion
and storage of primary effluent if necessary.
Solids handling consists of gravity belt thickener, anaerobic digestion, sludge
drying beds and beneficial reuse of biosolids via land application to farmland.
The City of Turlock currently provides up to 2 MGD of recycled water for cooling
purposes to the Walnut Energy Center, a 250-megawatt power plant owned and
operated by the Turlock Irrigation District (TID). The City of Turlock also provides
an average of 100,000 gallons per day for irrigation purposes at the Pedretti
Sports

[Page 82]
3. City of Modesto WQCF. The treatment system at the City of Modesto WQCF
consists of two separate primary and secondary treatment facilities. The primary
treatment plant consists of screening, grit removal, and primary clarification.
Sludge from the clarifiers is transferred to thickeners, then processed and
stabilized through anaerobic digesters. Digested sludge is transferred to holding
tanks where it is periodically drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant flows
routed to the septage disposal station for blending with influent wastewater. The
City of Modesto applies the stabilized sludge as a soil amendment on their 2,526-
acre ranch, which is regulated by separate WDR Order 94-030.
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the Jennings Road
secondary/tertiary treatment facility where the wastewater receives secondary
treatment for irrigation of pastureland (regulated by Order 99-112) or receives
tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light disinfection for discharge to the San Joaquin
River (regulated by Order R5-2017-0064) or discharge to the Delta-Mendota
Canal regulated by this Order. For the secondary treatment system,
approximately half of the primary effluent receives treatment with fixed film
reactors and then is combined with primary effluent in an aerated recirculation
channel. Flow in the recirculation channel is then distributed to three parallel
facultative ponds for further treatment, and then transferred to one of two storage
ponds before being applied to the City of Modesto’s 2,526-acre ranch at
agronomic rates.
The City of Modesto WQCF’s tertiary treatment facility consists of two parallel
two-step membrane bioreactor (MBR) facilities. The Phase 1A facility consists of
an oxidation ditch that provides activated sludge biological treatment, reducing
biochemical oxygen demand and providing nitrogen removal (i.e.,
nitrification/denitrification). The oxidation ditch is followed by membrane filtration
and ultraviolet light (UV) radiation that disinfects the filtered wastewater prior to
storage or discharge. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment facilities
(2.3 MGD) was completed on 1 July 2010. The Phase 2 facility consists of
aeration basins for activated sludge biological treatment followed by membrane
filtration and UV disinfection. The Phase 2 facility provides a tertiary treatment
capacity of 12.6 MGD, and was completed in the spring of 2017. The current total
tertiary filtration average dry weather flow capacity is 14.9 MGD. The tertiary
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 83]
City of Turlock Regional Water Quality Control Facility ORDER R5-2022-0034
City of Modesto Water Quality Control Facility NPDES CA0085316
treat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

