[Page 60]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
I
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Auburn and serves a population M
of approximately 13,800. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 1.67 million
gallons per day (MGD). Current flows through the Facility are approximately 1.0 MGD. I
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls N
The treatment system at the existing Facility consists of the following: A
 Headworks with mechanical screening and grit removal
R
 One HDPE-lined aeration pond (Pond 1A)
 Four clay-lined flow equalization ponds (Ponds 1B, 2, 3, and 4)
Y
 A lime feed system to adjust the water’s alkalinity
 One oxidation ditch providing biological treatment capable of nitrification and partial
D
denitrification
 Three circular secondary clarifiers
R
 Chemical feed facilities and a flocculation basin
 Seven deep-bed sand filters A
 Two UV disinfection channels
F
Screenings from the mechanical screen at the plant headworks are washed and compacted
before being sent to a landfill. The wastewater then enters a side flow weir structure where all T
flow in excess of a predetermined set point (currently around 1.3 mgd during the summer) is
automatically diverted to the pond diversion box and then to Pond 1A.
The WWTP’s pond system provides a combination of pre-aeration, flow equalization, and wet
weather flow storage. Pond 1A, where flow is initially routed after the headworks, contains
nine 7.5-horsepower aerators for odor control. The water level in Pond 1A is maintained at a
constant level by a weir box. Excess flow in Pond 1A flows automatically by gravity to Pond 4.
Pond 1A has an HPDE plastic liner system. When the flow to the secondary treatment
facilities drops below the predetermined set point (i.e., 1.3 MGD), a motorized valve
discharges flow from Pond 4 to make up the difference. Raw sewage flow from the City, plus
makeup flow from Pond 4, maintains the flow into the secondary treatment facilities at the
desired uniform rate.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 61]
CITY OF AUBURN ORDER R5-2016-0038
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077712
During the winter when infiltration and inflow (I/I) produce high flows, flow equalization and
storage volumes provided in Ponds 1A and 4 are not adequate. Additional storage capacity is
achieved by allowing Pond 1A to overflow into Pond 1B, or by diverting excess flows directly
from the pond diversion box to Ponds 2 and 3. Ponds 2 and 3 are then emptied as soon as
possible by draining gravitationally into Pond 4. A total of about 24 million gallons (MG) of
peak flow storage is provided.
By March 2011, the Discharger had installed a solar photo voltaic system within Pond 3, which
provides a majority of the power needed to operate the Facility. Installation of the system
does not alter the available capacity of Pond 3 for detention of wet weather flows or the pond’s
liner system.
The WWTP uses an oxidation ditch activated sludge process for secondary level treatment.
The design capacity of the existing secondary treatment plant is 1.67 MGD. One oxidation
P
ditch is equipped with two 50 horsepower (hp) brush aerators, one 20 hp, floating brush and
one 30 hp floating brush aerator. The floating brushes serve as backup aerators to the 50 hp R
units. Two screw-type return sludge pumps are located on the east side of the ditch. The
WWTP has three secondary clarifiers (two 64-foot diameter units and a 55-foot diameter unit) E
for settling of solids. The oxidation ditch is operated to nitrify and partially denitrify by
sequencing its aerators on and off. Construction of a second oxidation ditch is scheduled to L
begin in 2016 and capacity will be increased to approximately 6 MGD.
I
Secondary effluent and treated pond effluent during extreme rain events are directed to a M
tertiary pump station which lift the water to a flocculation basin for chemical conditioning with
polymer or coagulants. The water is then filtered in up to seven deep bed monomedia sand I
filters to remove turbidity. The filtered water is directed to two ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection N
channels for removal of bacteria and virus prior to discharge. Up to 6 MGD of secondary
effluent can be directed through the filters and UV disinfection. A
Waste sludge from the existing oxidation ditch and secondary clarifiers is sent to the return
R
sludge pump station (RSPS). Sludge is either recycled within the system as return activated
sludge (RAS) or wasted from the system as waste activated sludge (WAS). RAS is pumped
Y
from the RSPS back to the oxidation ditch. WAS is pumped to a belt filter press for
dewatering. The dewatered sludge is disposed of at a landfill.
D
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
R
1. The Facility is located in Section 17, T12N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
A
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Auburn
Ravine, a water of the United States and a tributary to East Side Canal, Natomas Cross F
Canal, and the Sacramento River at a point latitude 38° 53’ 13” N and l

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The City of Auburn is proposing a number of secondary process upgrades to improve WWTP
performance, add process redundancy, and comply with nutrient limitations. The project would
construct a new oxidation ditch and associated facilities. The new oxidation ditch would be
located within a portion of existing pond (Pond 4) south of and adjacent to the WWTP. The
new oxidation ditch would include a separate anoxic zone for denitrification and aerated zone
for full nitrification. The upgrades would also allow either the existing or new oxidation ditch to
be removed from service for inspection and repairs. The remainder of Pond 4 will continue to
be used as described above in Section II of this Fact Sheet.
Several other supporting facilities will be required as part of the upgrade, including, new
mechanical fine screens, a liquid magnesium hydroxide system will replace the existing lime
feed system for alkalinity control, and the existing return sludge pump will be replaced with a
P
submersible pump station that would serve both the existing or new ditch. The project has an
estimated construction time of two years and is planned to start in August 2016. R
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS E
The r