[Page 13]
23. The WWTF was originally constructed in 1978 and consisted of a headworks, an
aeration pond, polishing ponds, evaporation/percolation ponds relying on natural
sand filtration. The WWTF was expanded in 1999 to increase its average dry
weather flow capacity from 0.5 mgd to 1.5 mgd and its peak flow capacity to
3 mgd. The expansion included the addition of two partially mixed aerated
lagoons, a larger polishing pond, and additional filter percolation ponds.
24. The existing WWTF features a headworks with an auger screen, two
partially mixed aerated ponds, a partially-mixed polishing pond, 1.8 acres of
unlined sludge drying beds, and eleven percolation ponds. Much of the sludge
drying bed area was converted to a solar farm between 2018 and 2021.
25. Influent wastewater enters the headworks through a 12-inch pipeline. The
headworks were upgraded in 2008 to include a magnetic flowmeter and an auger
screen, with a design capacity of 4.5 mgd. In 2014, an additional auger screen
was installed in the bypass channel to improve screening performance, while the
2008 auger screen remains in service as a backup. Screenings are collected in a
dumpster that is emptied weekly. Up to one-third of the screened influent may be
diverted to the decommissioned western treatment plant via a splitter box. The
decommissioned plant consists of the partial-mix ponds and polishing pond. An
influent sampler is also installed at the headworks.
26. Screened wastewater flows by gravity through a 21-inch pipeline to a valve box
located in the levee separating the two partially-mixed aeration ponds. The valve
box controls two 15-inch influent pipelines and includes a bypass valve that
allows screened wastewater to be diverted directly to the polishing pond via a
21-inch pipeline. An 18-inch pipeline connects the two basins and is regulated by
a valve located east centerline of the levee. Each partial-mixed pond is about
11.5 feet deep and provides a treatment volume of 2 million gallons (MG).
27. Effluent from the aerated ponds is then directed to the polishing pond, which is
approximately 10.5 feet deep and provides a treatment volume of 5.4 MG.
Curtain baffles divide the polishing pond into four zones. Currently, four 5-HP
aerators are installed in two zones to provide additional oxygen for polishing,
while the remaining zones allow settling of suspended solids. Uncontrolled algae
growth, even during winter, has contributed to elevated effluent BOD and TSS
levels. The increased solids loading can also reduce the performance of the filter
percolation beds.
28. Secondary effluent from the polishing pond overflows into a surface weir through
a 21-inch pipe and enters a hydraulic control structure on the eastern levee. Two
gates control the flow of effluent to eleven percolation ponds that encompass a
surface area of 15 acres. According to the May 2024 RWD, the City only utilizes
one percolation pond for effluent disposal.
[Page 14]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2026-0017 6
City of Firebaugh
Firebaugh Wastewater Treatment Facility
Fresno County
29. The May 2024 RWD states that approximately 151 acres of the City’s Use Areas
were developed for the land disposal of Tomatek’s process wastewater. A nearby
9.7-acre storm drainage pond, used for a nearby home subdivision near the
WWTF, is utilized as an additional Use Area during the summer when not
inundated with stormwater runoff. The existing Use Areas are summarized in
Table 1 below.
Table 1 – Existing Use Areas
Area Acres
Use Area 1 35.5
Use Area 2 11
Use Area 3 15.8
Use Area 4 50
Use Area 5 26
Use Area 6 12.2
Storm Pond 9.7
30. Recent monitoring data from January 2023 to October 2025 indicates that the
average effluent flows at the WWTF range from 0.49 mgd to 0.74 mgd as shown
in Table 2 below. As of January 2026, the Central Valley Water Board has not
yet received data for November and December 2025.
Table 2 – Effluent Flows (in mgd)
Month 2023 2024 2025
January 0.56 0.49 0.50
February 0.53 0.50 0.52
March 0.65

[Page 16]
36. Stormwater at the Facility is directed to a stormwater pond with a capacity of 48.5
acre-feet. Additionally, berms are present around the perimeter of each Use Area
to prevent overflow of water onto adjacent properties, and levees are also
present at the Facility boundaries to further prevent stormwater from running off
or onto the Facility. The RWD also states that areas will be graded flat to prevent
ponding. Also, the application of reclaimed water to Use Areas will cease 24
hours before a storm and will not resume until at least 24 hours after the storm
has ended. The Facility has a stormwater pond with a capacity of 48.5 acre-feet.
Proposed Changes to Facility
[Page 17]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2026-0017 9
City of Firebaugh
Firebaugh Wastewater Treatment Facility
Fresno County
37. The City has

[Page 17]
38. The existing influent screen will be retained as part of the proposed treatment
process, and a second influent screen will be added to provide redundancy. The
existing splitter box downstream of the screens will be modified to convey the full
influent flow to the proposed extended aeration activated sludge basin via an 18-
inch effluent pipeline. The splitter box will also be recoated.
39. The proposed extended aeration activated sludge basin will be constructed within
the former polishing pond located on the eastern portion of the site. This new
aeration basin will be excavated to increase the depth from 8 feet to 14 feet, and
the excavated material will be used to construct an embankment along the west
side of the basin. The existing concrete liner will be removed and re-lined with
concrete at a depth of six inches. The extended aeration activated sludge basin
will be equipped with an aeration system consisting of aeration chains with
suspended fine-bubble diffusers and will be designed to provide biological
nutrient removal. Dimensions for the extended aeration activated sludge basin
are provided in Table 6 below.
Table 6 – Extended Aeration Activated Sludge Basin Dimensions
Parameter Value Unit
Floor Length 189 Feet
Floor Width 93 Feet
Side Slope 1:2 Dimensionless
Freeboard 2 Feet
[Page 18]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2026-0017 10
City of Firebaugh
Firebaugh Wastewater Treatment Facility
Fresno County
Parameter Value Unit
Side Water Depth 14 Feet
Grade to Floor Depth 16 Feet
Capacity 2.6 Million Gallons
40. The aeration basin will be equipped with a fine-bubble aeration system consisting
of diffusers suspended from aeration headers. Twelve 6-inch floating headers will
be installed across the width of the basin, with each header supporting nine
diffuser arrays suspended approximately one foot above the basin floor. The
aeration chain system will be designed to be self-propelled and free to move
back and forth, providing enhanced mixing and oxygen transfer.
41. A new hydraulic control structure and influent inlet will be constructed along the
eastern side of the aerated basin. At this structure, raw wastewater will mix with
return activated sludge (RAS) before entering the basin. Effluent will exit the
basin through three 10-inch pipes installed along the western slope and will
discharge into a splitter box that divides the flow among the two secondary
clarifiers.
42. Two rectangular secondary clarifiers will be constructed west of the extended
aeration activated sludge basin. Effluent from the clarifier distribution box will
enter each clarifier through an 18-inch influent pipe that discharges into a
12-foot-diameter center well designed to dissipate the energy of the incoming
flow. Scum will be removed by a surface skimmer that conveys the scum to a
scum box, from which it will be periodically pumped to the RAS/WAS pumping
station. Dimensions for the proposed clarifiers are presented in Table 7 below.
Table 7 – Secondary Clarifiers Dimensions
Parameter Value Unit
Diameter 50 Feet
Side Water Depth 15 Feet
Feed Pipe Diameter 18 Inches
Effluent Pipe Diameter 18 Inches
Sludge Withdrawal Pipe 10 Inches
[Page 19]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2026-0017 11
City of Firebaugh
Firebaugh Wastewater Treatment Facility
Fresno County
Parameter Value Unit
Bottom Slope 1:12 Dimensionless
43. The clarifier is planned with an 18-inch reinforced concrete floor and walls,
enhanced with a crystalline waterproofing admixture, and an epoxy liner. The
base of the proposed clarifiers are proposed to be constructed below seasonal
high groundwater levels and will include one-way valves to allow groundwater to
enter the clarifier if hydrostatic uplift becomes a concern. The City maintains that
hydrostatic pressure within the clarifier will be consistently greater than any
hydrostatic uplift forces encountered from shallow groundwater.
44. Effluent from the clarifiers will be stored during months when irrigation demand is
low or when the Use Areas are being utilized by Tomatek. When the lined
effluent storage ponds are full, effluent will be discharged into percolation ponds
three, four, five, six, eleven, and into the stormwater pond during the summer.
Table 8 below provides the surface area and storage capacity of the proposed
lined storage and percolation ponds.
Table 8 – Storage and Percolation Pond Dimensions
Pond Surface Area (acres) Capacity (acre-feet)
Effluent Storage Pond 1 4.6 26
Effluent Storage Pond 2 5.2 30
Percolation Pond 3 1.5 7
Percolation Pond 4 1.5 7
Percolation Pond 5 1.5 7
Percolation Pond 6 1.5 7
Percolation Pond 11 0.75 3.5
Stormwater Pond 9.7 48.5
45. Settled secondary sludge will be collected using a chain-and-flight collector. A
RAS/WAS pumping station will receive effluent from each clarifier and will be
equipped with four sludge pumps, two serving each clarifier. The RAS pumps will
be capable of handling between 75 and 150 percent of the design flow,
discharging into a 14-inch manifold. The RAS/WAS flow will be returned to the
influent end of the aeration basin, while a wasting valve will divert waste
activated sludge (WAS) to the sludge drying beds. The RAS/WAS pumps will
also be configured to transfer scum from the scum box.
[Page 20]
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2026-0017 12
City of Firebaugh
Firebaugh Wastewater Treatment Facility
Fresno County
46. Currently, the WWTF routinely exceeds BOD and TSS as a monthly average.
According to the 2021 Notice of Violation, the Facility exceeded the current BOD
and TSS limits a total of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgrades to the WWTF to modify the current treatment
process to an extended aeration activated sludge system with biological nutrient
removal. The upgraded system is designed to treat up to 1.5 mgd, with a peak
flow of 3 mgd. Upgrades include conversion of the polishing pond to an extended
aeration activated sludge basin and the addition of two clarifiers, a new sludge
pumping station, artificial media drying beds, and a sludge drying basin. The
sludge drying bed will be installed with a six-inch concrete bottom and eight-inch
concrete walls and equipped with drains that return leachate to the extended
aeration activated sludge basin. Additionally, several existing percolation ponds
will be consolidated, excavated, and lined to create storage ponds for treated
effluent intended for irrigation use. The Facility will produce undisinfected
secondary effluent, which will be disposed of through a combination of
agricultural reuse and percolation. Detailed discussion of these upgrades is
provided in the following findings. A site map that identifies proposed project
upgrades is provided as Attachment B.
38. The existing influent screen will be re