[Page 1]
8. The first step of the treatment process is pre-chlorination, which is performed by adding
calcium hypochlorite to oxidize the iron, manganese and hydrogen sulfide for settling.
The water is then filtered by four pyrolusite (manganese dioxide) filters. Before the
potable water is conveyed to the two distribution storage tanks (150,000 and
180,000 gallon capacity), calcium hypochlorite is injected as needed for disinfection.
The treated water contains low levels of chlorine residual from 0.75 to 1.0 mg/L.
Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part of the Order by reference,
presents a simplified process schematic.
9. The treatment system is equipped to add low doses of potassium permanganate before
filtration to assist with iron and manganese precipitation and high doses when needed to
regenerate the pyrolusite. However, it has not yet been necessary to utilize the
potassium permanganate.
10. The filters are typically backwashed with the treated water every six hours of run time.
The backwash takes approximately six to eight minutes per filter at 190 to 220 gallons per
minute (“gpm”). The backwash water combined with the treated water flowing through the
instrument analyzers (0.5 to 1.5 gpm) is directed to the two clay-lined ponds (Ponds 1
and 2) operated in series for settling and evaporation. The effluent from the Pond 2 flows
into the unnamed creek and then into Camanche Reservoir. This discharge is regulated
under the General Order.
11. During April through October from 2009 through 2011, the WTP produced approximate
monthly averages of 75,000 gallons per day (“gpd”) of treated water and 8,600 gpd of
filter backwash water. The filter backwash water average includes the treated water
flowing through the instru

[Page 2]
13. During April through October, the filter backwash water is directly conveyed to the
irrigation system at the two LAAs instead of the storage ponds. The irrigation system
consists of four 2,500-gallon polyethylene tanks, two 85-gallon pressure tanks, and spray
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023 4
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION
AMADOR COUNTY
and drip control systems. All six tanks are in series, allowing solids settling. The filter
backwash water is applied to approximately one acre of Blue Oaks Playground via a
spray system and approximately three acres of adjacent campground area via a drip
system. To prevent irrigation runoff from the playground entering the reservoir, an
earthen berm was installed along a portion of the playground, as shown on Attachment B.
The drip system will not generate tailwater, so tha

===PLANNED CHANGES===

