[Page 1]
6. The RWD presents information on site conditions, wastewater quantity and quality, source
water quantity and quality, the wastewater collection system, the treatment process, and
the management and disposal of effluent.
7. The treatment facility will be in the northeast corner of the proposed Resort as shown in
Attachment B. The proposed wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) will consist of a
wastewater collection system comprised of a series of septic tanks and associated piping
and a treatment facility that will provide tertiary treatment of the wastewater. The
treatment process will include flow equalization, trickling filter secondary treatment with
interstage clarification, denitrification, microfiltration, and ultraviolet light disinfection. A
process flow diagram is presented in Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made a
part of this Order by reference.
8. The WWTF has a design monthly average daily flow of about 35,000 gallons per day and
a maximum daily flow of about 73,000 gallons per day (gpd). The Discharger will operate
the WWTF and will employ a Grade 3 Certified Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator.
9. The septic tank collection system separates solids and provides pretreatment of the
wastewater prior to discharge to the treatment facility. Effluent will be discharged from the
tanks either by gravity or by induced pressure depending upon the location of the tanks
with respect to the treatment facility.
10. The septic tanks will require periodic pumping to remove septage. Septage will be
collected by a conventional septic vacuum truck and will be transported to a regional
septage disposal facility.
11. The proposed microfiltration should produce effluent with a turbidity of less than 0.2
Nephelometric turbidity units consistent with the California Code of Regulations (CCR)
Title 22, Section 60301.320. Combining microfiltration with ultraviolet disinfection reduces
the amount of chemicals needed for tertiary treatment. A backup hypochlorite system will
be in place in case of failure of the microfiltration/UV disinfection system. The effluent
quality will comply with DHS Title 22 CCR standards for ”disinfected tertiary recycled
water.”
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140 -3-
PACIFIC US REAL ESTATE GROUP
SILVERTIP RESORT VILLAGE, WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
12. The WWTF will be designed for continuous operation with backup systems for component
malfunction and primary p

[Page 2]
15. The Discharger proposes to discharge tertiary treated wastewater to a leachfield during
the winter months (approximately November through April) and recycle water for
landscape irrigation during the summer months (typically from May through October).
Recycled water may be used for toilet flushing year round. Additionally, recycled water
will be used to fill a 510,000 to 750,000 gallon effluent storage tank. The tank allows
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140 -4-
PACIFIC US REAL ESTATE GROUP
SILVERTIP RESORT VILLAGE, WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
wastewater to be applied at controlled rates to the leachfield and spray fields and allows
use of wastewater for fire suppression activities.
16. An average of 36 acre-feet per year of effluent will be generated by the proposed Resort.
The Resort will use approximately 19 acre feet for landscape irrigation with the other 17
acre feet to be discharged to the proposed leachfield.
17. The proposed leachfield will be at the southwestern corner of the property on a
north/northeast-facing slope. The preliminary leachfield design includes about 2,700 feet
of trenches that will accept up to 23,500 gpd. The final design has yet to be submitted
and will be required as discussed in Provisions H.12 and H.13 of this Order.
18. Tertiary treated wastewater will be used to irrigate approximately 5 acres of landscaped
areas as well as forested open space areas. The areas to be irrigated include 1.97 acres
of meadow area, 0.5

[Page 3]
19. For the purposes of this Order, the term “wastewater treatment facility” or “WWTF” shall
mean the wastewater collection system and septic tanks, the wastewater treatment
system and sludge handling facilities, the recycled water distribution system, any storage
facilities, the leachfield, and the landscape irrigation areas.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The discharge area lies within the San Joaquin Basin, specifically the South Fork of the
Merced River Hydrologic Area (No. 537.40) of the San Joaquin Valley, as depicted on
interagency hydrologic maps prepared by the California Department of Water Resources
(DWR) in Spring 1986. Areal topography indicates that the area consists of a west to east
forested secondary canyon with slopes from 15 to 35 percent. The slopes flatten out to a
meadow area (Big Meadow), which slopes gently to the east/northeast. The proposed
leachfield area is on a north/northeast-facing slope with a slope of approximately 30
percent (about 1,500 feet per mile) that drains to Big Creek along a portion of the eastern
property boundary.
21. The community of Fish Camp and the proposed Resort are surrounded by the Sierra
National Forest with elevations in the town area ranging from about 4,950 feet to 5,300
feet. The Fish Camp area is characterized

===PLANNED CHANGES===

