[Page 75]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities of Cutler, Orosi, East
Orosi, Yettem, Seville, and Sultana and serves a population of approximately 15,700.
The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 2.0 million gallons per day (mgd).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The WWTF includes: raw wastewater screening units; an influent pump station;
trickling filter treatment train consisting of two primary clarifiers, two trickling filters, and
a recirculation pump station; an oxidation ditch treatment train consisting of an
oxidation ditch, secondary clarifier, and return and waste activated sludge pump
stations; an ultraviolet light disinfection system (the WWTF does not utilize chlorine for
disinfection); an effluent pump system; unlined wastewater ponds; cropland for
application of treated wastewater; and an outlet structure for discharge of treated
effluent to either ponds, cropland, or Sand Creek, a water of the United States, and a
tributary to the Tule River within Tulare-Buena Vista Lakes Watershed. The design
flow rate for treatment capacity for the WWTF is 2.0 mgd.
Raw wastewater is initially split between the trickling filter treatment train and the
oxidation ditch treatment train. The trickling filter treatment train typically handles a
fixed flow of 0.5 mgd. However, effluent from the trickling filter treatment train is
directed to the head of the oxidation ditch treatment train. Therefore, the oxidation
ditch treatment train handles the entire flow of the WWTF. Treated wastewater is
discharged to any of the following: two unlined wastewater ponds, cropland, or Sand
Creek. The two unlined wastewater ponds allow for storage, percolation, and
evaporation of the treated effluent and each have a capacity of 10.75 million gallons.
Treated effluent in the two unlined wastewater ponds can also be discharged to either
cropland or Sand Creek.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 76]
CUTLER-OROSI JOINT POWERS WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER R5-2013-0047
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081485
There are two wastewater discharge locations, identified as Discharge 001 (discharge
to cropland) and Discharge 002 (discharge to Sand Creek between 1 November and
30 April). Discharge 001 consists of 118.8 acres of double-cropped sudan grass and
winter wheat. The cropland is divided into five sections identified as A, B, C, D, and E.
The land application area is owned by the Discharger and the Discharger is
responsible for wastewater application; however, planting and harvesting of the crops
is contracted to a local farmer. The Discharger owns 20 additional acres of cropland
that could receive WWTF effluent if conveyance piping were to be installed.
In addition to the two unlined wastewater ponds, there are 12 unlined sludge drying
beds, four lined sludge drying beds (Deskins; constructed in 2010), and two unlined
dried sludge storage beds at the site. The 12 unlined sludge drying beds and two
unlined dry sludge storage beds are no longer used. The four lined sludge drying
beds are currently used to dry sludge and skimmings from the secondary clarifier.
Dried sludge is ultimately hauled off-site to a landfill or composting facility.
In the event that the elevation of groundwater is within five feet of ground surface
where wastewater is applied or within five feet of the bottom of the wastewater ponds,
or discharge is to Sand Creek, the treated effluent is disinfected with ultraviolet light.
The direction of groundwater flow is primarily to the southwest. Attachment B
provides a map of the area around the WWTF. Attachment C provides a flow
schematic of the WWTF.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 19, T16S, R24E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a par

===PLANNED CHANGES===

