[Page 61]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Big Creek and serves a
population of approximately 180. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is
0.06 million gallons per day (mgd).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
In 2007, the Discharger purchased new headworks equipment, a membrane bioreactor
wastewater treatment system, sludge bagging system, a new ultraviolet (UV) light
disinfection system, and magnetic flow meters to replace the older WWTP. The original
plant was constructed in 1961. Inflow and infiltration were overloading the WWTP and a
replacement of the collection system occurred in 1996 and 2001. The new wastewater
treatment system commenced operation in December 2007.
The treatment system at the Facility consists of primary, secondary, and tertiary units.
Primary treatment includes a rotating brush screen which is designed to remove paper
and other solid wastes from the influent. Then the wastewater flows into the grit
chamber. The wastewater flows through the flow meter and into the secondary
treatment units – an anoxic zone and an aerobic zone. The Discharger adds alum and
caustic soda to the secondary treatment units to remove phosphorus, enhance
flocculation, and control pH. As water leaves the aerobic zone it enters the membrane
filters, which provide ultrafiltration. After tertiary treatment, a small fraction of
wastewater is directed to the permeate back flush tank while the remainder of the
wastewater is disinfected using UV light. A concrete-lined overflow pond is adjacent to
the Facility for storage of flow in the event of a treatment system failure or major
maintenance. Sludge is processed using a sludge bagging and dewatering system.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 28, T8S, R25E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated domestic wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Big Creek
at a point latitude 37° 12’ 08” N and longitude 119° 14’ 38” W. Big Creek is a water
of the United States and a tributary to San Joaquin River.
Attachment F

===PLANNED CHANGES===

