[Page 49]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of the City of Placerville and a
portion of El Dorado County and serves a population of approximately 10,000. The design
average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 2.3 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The wastewater treatment plant provides primary, secondary and tertiary treatment, including
effluent cooling. The treatment train includes a headworks, primary clarifiers, biological
nutrient removal, secondary clarifiers, flow equalization, effluent cooling, upflow clarifiers
followed by gravity filtration, ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection, and effluent aeration. The
Facility possesses an emergency chlorine disinfection system and chlorine disinfectant and
dechlorinating agent are maintained onsite for use in the event of a failure of the UV
disinfection system. The solids processing facilities include anaerobic digesters for all sludge.
Digested sludge is dewatered with a belt filter press and disposed off-site at a permitted land
disposal facility or by application to agricultural land.
During the term of Order R5-2008-0053, the Facility underwent treatment system upgrades
which included the installation of the following units: an effluent cooling system, a biological
nutrient removal system (a Modified Ludzak-Ettinger process capable of nitrification and
denitrification), secondary clarifiers, UV disinfection, and tertiary filters. The chlorine
disinfection system was replaced with a UV disinfection system; however, the Facility retains
the capacity to use chlorine disinfection in emergency situations. The Discharger submitted a
letter on 2 March 2009 reporting that construction on the improvements had reached
substantial completion. The start-up period for the upgraded treatment system concluded at
the end of December 2009.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 11, T10N, R10E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Hangtown Creek, a
water of the United States, and a tributary of the South Fork of the American River via
Weber Creek at

===PLANNED CHANGES===

