[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Facility is situated on 36 acres at the northwest corner of Central and Maple Avenues.
The Discharger provides sewerage service to domestic and industrial users for the
unincorporated community of Malaga and serves a population of approximately
1,000 people. The secondary treatment design daily average flow capacity is 1.2 mgd and
some of this can be further subjected to tertiary treatment, up to the daily average flow
capacity of 0.45 mgd. The disposal ponds have disposal capacity of about 0.85 mgd, but
this becomes less without pond maintenance as percolation rates decrease.
A. Site Conditions.
1. Average annual precipitation and pan evaporation in the area are approximately
10 and 65 inches, respectively.
2. Surface soils in the vicinity are moderately permeable and classified as Hesperia
fine sandy loam, consisting of well-drained, mainly sandy loam underlain by a silty
layer according to the Soil Conservation Service 1962 Soil Survey of the Eastern
Fresno Area. The soil has a hardpan layer at five to seven feet that is underlain by
alluvial fan deposits of alternating sand and clay layers.
3. First encountered groundwater is 55 to 65 feet below ground surface.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 71]
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2008-0033
MALAGA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084239
B. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Industrial Pretreatment Program. Inflows originate from about 1,000 domestic
users, which account for about 35 percent of the flows, and 140 permitted industrial
users, which is the remaining 65 percent. The largest industrial users are food
processors, glass manufactures, and truck and car washes, as well as process
water from the Rio Bravo Power Plant.
Provision H.10 of WDRs Order No. 99-100 required the District to submit a series of
reports to develop an adequate industrial pretreatment program (IPP) by 1 May 2000
for Regional Water Board approval. When the District did not complete this
Provision, the District was issued Cease and Desist Order No. 5-01-001, which
required, in part, the District to develop an approved IPP by 1 October 2001.
On 6 October 2004, the Discharger submitted its IPP and draft ordinance amending
its Municipal Code. The Regional Water Board provided comments dated 7
February 2005, and State Water Board Office of Chief Counsel deemed the
ordinance adequate on 29 December 2005. This Order approves the City’s
Industrial Pretreatment Program.
2. Treatment Works. The treatment train consists of three screw pumps (one in
service at a time), screening, an aerated grit chamber, flocculation tank, one primary
clarifier which consists of a clarifier/DAF unit (unit out of service), three activated
sludge aeration basins, two aerobic sludge digesters, and three secondary clarifiers
(two are out of service). The tertiary WWTF consists of the secondary WWTF
followed by filtration (“fuzzy” filter) and disinfection by chlorination/dechlorination. In
the information submitted to supplement the RWD, the District re-rates the design
capacity of the tertiary system to 0.45 mgd and therefore requests the permitted
discharge flow equal this at Discharge Point 001.
The existing clarifier/DAF structure was constructed 35 years ago. Surfacing
effluent adjacent to the DAF structure has been traced back to the DAF structure.
The District performed an investigation of all adjacent structures and determined that
the concrete structure of the DAF has cracks that allow untreated wastewater to
escape the structure. The District recently received funding to re-epoxy the DAF
structure to repair the leaks and repairs are currently underway.
The District intends to obtain additional funding to implement ultraviolet disinfection
(UV) for its method of disinfection as it committed to as part of an enforcement
settlement. The District will complete this project by 1 October 2008 and a time
schedule is incorporated into this Order to complete this project.
3. Sludge and Biosolids Handling. Sludge and other solids from the treatment
process are discharged to two aerobic digesters and a sludge thickening tank, and
then discharged to unlined sludge drying beds for dewatering. Dewatered sludge or
biosolids, was historically land applied to areas surrounding the WWTF, including
areas directly adjacent to the sludge drying beds. The District now stockpiles the
solids for up to two years at which point it contracts with a third party for hauling off-
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 72]
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2008-0033
MALAGA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084239
site for disposal, reuse or further treatment prior to reuse. As described in this Fact
Sheet, historical sludge handling pra

[Page 75]
5. Automate chemical feed 1 November 2006 (completed)
6. Construction of UV Disinfection 1 October 2008
7. Continuous monitoring of EC, turbidity, pH, and chlorine residual 1 December 2006
2. Secondary Treated Wastewater. Discharger SMRs from January 2000 through
July 2006 indicate effluent at Discharge 002 violated the EC limit (shown in Table
F-4 above), but at less frequency than at Discharge 001. This is a result, in part, of
the chemical additions necessary for the chlorination and dechlorination processes
prior to discharge to the Canal. In addition, the Discharger chronically does not
meet the minimum 2.0 feet freeboard requirements in the disposal ponds. This is a
result of the decrease in percolation rates from deferred pond maintenance. The
Discharger is, in part, increasing its discharge volume at Discharge 001 to allow a
disposal pond to be taken out of service for maintenance to restore percolation
rates.
3. Cease and Desist Order. The Regional Water Board adopted Cease and Desist
Order No. 5-01-001 for violations of WDRs Order No. 99-100, including violations of
the minimum freeboard requirement; exceedances of the EC, turbidity, and chlorine
residual limitations; and failing to develop a pretreatment program. The Discharger

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is scheduled to update its disinfection process to ultraviolet disinfection
and will increase its discharge flow to the Central Canal.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authority
See Limitations and Discharge Requirements - Findings, Section II.C.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
See Limitations and Discharge R