[Page 96]
1. Existing Facility. The Facility is staffed and operated 24 hours per day and the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 97]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2021-0019-01
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
liquid treatment process consists of influent pumps, a septage receiving station,
mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers that wash and
dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, air biological treatment by
activated sludge, secondary sedimentation, nitrifying sidestream treatment for
ammonia removal, disinfection with sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination
with sodium bisulfite. The Facility has partially-constructed and partially-
operating Primary Effluent Pump Station (PEPS) and Biological Nutrient
Removal facilities. Effluent can be diverted to lined emergency storage basins
(ESB’s), as needed, to meet effluent dilution, thermal, and disinfection
requirements or divert excess flows. Odors are controlled through stripping
towers and carbon treatment.
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility
will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this Order,
consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and
operation are as follows and differs seasonally.
The desig

[Page 97]
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility
will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this Order,
consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and
operation are as follows and differs seasonally.
The design capacity of the future Facility will remain 181 MGD. Facility
modification to date include replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological
treatment facilities with biological nutrient removal (BNR) air activated
treatment facilities capable of removing ammonia and nitrate nitrogen. Future
addition include tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with granular media
filters, and the increase in the storage capacity. The Facility will continue to be
staffed and operated 24 hours per day and will consist of influent pumps,
septage receiving station, anaerobically digested material reception and
storage facility, mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers
that wash and dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, primary
effluent pumping station and peak-shaving storage facilities, BNR air activated
sludge treatment, nitrifying sequencing batch reactor for treating high ammonia
concentration waste streams from solids storage basins and biosolids
reclamation facility, secondary sedimentation, secondary effluent screen, filter
influent pumping station, granular media filtration, disinfection with chlorine
liquid in a covered disinfection contact basin, and dechlorination with sodium
bisulfite. Compliant effluent can be diverted to the lined ESB’s, as needed, to
meet effluent dilution and thermal limits before discharge to the Sacramento
River. Non-compliant effluent, primary influent or effluent, and raw wastewater
can be diverted to the lined ESB’s for any reason, including process upsets, or
diversions for excess flows, and returned to the Facility influent for additional
treatment.

[Page 97]
River. Non-compliant effluent, primary influent or effluent, and raw wastewater
can be diverted to the lined ESB’s for any reason, including process upsets, or
diversions for excess flows, and returned to the Facility influent for additional
treatment. Odors are to be controlled through biological fixed media scrubbers,
scrubbing tower, chemical oxidizing towers, and carbon treatment towers.
The BNR activated sludge treatment facilities is designed to process up to 330
MGD. Flows in excess of 330 MGD will be stored in peak-shaving storage
facilities (ESB’s) and returned for processing through the BNR facilities when
capacity is available. All wastewater will receive advanced secondary treatment
through the BNR facilities. The tertiary filters will be designed to process flows
up to 217 MGD, measured as a daily average. This Order requires seasonal
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 98]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2021-0019-01
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
disinfection requirements and the Facility will be operated differently during
each season, as follows:
a. 1 May – 31 October. The Facility will be operated to meet Title 22 or
equivalent disinfection criteria, as described in Special Provision VI.C.6.a.
b. 1 November – 30 April (commencing 1 November 2023):
In the descriptions below, “filtered” means tertiary filtration of BNR effluent
under filter operations consistent with the design hydraulic loading rate
necessary to comply with the Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection criteria.
i. When the BNR effluent flow is 217 MGD, or less, measured as a
daily average, the entire BNR effluent flow will be filtered.
ii. When the BNR effluent flow exceeds 217 MGD, up to 217 MGD will
be filtered and the remaining wastewater will not be filtered. A portion
of the filtered effluent may be reclaimed. The remaining filtered and
non-filtered wastewater will be disinfected and combined with
reclaimed water in excess of demands, prior to the dechlorination
facilities.
One component of the Future Facility is the Tertiary Treatment Facilities
(TTF) project, which will use tertiary filtration and disinfection to treat
secondary effluent from the Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) facility.
The BNR portion of the project is complete. The TTF project is the last
major component in the EchoWater Project to be completed and is
scheduled for completion in the fall of 2022, followed by testing and
optimization processes. Once the TTF project is fully operational, it will
replace the existing Water Reclamation Facility for producing disinfected
tertiary recycled water, and

[Page 98]
3. Biosolids Treatment. Solids are thickened by dissolved air flotation and
gravity belt thickeners. Primary and secondary sludge is mixed. Fats, oils, and
grease from the FOG receiving station may be mixed to the waste and the
mixed waste is sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately 15 days or more,
stored at the sludge stabilization basins for 3 to 5 years, then harvested and
injected into dedicated lined land disposal sites. Some biosolids are recycled
with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger can dispose
of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option. Separate
WDR’s (Order R5-2015-0133), in conformance with California Code of
Regulations (CCR), Title 27, division 2, subdivision 1, regulate the biosolids
and solids storage and disposal facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment
units, unclassified solids storage basins, and the Class III grit and screening
landfill closure. When the treatment plant upgrades are complete, biosolids
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 99]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2021-0019-01
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
treatment and disposal will remain unchanged.
4. Groundwater Corrective Action Plan (CAP). The Discharger initiated a CAP
in December 1995 and is currently

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is constructing
upgrades to the Facility, including replacement of the existing air biological treatment
facilities with BNR air activated treatment facilities capable of removing ammonia
and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with
granular media filters, and an increase in lined ESB facilities. Construction of the
side stream ammonia treatment is complete.
In all, Facility modifications will result in the construction, commissioning, and
operation of seven or more new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units: flow
equalization, disinfection chemical storage, biological nutrient removal (phase I and
phase II), nitrifying side-stream treatment, and tertiary treatment facilities. Biological
nutrient removal and nitrifying side-stream treatment are biological treatment
processes. The start-up and commissioning period (i.e., period of time necessary for
adjusting and testing of new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units) for
projects of this size, while maintaining consistent and ongoing treatment operations,
is a complex undertaking. It involves the gradual transitioning of wastewater
treatment from curren