[Page 70]
1. Discharge Point No. 001. The treatment system at the Facility consists of
headworks (screening, grit removal, comminutors), extended aeration in an oxidation
ditch, secondary clarifier, multimedia filters, and chlorine contact basin. Coagulation
and flocculation facilities are available but are not currently in use. Currently, raw
sewage flows through a mechanical bar screen for removal of larger objects.
Following screening, the wastewater flows via gravity through a grit chamber for
removal of smaller grit particles, and through a Parshall flume for flow measurement.
After effluent leaves the preliminary treatment stage, it is pumped to the oxidation
ditch. The oxidation ditch activated sludge process reduces the biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD). Activated sludge from this process is combined with raw, screened
wastewater in the oxidation ditch, where the mixed liquor flow is oxidized. Mixed
liquor from this process is then directed to the secondary clarifier for settling of
solids. Solids removed are returned to the aeration process, and the clarified
effluent is pumped through a filtration process to remove most of the remaining
solids that do not settle in the secondary clarifier. Following filtration, effluent is
disinfected with chlorine, and then dechlorinated, prior to discharge to Deuel Drain
from Discharge Point No. 001.
The Discharger has an unlined aerated lagoon with a surface area of 2.24 acres,
which is used to accept backwash water from the filters prior to recycling flow
through the treatment process, and the lagoon additionally provides treatment
redundancy for the oxidation ditch and secondary clarifier, as well as flow
equalization during periods of high plant inflow. The site also has two unlined
facultative ponds, which are currently used for retaining storm water on site and in
the event of a process upset condition. Sludge is dewatered in sand drying beds
and transported for offsite disposal.
2. Discharge Point Nos. 003 and 004. Order No. 94-212 regulated discharges from
Discharge Point Nos. 003 and 004 as storm water. However, monitoring data over
the term of that Order indicated that year-round non-storm water wastewaters were
also present in these discharges. Monitoring data also indicated that these
discharges were polluted with VOCs, which p

[Page 72]
This will allow time for the Waste Water Treatment plant staff to be notified on
any SSO that may have occurred during the night. Pumps will also be turned
off at the end of the day (weather permitting).
- In the event of a SSO, the contents of the outfall’s storm sump will be pumped
to the holding ponds. The contents in the holding ponds will then be
processed through the wastewater treatment plant. If it is not possible to
pump the sump contents to the holding ponds, it will be pumped to the
adjacent sanitary sewer headworks. All other SSO procedures will be in
effect at this time.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 20, T2S, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point No. 001 to Deuel
Drain, a water of the United States, and a tributary to the San Joaquin River within
the Sacramento – San Joa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is currently constructing a new wastewater treatment plant to comply
with the effluent limitations and time schedules established in Order No. R5-2003-0065,
CDO No. R5-2003-0066 (rescinded), and CDO No. R5-2005-0152, which was
scheduled to be completed by March 2009. The new wastewater treatment plant will be
located within the perimeter of the Facility and will include a Membrane Bioreactor
(MBR) treatment system. The proposed facility includes construction of a new
headworks, pump station, MBR treatment system, cooling towers, lift station, ultraviolet
(UV) disinfection facility, associated control and maintenance buildings, emergency
power facility, electrical system, instrumentation and plant control system, and yard
piping. Raw sewage will flow into the coarse screening facility, which consists of a
mechanical bar screen to remove larger objects. The screened sewage will then be
sent to an influent pump station, which will consist of three 750 gallon per minute (GPM)
pumps to handle a peak hour flow of 2.1 MGD. The wastewater will then be pumped to
a grit removal facility for removal of smaller grit particles. From the grit removal
process, the influent flow will be split into two channels, each containing a perforated
plate drum screen for fine screening. After passing through the fine screens, the
wastewater will then receive pH adjustments and flow into an aeration tank. For
reliability purposes, the aeration tank will be comprised of two parallel process trains.
Each train will have an anoxic zone, an aeration zone, and a membrane process tank.
Influent wastewater in the anoxic zone will be mixed with nitrified mixed liquor
suspended solids (MLSS) from the membrane process tank, thereby allowing
denitrification to occur. The aeration zone in each process train will operate as a
conventional activated sludge process with nitrification occurring. Nitrified wastewater
will then be pumped from the aeration zone into the membrane process tank for
liquid/solid separation. To accomplish denitrification and provide biomass to stabilize
the influent sewage, the mixed liquor will be returned to the anoxic zone. Excess
accumulated solids due to biological growth will be wasted from the MBR process. The
MBR permeate pumps will lift the flow through a closed pipe UV system. Disinfected
effluent will be pumped by the MBR permeate pumps to the cooling towers or, when
effluent temperatures can be met without supplemental cooling, flow directly to the
effluent magnetic flow meter prior to discharge into