[Page 68]
3. The Mountain House Community Services District is a new residential, commercial,
and industrial community being developed in western San Joaquin County, between
Old River and Interstate 205 approximately three miles west of the City of Tracy.
Mountain House, a proposed self-sufficient community, will accommodate all of the
necessary services for up to 43,500 residents. San Joaquin County LAFCO has
established Mountain House Community Services District to operate the treatment
and disposal facilities.
The Facility is composed of Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III wastewater treatment
plants (WWTF). The Phase I WWTF, which is designed only for land discharge and
is regulated under Order No. 98-109, consists of three influent headworks which
include three concrete channels, one channel is equipped with a Hycor screen, one
with a manual bar screen, the third channel is not in use; influent pumps, four
aerated lagoons in series, chemical addition, two dissolved air flotation units, a
flocculation unit, two filters, a clear well, two chlorine contact basins, bisulfite
dechlorination, sludge drying beds, two effluent storage reservoirs, a reclamation
area, and a tail water return system (Attachment C-1).
On March 13, 2007, the Discharger commenced operation of the Phase II WWTF
and began discharging pursuant to Order No. 98-192 (NPDES Permit No. 0084271).
The Phase II WWTF utilizes portions of the Phase I WWTF but includes an anoxic
reactor for flow/load equalization and a carbon source for denitrification, sequencing
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 69]
MOUNTAIN HOUSE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2007-0039
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0084271
batch reactors (SBRs) for biological treatment including nitrification and
denitrification, new tertiary filters, automated chemical feed, pre- and post on-line
turbidity instrumentation, and ultraviolet disinfection, and two stage aerobic digesters
to achieve Class B biological sludge treatment. Sludge supernatant will return to the
anoxic reactor (Attachment C-2).
Phase III, which expands the capacity to an average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 5.4
mgd, includes a larger influent pumping system and effluent pumping system, a
larger bar screen, and an additional SBR. The Phase II and Phase III WWTFs are
designed to treat biosolids to Class B as defined by 40 CFR Part 503. The biosolids
will be removed by a hauler for disposal at a licensed biosolids facility.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility and discharge point are located just north of Section 3, T2S, R4E,
MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. The Discharger proposes to discharge treated effluent at Discharge Point 001
through a diffuser at a proposed distance of 25-50 feet from shore and at a proposed
depth of 5-10 feet. Discharge Point 001 is located at Old River near Wicklund Cut at
Latitude 37° 47' 21" N and longitude 121° 31' 17" W.
3. Old River, in the vicinity of the discharge, is tidally influenced. River flow moves
upstream during the incoming or flood tide, while downstream flows occur during the
outgoing or ebb tide. Multiple dosing of the receiving water with effluent may occur
as the tide moves the water column upstream and downstream past the outfall.
Upstream San Joaquin River releases, tidal influences, the South Delta Temporary
Barriers Project, and State Water Project pumping at Clifton Court Forebay affect the
amount of flow in Old River. A more detailed discussion of Old River hydrodynamics
and dilution is provided in Attachment F, Section IV.C.2.b.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
1. Effluent limitations/Discharge Specifications contained in the Order No. 98-109, and
representative monitoring data for the discharge to land are as follows:
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 70]
MOUNTAIN HOUSE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2007-0039
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0084271
Table 2. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Data
Monitoring Data
Effluent Limitations
(From Jan 2004– To Nov 2005)
Highest Highest
Parameter (units) Highest
Average Average Maximum Average Average
Daily
Monthly Weekly Daily Monthly Weekly
Discharge
Discharge Discharge
BOD 1 (mg/L)) 60 120 17 27
5
Total Coliform Organisms
(MPN/100mL) 232 500 <2 -- 50
1 5-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand
2 30-day median
D. Compliance Summary
1. No significant violations have been reported for this facility.
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Phase I WWTF (0.45 mgd ADWF Design Capacity). The Phase I WWTF includes
four aerated lagoons in series, dissolved air flotation to remove algae, filters, a two-
unit chlorine contact basin, two effluent storage reservoirs, and an interim land
reclamation area.
2. Phase II WWTF (3.0 mgd ADWF Design Capacity) and Phase III WWTF (5.4 mgd
ADWF Design Capacity). The Phase II WWTF utilizes the existing bar screens and
influent channels, and replaces the Phase I WWTF with grit removal, an emergency
storage reservoir, an anoxic reactor/surge basin, parallel sequencing batch reactors,
an effluent surge basin, sludge digesters, sludge centrifuge, filters, and ultraviolet
disinfection. The Phase III WWTF is an expansion of the Phase II WWTF, adding
additional treatment units to handle the expanded flows. The Phase II and Phase III
WWTFs will discharge directly to Old River.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pu