[Page 63]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Merced and serves a population of
approximately 90,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is currently 12.0 million
gallons per day (mgd). Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased
expansions at the Facility to increase the design daily average flow capacity up to 16.0 mgd and up to
20.0 mgd, respectively.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility was recently upgraded and now provides tertiary treatment that includes: a
headworks pump station with fine screens and grit removal, primary clarifiers, activated
sludge basins with internal separate anoxic denitrification basins, secondary clarifiers,
flocculation basins, filters, ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection, and a re-aeration outfall.
Solids handling and treatment include: a dissolved air flotation thickener, primary digesters,
solids holding tank, digester gas holder, solids dewatering facility, centrate pump station and
equalization tank, and a lined active solar dryer. All dried biosolids are applied to the Land
Application Area (LAA) (dried biosolids are not proposed to be applied to the former
abandoned ponds 5 & 6 area which have been added to the LAA).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 10, T8S, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point
No. 002 to Hartley Slough at a point latitude 37° 15’ 12” N and longitude 120° 31’ 46” W.
Hartley Slough is a water of

[Page 64]
4. Disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is also discharged at Discharge Point
No. 004 to the Land Application Area (LAA) at a point latitude 37° 14’ 41” N and
longitude 120° 31’ 22” W. The LAA consists of 580 acres where industrial waste
(primarily food processing waste) was formerly discharged for land treatment. Currently,
the LAA is planted with a winter crop of triticale (a hybrid of wheat and rye) or rye and a
summer crop of sudan grass. Treated wastewater and biosolids from the Facility are
applied agronomically to the LAA. The Basin Plan designates groundwater beneath the
LAA (Discharge 004) as MUN, industrial service supply (IND), PRO, and AGR. The
Discharger would like to expand the Land Application Area to include formerly
abandoned Ponds 5 and 6. These ponds are directly south of the former sludge drying
beds as shown the Site Location Map in Attachment B. The expanded area will be
operated and maintained by the Discharger in a manner similar to the remainder of the
LAA, except that biosolids will not be applied to the abandoned Ponds 5 and 6 area.
Abandoned Ponds 5 and 6 consists of 90 acres and will increase the total area of the
LAA to 670 acres. Public access to the area is restricted by two existing gates that limit
access to the remainder of the LAA and WMA. Two existing groundwater monitoring
wells are on the north and eastern ends of the abandoned Ponds 5 & 6 area.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in the existing Order for discharges from Monitoring Location
M-001 and representative monitoring data since the Facility upgraded to tertiary treatment are
as follows:
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 65]
CITY OF MERCED ORDER R5-2014-0096
MERCED WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079219
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data
Monitoring Data
Effluent Limitation
(From May 2011 – To August 2013)
Lowest Highest Long-
Parameter Units
Average Average Maximum Daily Daily Term
Monthly Weekly Daily D

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions at the
Facility to increase the flow rate to 16.0 mgd and 20.0 mgd. The expansion to 16.0 mgd will
consist of adding a fourth activated sludge basin, a third sludge digester, a solids holding
tank, and additional active solar driers. The expansion to 20.0 mgd will consist of adding a
fourth primary clarifier, a fifth activated sludge basin, and a fifth secondary clarifier. Effluent
quality is anticipated to stay the same.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued p