[Page 72]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Clovis. The Facility serves a portion of
the City’s population. The Facility’s current design annual average flow capacity is 2.8 MGD, with
plans to expand the capacity to 5.6 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Operations at the Facility commenced in July 2009. The Facility treats domestic wastewater
generated by three main service areas within the City of Clovis – the Northwest, Northeast,
and Southwest service areas. Raw wastewater from the Fowler wastewater trunk line is
diverted at Pump Station B and pumped to Pump Station E. Additional wastewater is gravity-
fed to Pump Station E, which pumps the combined flow to the Facility.
The treatment system at the Facility consists of primary, secondary, and tertiary units.
Primary treatment consists of 2-millimeter (mm) drum screens with a bypass channel/bar with
screens and a vortex grit removal mechanism. Wastewater flows from the primary treatment
units into two main bioreactor trains used for secondary treatment. Each bioreactor train
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 73]
CITY OF CLOVIS ORDER R5-2019-0021
SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER REUSE FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0085235
consists of two anoxic zones followed by one aerobic zone with two aeration grids. Flow from
the aerobic zone is pumped to the membrane filtration units, which provide tertiary treatment.
The tertiary-treated effluent is disinfected using an ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system.
Currently, disinfected tertiary-treated wastewater is stored in one 3.08 million gallon (MG)
bolted-steel tank. A second 3.08 MG bolted-steel tank will be added with the completion of
Phase II, as described in section II.E of this Fact Sheet. The tertiary-treated effluent is either
used as recycled water for landscape irrigation or discharged to one of two surface water
locations (Fancher Creek at Discharge Point 001 or the Diversion Channel at Discharge
Point 002).
Solids are passed through a solids reduction process utilizing interchange tanks. The return
activated sludge (RAS) is held in the interchange tanks for approximately 10 days, under
specific environmental conditions, to break down the solids. Following the interchange tanks,
the reduced solids are purged into the digester, which holds the solids for 10 to 15 days. After
detainment in the digester, the solids are sent to dewatering equipment, which includes a
centrifuge. The dewatered biosolids are hauled off-site to the Clovis Municipal Solid Waste
Landfill. As a backup option, the biosolids could be hauled to a Class B Solids land
application facility or a composting facility. The Facility produces approximately 385 dry metric
tons of biosolids, annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids are regulated
by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T13S, R22E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Disc

===PLANNED CHANGES===

