[Page 5]
24. The existing manual bar screen will be replaced with a rotary drum screen, and the
existing sludge dewatering area will be reconstructed with a concrete pad.
25. A membrane bioreactor (MBR) package treatment plant system with a new flow meter
will replace the existing extended aeration treatment system. The MBR system will be
located within the largest of the three existing wastewater storage ponds. This
existing pond will be excavated, filled, and re-compacted prior to the installation of the
MBR system. The pond liner will be removed and disposed of off-site.
26. The Discharger will continue to disinfect the wastewater, using the existing chlorine
feed pump. Chlorine contact time will be achieved in one of the existing wastewater
storage ponds and pipelines prior to delivery to the new expansion storage ponds.
27. Improvements to the treatment plant will produce disinfected secondary-23 effluent.
With respect to BOD, nitrogen and salinity, effluent quality is expected to remain the
same.
[Page 6]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5-2013-0065 -7-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
28. The improvements project includes three new effluent storage ponds at the effluent
disposal site and expansion of the existing tailwater collection pond for a total off-site
effluent storage capacity of approximately 20.1 million gallons. The ponds will be
used to store treated effluent during wet weather months and wastewater will be
discharged to the existing spray field primarily during dry weather months. Effluent
from the ponds is pumped to the existing 50,000 gallon storage tank prior to
distribution to the 60-acre spray field. Each pond will be lined with a 60-mil high
density polyethylene (HDPE) geomembrane liner. The ponds will be interconnected
to allow flows from the treatment plant to be equalized between the storage ponds.
Pond locations are shown on Attachment B. A process flow diagram of the proposed
treatment processes is shown on Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made
part of this Order by reference. Pond descriptions are discussed below:
a. Pond 1 is the existing tailwater collection pond, which will be expanded for effluent
storage and a collection point for any tailwater returned from the spray field.
Storage capacity with a 2-foot freeboard is approximately 2.9 million gallons.
b. Pond 2 is a new effluent storage pond with a storage capacity approximately
3.9 million gallons with a 2-foot freeboard.
c. Pond 3 is a new effluent storage pond, with a storage capacity approximately
4.1 million gallons with a 2-foot freeboard.
d. Pond 4 is a new effluent storage pond with a storage capacity approximately
9.3 million gallons with a 2-foot freeboard.
29. During wet weather months (typically October through May), treated wastewater will
be stored in the proposed storage ponds and there will be limited discharges to the
spray field as weather permits. The Discharger anticipates between 5 to 16 days
available for wastewater disposal (based on the 24 hour post-storm criteria for a
100-year return period) with less than 2 inches of effluent applied over the spray field
per month during the wet weather months. During dry weather months (April through
October), treated wast

[Page 8]
37. Based on soil surveys published by the Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS), the WWTF is located in areas where predominant surficial soils are of the
Bressa-Dibble complex (30 to 75 percent slopes). The Bressa-Dibble complex is
characterized by low plasticity clays (silt loams) formed from weathering of the
underlying shale and sandstone. The depth to bedrock averages approximately
35 inches. The NRCS characterizes these soils as well-drained, slightly acidic,
moderately saline, and poorly suited for wastewater ponds, leach fields, and irrigation
disposal of wastewater because of the steep slopes, low permeability, and the
shallow depth to bedrock.
38. A total of seven monitoring wells were installed within the effluent storage and
disposal site. In April 2007, three monitoring wells, MW-1 through MW-3, were
installed around the existing tailwater collection pond. In November 2012, the
Discharger installed four additional monitoring wells, MW-1A and MW-4 through
MW-6 (previously identified as MW-2A, MW-3A, and MW-4A). Their locations are
shown on Attachment B. Well survey data and construction details are summarized
below.
Total Reference Top of Screen Bottom of Screen Groundwater
Depth Elevation 1,2 Elevation Elevation Elevation
Well ID (feet) (feet) (fe

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
Improvements to the WWTF include replacing the existing manual bar screen with a rotary
drum screen; constructing a concrete pad at the existing sludge dewatering area; replacing the
existing extended aeration treatment system with a new membrane bioreactor package
treatment plant system; and constructing three new high density polyethylene geomembrane
(HPDE) lined effluent storage ponds and expanding and lining the existing tailwater pond for a
total off-site effluent storage capacity of approximately 20.1 million gallons. Improvements to
the treatment plant will produce disinfected secondary-23 effluent. Sewer collection system
repairs consisting of excavation and repair of certain sewer lines will be performed to reduce
the amount of inflow and infiltration.
Site-Specific Conditions
The wastewater treatment plant is at an elevation of approximately 500 feet above mean sea
level (MSL). The effluent disposal and new storage pond site is located at elevations ranging
from 550 to 1,000 feet MSL. The effluent disposal site is characterized by moderately steep to
steep slopes (30 to 75 percent) with intervening westerly flowing seasonal drainages. The
effluent disposal site supports a dense growth of native grasses with scattered oak trees and
dense areas of brush.
[Page 40]
INFORMATION SHEET -2
ORDER R5-2013-0065
NAPA BERRY