[Page 76]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the Town of Discovery Bay and serves a
population of approximately 16,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is
2.35 million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility includes two plants (Plant 1 and Plant 2). Plant 1
consists of a Hycor headworks screen, an oxidation ditch, and two secondary
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 4
[Page 77]
TOWN OF DISCOVERY BAY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER R5-2019-0082
DISCOVERY BAY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078590
clarifiers flow equalization and storage basin. Plant 2 consists of a Hycor headworks
screen, two oxidation ditches, and three secondary clarifiers, sand filtration, two
ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection systems. The influent is sent to Plant 2 during normal
flow conditions and in high flow conditions influent can be diverted to Plant 1 for
additional capacity. The secondary treated effluent from both plants converges at
Plant 2 and then flows into the sand filter and then into the two UV disinfection system
channels prior to discharge at Discharge Point 001 to Old River.
Sludge handling takes place at Plant 2 and consists of an aerated clay-lined lagoon
(referred to as an aerobic digester), two clay lined sludge lagoons, three belt filter
presses, and four greenhouse solar drying beds. The Discharger produces Class A
biosolids. Biosolids are stored on site in the solar drying bed buildings or adjacent to
the buildings on a concrete floor and are hauled to a local landfill once per year.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Plant 1 is located in Section 31, T1N, R3E, MDB&M and Plant 2 is located in
Section 31, T1N, R4E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the Old
River, a water of the United States within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, at a
point latitude 37° 53’ 08

===PLANNED CHANGES===

