[Page 0]
7. The WWTP consists of an influent flow meter, headworks (comminutor), activated sludge unit
(aeration tank), two aeration ponds, a polishing pond, and 92 acre-foot clay lined effluent storage
reservoir. Wastewater disposal (via spray irrigation) has historically occurred on approximately
15 acres of land. However, in 2004 the Discharger expanded the spray disposal areas to
approximately 22 acres. Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by
reference, depicts the treatment plant, storage reservoir, and disposal areas.
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2005-0066 -2-
VALLEY SPRINGS PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
VALLEY SPRINGS WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
8. Influent flows are measured through a Palmer Bowlus Flume upstream of the plant headworks
and activated sludge unit. As of 2003, the flow has been measured and recorded by a Milltronics
Ultrasonic flow meter.
9. Influent enters the WWTP through a Chicago 7B Comminutor. The comminutor automatically
cuts coarse sewage solids into small settable solids, which settle out in a settling tank. Just
upstream of the comminutor there is a shallow manhole with a bypass side gate. If necessary the
influent can be bypassed through this gate and diverted directly into Aeration Pond No. 1
10. After sewage has gone through the comminutor, it enters an Aeration Tank. Inside the tank, air is
bubbled through the sewage. Constant aeration allows the sewage to be stirred up to facilitate
complete mixing and oxygen transfer.
11. Sewage discharged from the Aeration Tank enters two treatment ponds (Aeration Pond Nos. 1
and 2) and a polishing pond (Pond No. 3) in series.
12. Aeration Pond No. 1 has a volume of approximately 230,000 gallons and a wastewater detention
time (assuming a 80,000 gpd flow) of 2.9 days. Oxygen is introduced into the pond by a
mechanical floating aerator. Overflow from Pond No.1 flows through connecting conduits to
Aeration Pond No. 2. Periodically, solids are pumped from the bottom of the pond and disposed
of into the sludge drying beds.
13. Aeration Pond No. 2 has a volume of approximately 575,000 gallons and a wastewater detention
time (assuming a 80,000 gpd flow) of 7.2 days. Pond No.2 also has an aerator unit. Wastewater
from Pond No. 2 is gravity fed into Pond No. 3.
14. Pond No. 3 is used as a polishing and settling pond. The pond has a working capacity of
470,5000 gallons with wastewater detention time of approximately 5.9 days. With no aeration
taking place in the pond, this pond allows further treatment and settleability of the wastewater.
Once the wastewater level reaches two feet of freeboard in the pond, it flows into the effluent
storage reservoir.
15. The effluent storage reservoir consists of a clay lined earthen reservoir that has an approximate
storage volume of 92.2 acre-feet (based on two feet of freeboard). The RWD did not provide
specific information (i.e., construction details, type of clay, etc.) about the clay liner system.
16. The Discharger has historically disposed of wastewater on approximately 15 acres of hillside
east of the wastewater treatment and storage system. In J

[Page 3]
25. In order for the WWTP to handle an average monthly dry weather flow of 78,500 gpd, the
Discharger states that it must expand the spray disposal fields from 22 acres to 33 acres. Because
the spray disposal areas are located on a hill (with some areas being fairly steep) the Discharger
indicated in the RWD that is would construct additional tailwater control features around the
entire spray disposal area. The tailwater control system would be designed such that tailwater
would flow to a tailwater return pump(s) and return the water back to the WWTP headworks.
This Order requires the Discharger to submit a Spray Irrigation Improvement report showing that
the tailwater collection ditches are adequately sloped such that the wastewater is collected
instead of infiltrated, and that the ditches are no wider than in a typical agricultural field.
26. In anticipation of the WDRs being updated, the Discharger installed chlorinationfacilities
consisting of pumps, chlorine storage, and a building. The spray irrigation pump has a
300-gallon per minute pump capacity with the ability to pump approximately 432,000 gpd.
Sodium hypochlorite liquid will be used to disinfect wastewater prior to irrigation, and the
Discharger anticipates a dose of 20 mg/l will be needed to achieve a disinfection level of 23/240
MPN for total coliform organisms. The chlorine facilities are operational, but are not connected
to the spray irrigation pump system. This Order requires the Discharger to submit a report
certifying that the disinfection system is operational, can meet a 23/240 MPN disinfection
standard, and is connected to the spray irrigation pump system.
27. The RWD indicates that the Discharger plans to modify the sludge drying facilities within the
next 3 to 5 years. Modifications include installing drain tiles beneath the 30-foot by 60-foot
sludge drying bed. A decant structure will be constructed which will drain the liquid as the solids
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2005-0066 -5-
VALLEY SPRINGS PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
VALLEY SPRINGS WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
settle to the bottom of the sludge bed. This Order requires that all liquids are collected and
returned to the WWTP.
28. Based on information provided in the RWD, and discussio

===PLANNED CHANGES===

