[Page 57]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Facility provides sewerage service for portions of the Copper Cove Community, located in the
southwestern part of Calaveras County. The sewage system has approximately 1,800 connections and
serves a population of around 4,200. The current design average dry weather flow for the secondary
treatment and storage system is 0.35 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of a secondary treatment system and a Title 22 tertiary treatment system.
The secondary treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks and flow diverter, two
aerated ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) operated in parallel, followed by an additional aerated pond
(Pond 4) for settling and polishing, followed by tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection. Pond 3 is currently out of service and Pond 5 is no longer used for storage of
treated wastewater. Un-disinfected, secondary treated wastewater is stored on-site in an
unlined storage reservoir (Pond 6).
The reclamation portion of the Facility produces recycled water for irrigation of the SCGC, to
supply water to the jurisdictional wetlands, and for land application via spray irrigation on 35
acres of spray irrigation fields. The Title 22 tertiary treatment system consists of a filter and UV
disinfection. The tertiary treatment portion of the Facility is operated intermittently depending on
demand and water availability. The design treatment capacity of the tertiary treatment system
ranges from 0.54 MGD to 1 MGD depending on UV transmittance. The collection system,
secondary treatment and storage facilities, sludge treatment and control, and land disposal of
tertiary treated effluent onsite are regulated under separate WDR Order R5-2010-0070.
Title 22 tertiary treated effluent is collected in a reclaimed water storage tank and then conveyed
to Pond NC-2D at the SCGC to be used for golf course irrigation or to provide makeup water for
the wetland system. CCWD also provides raw water from Lake Tulloch to the SCGC for
[Page 58]
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF COURSE, L.P. ORDER R5-2018-0040
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084620
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
irrigation. The raw water is piped to the recycled water storage tank at the Facility where it
commingles with recycled water, if present, and is then conveyed to Pond NC-2D.
This Order regulates the discharge of tertiary-treated wastewater mixed with raw water from
Lake Tulloch from Pond NC-2D to the jurisdictional wetlands at Discharge Point 001. This
Order also includes the Title 22 water reclamation requirements for the Facility for reuse on the
SCGC.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. This Facility is located in Section 26, T1N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a part
of this Order.
2. In 1994, the US Army Corps of Engineers authorized fill activity pursuant to a Clean Water
Act Section 404 general permit, Nationwide Permit 26 (404 permit), at what is now the
jurisdictional wetland system. The wetland system includes several man-made and natural
lakes, including Mitchell Lake. The 404 permit required that several perennial ponds and
wetland areas (jurisdictional wetlands) have a continuous supply of water to maintain
minimum levels. The SCGC has sole responsibility to fulfill the mitigation requirements of
supplying water to the wetlands. Therefore, SCGC uses water from Pond NC-2D when
necessary to supply make-up water to the jurisdictional wetlands shown in Attachment B.
Mitchell Lake, which is tributary to Littlejohns Creek, is not supplied with reclaimed water
from Pond NC-2D. During severe wet weather events, some of the jurisdictional wetlands
receiving reclaimed water may overflow to Mitchell Lake and thence to Littlejohns Creek;
however, the fraction of reclaimed water in overflows to Littlejohns Creek is expected to be
minimal since reclaimed water supplemented with raw water from Lake Tulloch is used for
make-up water only as necessary and will be diluted by the large amounts of storm water
runoff into the jurisdictional wetlands. Pond NC-2D does not receive irrigation runoff or storm
water runoff, as a 54-inch bypass pipe diverts all runoff in order to minimize the potential for
overflows of reclaimed water from Pond NC-2D to Littlejohns Creek.
Incidental runoff from golf course irrigation may enter Littlejohns Creek at eight locations.
Neither the use of reclaimed water for golf course irrigation nor the incidental runoff of
excess irrigation water is considered a point source discharge to waters of the United States
and does not require an NPDES permit.
3. Tertiary treated municipal wastewater mixed with raw water from Lake Tulloch is discharged
at Discharge Point No. 001 to the jurisdictional wetlands, waters of the United States, at
multiple discharge locations (refer to Attachment B).
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
1. Effluent limitations and discharge specifications contained in Order R5-2013-0072-01 for
discharges of UV disinfected effluent from the Discharge Point No. 001 (Monitoring
Locations REC-001 and REC-002) and representative monitoring data from the term of
Order R5-2013-0072-01 are as follows:
[Page 59]
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF COURSE, L.P. ORDER R5-2018-0040
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084620
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Lim

===PLANNED CHANGES===

