[Page 59]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system, and provides sewerage service for the City of Nevada City. The WWTP serves a
population of 3,050 and at least two industrial sources (one zero-discharging categorical
industrial user and one non-significant industrial user). The identified industrial users
generate nearly no non-domestic wastewater discharges. The WWTP design daily
average flow capacity is 0.69 MGD and accepts an average of 0.40 MGD of wastewater
per day. The WWTP experiences significant infiltration and inflow (I&I) during wet
weather, but has not experienced sulfide erosion.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, lime addition, biological
treatment, filtration utilizing cloth disc filters and sand filtration in parallel operation, and
chlorination/dechlorination. The sludge is treated in an aerobic digester, dewatered by a
belt filter press, and hauled to the Redwood Landfill in Navato. The Facility’s design flow
is 0.69 MGD and the maximum wet weather flow rate of 1.60 MGD.
The headworks consists of bar screens, lime addition, and a manually-scraped grit
channel. The primary sedimentation basins are not used to remove solids, but rather to
equalize the feed into selector activated sludge basins. These basins were added in 2007
and replaced sequencing batch reactors.
Secondary effluent is further treated through two secondary clarifiers and a traveling
bridge sand filter, with a design capacity of 1.0 MGD, in order to produce tertiary grade
wastewater for discharge to Deer Creek. Filter backwash returns to the headworks.
Tertiary filtered wastewater is then chlorinated and dechlorinated prior to discharge to
Deer Creek.
Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site to a landfill. There is no primary sludge because
the primary sedimentation basins are operated as equalization basins. Secondary waste
activation sludge is aerobically digested in a converted but undersized anaerobic digestor.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 60]
City of Nevada City ORDER NO. R5-2008-0177
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0079901
The digested sludge is dewatered in a filter press with the filtrate returning to the
headworks. The sludge is off-hauled to a landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 12, T16N, R8E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment
B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Deer Creek, a
water of the United States and a tributary to the Yuba River at a point latitude 39 o,
15’, 35.1” N and longitude 121 o, 01 ’, 50.7 ” W.
C. Summary of

[Page 61]
The Discharger recently completed a 2007 Wastewater Improvement Project. The
improvements include improving the headworks, converting the sequencing batch reactors
into selector activated sludge basins, adding two secondary clarifiers, installing a second
effluent filter, rebuilding the laboratory and office building, and making improvements to the
effluent sampling and pH adjustment processes. According to the ROWD, the Discharger
has no further plans to expand the Facility during the next five years. In their comments to
the proposed permit, the Discharger indicated that they are working on a small
hydroelectric project utilizing the effluent from the Facility. Prior to any discharge from the
new project, a new ROWD fully characterizing the project will need to be submitted

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger recently completed a 2007 Wastewater Improvement Project. The
improvements include improving the headworks, converting the sequencing batch reactors
into selector activated sludge basins, adding two secondary clarifiers, installing a second
effluent filter, rebuilding the laboratory and office building, and making improvements to the
effluent sampling and pH adjustment processes. According to the ROWD, the Discharger
has no further plans to expand the Facility during the next five years. In their comments to
the proposed permit, the Discharger indicated that they are working on a small
hydroelectric project utilizing the effluent from the Facility. Prior to any discharge from the
new project, a new ROWD fully characterizing the project will need to be submitted