[Page 91]
1. Existing Facility. The Facility is staffed and operated 24 hours per day and
consists of influent pumps, septage receiving station, mechanical bar screening;
aerated grit handling, grit classifiers that wash and dewater grit, covered primary
sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen biological treatment by activated sludge,
secondary sedimentation, disinfection with chlorine gas, and dechlorination with
sulfur dioxide. Effluent can be diverted to lined and unlined emergency storage
basins as needed to meet effluent dilution, thermal, and disinfection requirements or
divert excess flows. The current average dry weather flows are approximately 141
mgd and the Facility has a designed capacity of 181 mgd. Odors are controlled
through stripping towers and carbon treatment.
Solids are thickened by dissolved air floatation and gravity belt thickeners. Primary
and secondary sludge is mixed and sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately
fifteen days or more, stored at the solids storage basins for three to five years then
harvested and injected into lined dedicated land disposal sites. Some biosolids are
recycled with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger can
dispose of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option.
Separate Waste Discharge Requirements (Order No. R5-2003-0076) in
conformance with Title 27, California Code of Regulations, Division 2, Subdivision 1
regulate the biosolids and solids storage and disposal facilities, the Class II
dedicated land treatment units, unclassified solids storage basins, the Class III grit
and screenings landfill closure and the groundwater Corrective Action Program
(CAP).
The Facility discharges to the Sacramento River just downstream of the Freeport
Bridge via an outfall diffuser. The outfall diffuser is approximately 300 feet long with
74 ports and is placed perpendicular to the river flow. At times, the river flows in the
reverse direction northeast towards the City of Sacramento, due to tidal activit

[Page 92]
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility will
be modified in order to comply with certain new requirements in this Order consistent
with the applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and operation is as
follows, and differs seasonally.
The 181 mgd ADWF design capacity is unchanged. Facility modification will include
replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological treatment facilities with biological
nutrient removal (BNR) air activated treatment facilities capable of removing
ammonia and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration
with granular media filters, and an increase in storage facilities. The Facility will
continue to be staffed and operated 24 hours per day and will consist of influent
pumps; septage receiving station; mechanical bar screening; aerated grit handling;
grit classifiers that wash and dewater grit; covered primary sedimentation tanks;
primary effluent peak-shaving facilities; BNR air activated sludge treatment; nitrifying
sequencing batch reactor for treating high ammonia concentration waste streams
from solids storage basins and biosolids reclamation facility; secondary
sedimentation; granular media filtration; disinfection with chlorine liquid; and
dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. Compliant effluent can be diverted to lined
emergency storage basins as needed to meet effluent dilution and thermal limits
before discharge to the river. Non-compliant effluent, primary influent or effluent,
and raw wastewater can be diverted to lined emergency storage basins as needed
for any reason including process upsets, or diversions for excess flows, and returned
for additional treatment to the influent of the facility. Odors are controlled through
biological fixed media scrubbers, chemical oxidizing towers and carbon treatment
towers.
The BNR activated sludge treatment facilities will be designed to process up to
330 mgd. Flows in excess of 330 mgd will be stored in peak-shaving storage
facilities and returned for processing through the activated sludge treatment facilities
when capacity is available. All wastewater will receive secondary treatment through
the BNRs. The tertiary filters will be designed to process flows up to 217 mgd. This
Order requires seasonal disinfection requirements and the Facility will be operated
differently seasonally, as follows:
a. 1 May – 31 October. The Facility will be operated to meet Title 22 or equivalent
disinfection criteria (Provision VI.C.6.a).
[Page 93]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2010-0114-032
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
b. 1 November – 30 April (commences 1 November 2023)
In the descriptions below, “treated effluent discharge” means discharge to the
river or storage basins, and “filtered” means tertiary filtration of BNR effluent
under filter operations consistent with the design hydraulic loading rate
necessary to comply with the Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection criteria.
i. When treated effluent discharge is 217 mgd, or less:
The entire treated effluent discharge will be filtered.
ii. When treated effluent discharge exceeds 217 mgd:
Treated effluent discharge flows up to 217 mgd will be filtered, and remaining
wastewater will not be filtered. Filtered and non-filtered wastewater will be
combined prior to disinfection by the chlorination/de-chlorination facilities.
Solids will be thickened by dissolved air flotation and gravity belt thickeners. Primary
and secondary sludge will be mixed and sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately
fifteen days or more, stored at the solids storage basins for three to five years then
harvested and injected into lined dedicated land disposal sites. It is expected some
biosolids will be recycled with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the
Discharger will still dispose of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal
option. Separate Waste Discharge Requirements (Order No. R5-2003-0076 or any
updated order) in conformance with Title 27, California Code of Regulations, Division 2,
Subdivision 1 will continue to regulate the biosolids and solids storage and disposal
facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment units, unclassified solids storage basins,
the Class III grit and screenings landfill closure and groundwater Corrective Action
Program (CAP).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 19, T7N, R5E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to
Sacramento River, a water of the United States and within the legal boundary of the
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta at a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

