[Page 53]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities of Lake Wildwood and Penn
Valley and serves a population of approximately 8,100. The design average dry weather flow
capacity of the Facility is 0.69 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks with an auger-type fine screen,
equalization basin, nitrification/denitrification basins, two oxidation ditches, two secondary
clarifiers, four parallel dual media (anthracite coal and sand) filters, and ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection.
Scum and waste activated sludge (WAS) from the secondary clarifiers are pumped to the
Walker Tank which has an aeration basin, secondary clarifier, and digestion area. Sludge
from the digestion area is pumped to a centrifuge for dewatering. The dewatered sludge is
taken off-site for disposal as alternative daily cover at a regional municipal solid waste landfill.
The Facility includes sludge drying beds; however, the sludge drying beds have not been
used for that purpose for several years.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 20, T16N, R7E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B, a
part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Deer Creek below
the Lake Wildwood spillway, a water of the United States and a tributary to the Yuba
River at a point lat

[Page 55]
3 Median for any three consecutive bioassays.
4 Applicable until submittal of written certification that a chlorine-based disinfection system is no longer in use
and chlorine-containing chemicals are not added to the treatment process for wastewater discharged to the
receiving water.
5 Applied as a 4-day average effluent limitation.
6 Applied as a 1-hour average effluent limitation.
7 Applied as a 7-day median effluent limitation.
8 The average dry weather flow shall not exceed 1.12 MGD.
9 Represents the maximum observed average daily flow.
10 The monthly average total recoverable mercury loading in the effluent shall not exce

[Page 55]
4. A compliance inspection of the Facility was conducted on 22 January 2013. No major
findings were noted during the inspection.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 56]
NEVADA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER R5-2015-0029
LAKE WILDWOOD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077828
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning a regionalization project to accept approximately 0.06 MGD
untreated septic tank effluent diverted from the Penn Valley Wastewater Treatment Plant
during the term of this Order. The project includes installation of a sewage force main and lift
station from the Penn Valley collection system to the Facility. The regionalization project
would result in the abandonment of the Penn Valley Wastewater Treatment Plant, the Valley
Oak Court Wastewater Treatment Plant, and another independently operated pond
percolation treatment plant. The current design capacity of the Facility of 0.69 MGD is
sufficient to accommodate the additional flows.
The Discharger is also planning the following upgrades, subject to funding:
1. Upgrading or replacing the existing headworks to add better screening capabilities, grit
removal, and odor control for the influent sewer;
2. New septage and vactor waste receiving facilities;
3. Improvements to mitigate odors from the plant and the collection system adjacent to the
plant; and
4. Due to concerns regarding chronic toxicity that may be associated with the UV
disinfection system, the Discharger may construct upgrades to add peracetic acid (PAA)
upstream of the UV disinfection to enhance disinfection at the Facility. This Order
includes effluent monitoring for PAA when PAA is used in the treatment system.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commen