[Page 75]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system, and provides sewerage service to the Thunder Valley Casino, a gaming and
entertainment facility. As described further in section II.E of this Fact Sheet (Attachment F),
the Discharger is currently planning to upgrade the Facility to accommodate the expansion
of the existing gaming and restaurant facilities and the addition of a hotel, performing arts
center, and parking structure.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of an influent pump station, headworks (flow
measurement and fine screening), immersed membrane bioreactor (IMB), and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection. The IMB combines an anoxic zone, aeration,
clarification, and membrane filtration in a single tank. The filtration stage is a
microfiltration process, in which wastewater is pulled by vacuum through membranes.
The filter membrane nominal pore size is 0.1 microns. The current design peak daily
flow for the treatment system is 0.35 MGD. As needed, sludge is pumped directly from
the process overflow tank to two belt filter presses and then trucked off-site to a local
landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 32 and 33, T12N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to Orchard
Creek, a water of the United States and a tributary to Auburn Ravine, East Side
Canal, Cross Canal, and the Sacramento River at a point latitude 38° 50’ 44” N

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As part of their application, the Discharger identified plans to expand the treatment
capacity of the existing on-site IMB tertiary wastewater treatment plant in two phases to
accommodate expansion of existing gaming and restaurant facilities and the addition of
a hotel, performing arts center, and parking structure. As a result, the Discharger has
requested authorization to increase the design peak daily flow capacity from 0.35 MGD
to 0.7 MGD in the first phase and to 0.875 MGD in the second phase. The expansion of
the Facility will include improvements to influent screening, biological treatment, and
membrane filtration capacity, effluent disinfection, and the discharge outfall diffuser.
The first phase of the expansion of the Facility is expected to be completed by summer
2010. This Order authorizes the discharge of up to 0.7 MGD and 0.875 MGD after
notification to the Regional Water Board as specified in detail in sections VI.C.6.a, b,
and c of the Order.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Ord