[Page 60]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Mountain House and serves a
population of approximately 16,000. The Facility’s current design daily average flow capacity for
tertiary treated wastewater is 3.0 MGD, with plans to expand the capacity to 5.4 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility is planned to expand in three phases. Currently, the
Discharger is discharging from the Phase II wastewater treatment plant. The Phase II
treatment system consists of influent screening, grit removal, an anoxic reactor for flow/load
equalization and a carbon source for denitrification, sequencing batch reactors (SBR’s) for
biological treatment including nitrification and denitrification, cloth media filtration, automated
chemical feed, pre- and post-filtration turbidity instrumentation, and an ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection system. The Facility also includes two lined, aerated storage reservoirs for use
during emergency situations and during plant maintenance. The storage reservoirs have a
capacity of approximately 12 million gallons, which provide automatic short-term emergency
storage. Level and flow metering, aeration equipment, and discharge pumping facilities are
available to allow a metered return to the regular process stream.
Sludge handling at the Facility includes two stage aerobic digesters, a drum thickener, and a
centrifuge. Sludge supernatant is returned to the anoxic reactor. Solids are collected in a truck
and removed by a hauler (currently Synagro) for disposal at a licensed biosolids facility. The
Facility produces approximately 150 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 61]
MOUNTAIN HOUSE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRI

[Page 63]
E. Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of upgrading the Facility to accommodate for planned growth
within the service area. The treatment system capacity will be expanded to 5.4 MGD through
a three-phased expansion. The Discharger currently discharges from the Phase II upgraded
Facility, which replaced the Phase I Facility with the implementation of grit removal, an
emergency storage reservoir, an anoxic reactor/surge basin, parallel SBR’s, an effluent surge
basin, sludge digesters, sludge centrifuge, cloth media filters, and a UV disinfection system.
As described in the ROWD, the proposed Phase III improvements include the addition of
larger influent and effluent pumping systems, a larger bar screen, and an additional SBR and
cloth media filtration system in order to account for expanded flows up to 5.4 MGD. The
Discharger must demonstrate compliance with Special Provision VI.C.6.b of this Order prior to
increasing flow to 5.4 MGD.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is in the process of upgrading the Facility to accommodate for planned growth
within the service area. The treatment system capacity will be expanded to 5.4 MGD through
a three-phased expansion. The Discharger currently discharges from the Phase II upgraded
Facility, which replaced the Phase I Facility with the implementation of grit removal, an
emergency storage reservoir, an anoxic reactor/surge basin, parallel SBR’s, an effluent surge
basin, sludge digesters, sludge centrifuge, cloth media filters, and a UV disinfection system.
As described in the ROWD, the proposed Phase III improvements include the addition of
larger influent and effluent pumping systems, a larger bar screen, and an additional SBR and
cloth media filtration system in order to account for expanded flows up to 5.4 MGD. The
Discharger must demonstrate compliance with Special Provision VI.C.6.b of this Order prior to
increasing flow to 5.4 MGD.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves