[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of the southeast portion of
the City of Roseville and portions of Placer County and the South Placer Municipal Utility
District, and serves a population of approximately 111,000. The Facility’s design ADWF is
18 mgd.
The Discharger diverted part of the wastewater directed to the Facility to the new Pleasant
Grove WWTP. Wastewater from five of the Discharger’s six permitted significant industrial
users (SIUs) is now discharged to the Pleasant Grove WWTP. Wastewater was diverted to
the Pleasant Grove Facility over a 7 month period and was completed in January 2005.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The wastewater treatment system at the Facility consists of mechanically cleaned bar
screens, grit chambers, primary clarification, secondary treatment consisting of
nitrification and denitrification, aeration, and secondary clarification. Tertiary treatment is
provided by chemical coagulation with organic polymers, followed by filtration,
chlorination, dechlorination with sulfur dioxide, pH adjustment, and cascade aeration.
Two unlined 30-acre ponds (formerly oxidation ponds) have been converted to
emergency storage (flow equalization) basins for plant influent. Influent is diverted to the
emergency storage basins during large storm events to prevent overwhelming of the
treatment process, to store partially treated wastewater, and to prevent plant upsets by
the influent that would be harmful to the treatment process. The influent stays in the
emergency storage basins usually no more than 2 days and all of the wastewater in the
basins is sent back through the plant for treatment.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 71]
CITY OF ROSEVILLE ORDER NO. R5-2008-0077
DRY CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079502
Biosolids treatment consists of a gravity belt thickener, primary digesters, a sludge
holding tank, and a belt filter press for dewatering. Biosolids are disposed by land
application in Sacramento County by the contractor Synagro Technologies, Inc. When
land capacity is reached (predicted to occur in winter), biosolids are disposed at Allied
Waste (Forward Landfill).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Water
1. The Facility is located in Section 9, T10N, R6E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment B,
a part of this Order.
2. Under the previous Order the Facility was permitted to discharge from the following
locations:
a. Dry Creek (Discharge Point No. 001) at a point Latitude 38o 43’ 53” N and
Longitude 121o 18’ 58” W;
b. New Pleasant Grove Creek West (Discharge Point

[Page 74]
2. A pretreatment compliance inspection was conducted on 15 February 2006. The
primary finding from this inspection was that although the City recognized that
Envirotech Dewatering could have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the
Wastewater Treatment Plant, it was recommended to classify Envirotech Dewatering
as an SIU and issue a permit to the non-domestic user to ensure adequate protection
of the Facility.
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The City of Roseville is planning to replace chlorine disinfection with ultraviolet
disinfection in the wastewater treatment process. According to the Discharger,
replacement of the chlorine disinfection unit will be complete by May 2010.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of the Limitations and Discharge Requirements
(Findings). This section provides supplemental information, where appropriate, for the
plans, policies, and regulations relevant to the discha