[Page 1]
8. Wastewater treatment has been performed at the treatment system area since 1956.
Originally, an Imhoff Tank (similar to a large septic tank) was used to settle solids; effluent
from the Imhoff Tank was discharged to ponds for biological treatment and percolation of
wastewater. The treatment system as it exists presently was constructed in 1996, and was
a complete reconstruction of the previous facility.
9. The existing treatment system consists of an automated influent screen, flow meter,
influent pump station, four aerated lagoons, a settling pond, and nine effluent rapid
infiltration basins. An emergency storage basin also exists. The treatment system site
plan is shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by
reference.
10. The facility was designed to treat an average flow of 172,000 gallons per day (gpd) and a
peak daily flow of 756,000 gpd. Because inadequate wastewater disposal capacity existed
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0108 3
CITY OF LOYALTON AND GRANDI RANCH
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SIERRA COUNTY
at the wastewater facility, the Discharger contracted to dispose of wastewater on the
nearby Bar One Ranch. That discharge was authorized by WRRs Order No. 5-01-051.
11. The existing treatment system is being reconfigured, storage is being added, and a new
LAA is being developed. The improvements are needed to provide the storage capacity
required in CDO R5-2005-0089 and to address inflow and infiltration issues. The
collection system allows significant inflow and infiltration of groundwater and some areas
served by the collection system are within the 100-year flood zone. When flooded, surface
water can enter the collection system. The Discharger plans the following improvements:
a. Construct a new 80 acre LAA that will be used to grow alfalfa or other crops. The
crop will be removed from the LAA.
b. Replace the existing influent pump station pumps with new pumps that provide
increased capacity.
c. Convert seven of the nine existing rapid infiltration ponds into two 60-mil thick HDPE
liner equipped effluent storage ponds that provide 120 ac●ft of treated wastewater
storage.
d. Convert the remaining two of the nine rapid infiltration ponds into a constructed
wetland that will polish effluent from the treatment ponds during average flow
conditions. (The wetland will be bypassed during high flow events.)
e. Replace 2,000 linear feet of undersized and/or flat gradient sewer trunk main, which
requires excessive maintenance and is more likely to cause sanitary sewer
overflows.
f. Replace 20 existing manhole lids with new gasketed frames and watertight covers
within the 100-year floodplain to reduce inflow during flood events.
g. Relocate a pipeline crossing that exists under Smithneck Creek. The existing
pipeline has become exposed by channel erosion and could be damaged during a
flood. The new crossing will be in a safer location and the pipe will be located further
below the stream bed.
h. Install a new on-site sodium hypochlorite generating disinfection system and piping
for the LAA.
If funding allows, the project will also include the following:
i. Install a liner in the existing unlined emergency storage pond.
j. Install a new sewer line crossing beneath Highway 49 at the west side of Loyalton,
and replace an additional 1,000 feet of undersized and/or flat gradient sewers.
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0108 4
CITY OF LOYALTON AND GRANDI RANCH
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SIERRA COUNTY
12. Wastewater is collected by gravity to the treatment system headworks where it is pumped
into the treatment ponds. The headworks sump is equipped with a high level alarm that is
programmed to dial employees if alarm conditions exist.
13. Wastewater is metered using a flume and ultrasonic flow meters at the headworks.
Additional flow meters will be installed at the irrigation pumping station, and at the land
application area tailwater pumping station.
14. A wastewater treatment schematic of the proposed treatment system is presented on
Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. The
following summarizes the treatment process:
a. Wastewater will be biologically treated in the mechanically aerated treatment ponds.
Effluent from the aerated ponds will be discharged to a settling pond prior to
discharge to a constructed wetland during normal flow conditions (the wetland will be
bypassed during high flow conditions); effluent from the wetlands (or bypassed water)
will be discharged to the lined storage ponds.
b. Wastewater in the 120 ac●ft storage ponds will have undergone biological treatment
but will not be disinfected. This wastewater will be disinfected prior to land
application. In this Order, wastewater that has been disinfected is termed “recycled
water.”
c. Disinfection will be performed using sodium hypochlorite, which will be provided by
an on-site generator. The unit will include two generating cells, hypochlorite storage
for three days, two metering pumps, and a low chlorine residual alarm as part of the
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system.
i. Because milking animals will not graze on the LAA, Title 22 does not require
disinfection of the wastewater. However, because stormwater will be allowed to
escape the LAA during the months wastewater is not applied (November
through February), disinfection of wastewater is required by this Order.
ii. The disinfection criteria is consistent with Title 22 California Code of Regulations
(CCR) Section 60301.225, disinfected secondary - 23 recycled water, which is
defined as: recycled water that has been oxidized and disinfected so that the
median concentration of total coliform bacteria in the disinfected effluent does
not exceed a most probable number (MPN) of 23 per 100 milliliters utilizing the
bacteriological results of the last seven days for which analyses have been
completed, and the number of total coliform bacteria does not exceed an MPN of
240 per 100 milliliters in more than one sample in any 30 day period.
15. Pond configurations will change as part of the facility upgrade. However, the footprint of
the treatment area will not change. The existing wastewater ponds are described below:
a. Four aerated treatment ponds provide a combined capacity of 6.50 ac●ft.
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0108 5
CITY OF LOYALTON AND GRANDI RANCH
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SIERRA COUNTY
b. The settling pond provides a capacity of 1.52 ac●ft.
c. The emergency storage pond provides 14.66 ac●ft of capacity
d. The rapid infiltration basins provide a combined capacity of approximately 6.0 ac●ft.
(Seven of the nine basins will be reconfigured into the 120 ac●ft storage ponds; the
remaining two basins will be converted to constructed wetlands.)
16. Emergency electrical power is provided by an on-site emergency electrical generator. The
existing generator is capable of running the headworks lift pumps, some of the mechanical
aerators, and the exterior lighting at the WWTF. As part of the system improvements,
additional emergency electrical generation will be added. In addition, the SCADA system
will be provided with battery backup in case the emergency electrical generation fails.
17. Depending on the season and location where stormwater falls, it will be handled as follows:
a. Stormwater that falls on the roadways surrounding the ponds at the treatment area
drains into the ponds. Other stormwater falling on roofs and paved areas drains to
the surrounding unpaved area where it infiltrates.
b. Stormwater that falls on the LAA during the wastewater application season (March
through October) will be captured and reapplied to the LAA. Tailwater will be
handled the same way. During the nonapplication season (November through
February), stormwater that falls on the LAA will be

===PLANNED CHANGES===

