[Page 87]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of El Dorado Hills and
serves a population of approximately 40,000 through the use of two wastewater treatment
plants. The WWTP permitted by this Order has a design daily average flow capacity is
3.0 mgd. The Facility produces reclaimed water in accordance with Title 22 and the
California Water Code for reuse in the Discharger’s reclaimed water distribution system.
When the facility is not reclaiming the wastewater for reuse the facility discharges to
surface waters in accordance with this Order. The Facility typically discharges to the
receiving water between November and April, and reclaims water for reuse between May
and October. During the time when the Facility is reclaiming the wastewater for reuse
there are no discharges to the receiving water.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system consists of headworks, screening and grit removal, primary
clarifiers, activated sludge basins with nitrification, biological nutrient removal tanks,
secondary clarifiers, tertiary filters, dissolved air flotation sludge thickening, belt filter
press, anaerobic digester, and chlorine contact disinfection. Chlorine contact disinfection
will be replaced with ultraviolet (UV) disinfection during the term of this permit. Sludge is
anaerobically digested and dewatered using a belt filter press. Dried biosolids are hauled
away for use in biosolids land applications. Wastewater is either treated and recycled by
the Discharger for use in their reclaimed water distribution system or treated and
discharged from Discharge 001 (see table on cover page) to the Carson Creek, a water of
the United States, and a tributary to Cosumnes River within the San Joaquin River
Watershed. The specification

[Page 90]
8. Five (5) instances of not conducting three species chronic toxicity monitoring four
(4) times per year.
The previous Order required effluent monitoring only during periods of discharge to the
receiving water. The previous Order implied that receiving water monitoring was
required even during periods where the Discharger was not discharging to the receiving
water. The Discharger did not monitor the receiving water during periods when there
was no discharge to the receiving water. This Order clarifies monitoring and reporting
requirements for the receiving water.
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to expand their facility from 3.0 mgd ADWF to 4.0 mgd ADWF
during the term of this permit. The expansion will replace their existing headworks with
a new headworks to accommodate increase in influent flows. The headworks will be
housed in a new building with odor control. The Discharger also plans to add two flow
equalization basins with appropriate flow handling system (pumping station) and odor
control. Odor control for the equalization basins and the headworks will be handled by
addition of a biofilter. The Discharger also plans to add an additional algae Dissolved Air
Flotation (DAF) Thickener with associated appurtenant equipment building. The
Discharger also plans to add two new secondary effluent pump stations providing
additional flow to/from their 73 million gallon storage reservoir. The Discharger also
plans to add one new tertiary filter bank including a filter feed pump station and add
Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection to meet new effluent limits. Finally, during the proposed
expansion the Discharger will clean out two existing unlined storage ponds and replace
them with lined storage ponds to prevent percolation of wastewater into groundwater
aquifers. The proposed changes are documented in Attachment C-1.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations identified in section II of the Limitations and Discharge Requirements
(Findings). This section provides supplemental information