[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of the City of Williams and
serves a population of approximately 4,794. The Facility design daily average flow
capacity is 0.5 million gallons per day (mgd).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of headworks with grit removal, aerated
waste stabilization ponds and chlorination/dechlorination. The influent wastewater
passes through the grit removal chamber before directing to four aerated facultative
ponds arranged in series. There are two aerators at pond no. 1, seven aerators at
pond no. 2, two aerators at pond no. 3, and one aerator at pond no. 4. The detention
time of the ponds is approximately 20 days. Sludge is occasionally removed from the
ponds, dewatered and disposed off-site. The wastewater from the ponds is then
infected and discharged into Salt Creek. Chlorine gas is used for chlorination and
sodium bisulfite for dechlorination. The chlorine dosage varies between 15 mg/L to 24
mg/L. The sodium bisulfite dosage is approximately 60 mg/L.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 11, T15N, R3W, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Salt Creek, a
water of the United States at point Latitude 39o 10’ 11” N and longitude 122o 9’
13” W.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 67]
CIT

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning to expand and upgrade the existing pond system with an
activated sludge process that removes organics and ammonia, followed by filtration and
disinfection prior to discharge. Constructions for the wastewater treatment plant
upgrades was scheduled to start in late summer or early fall of 2007 however funding
issues have been problematic. The plant was expected to attain operational level in
2008.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the applicable plans, policies, and
regulations iden