[Page 65]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Bear Valley Springs in
Bear Valley and serves a population of approximately 1,000 residents. The monthly
permitted Average Dry Weather Flow (ADWF) to Discharge Point 001 or the Use Area is
0.25 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility consists of an oxidation ditch plant which includes a bar screen, an
oxidation ditch, a secondary clarifier, a chlorinator and contact chamber, two continuous
backwash sand filters (used alternately), and a final chlorine contact chamber (flow
through only; no chlorine added in this unit).
The Discharger stores treated effluent in a lined, 240,000 gallon storage pond before
discharging it to Sycamore Creek (i.e., Discharge Point 001) during the late fall through
the early spring, or recycling the treated effluent at the Use Area (i.e., Bear Valley Oak
Tree Country Club – Golf Course) during the late spring through the early fall for
irrigation purposes. The Discharger’s self monitoring reports indicate that about 50
percent of the effluent is discharged to Sycamore Creek and the other 50 percent is
recycled on the Use Area. When discharges are directed to the Use Area, coagulation is
not required if the treated filter effluent meets certain limitations, as per Section
60304(a) of Title 22. When recycling effluent on the Use Area, the Discharger pumps
the effluent from the storage pond directly into the irrigation system.
The Facility has a laboratory and a standby generator capable of operating the entire
Facility and the raw wastewater lift station immediately upstream of the Facility for
24 hours. The Discharger also has standby equipment for immediate replacement in
case of emergency.
Sludge/biosolids produced from the secondary clarifier is dried in six concrete lined
biosolids drying beds. Dried sludge/biosolids is disposed of off-site through McCarthy
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 66]
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R5-2008-0121
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0081213
Farms. Screenings are disposed of off-site in the Tehachapi Class III Landfill which is
regulated by Lahontan Regional Board Order No. 01-035. The drainage from the
biosolids drying beds is fed to the headworks structure and back through the treatment
process.
The Discharger owns the land in the Use Area, which is a horseshoe-shaped, 70 acre,
nine-hole golf course surrounded by private residences that are adjacent to the
sprinkler-irrigated areas. Bear Valley Springs Association manages the Use Area. The
Use Area is only irrigated with effluent at night when the golf course is closed.
Wastewater is disc

===PLANNED CHANGES===

