[Page 79]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of City of Clovis, which
serves a population of approximately 30,000 people currently and approximately 73,700
people in the future. The design annual average flow capacity of the Facility is 2.8 million
gallons per day (mgd) for Phase I and 5.6 mgd for Phase II.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Operations at the Facility commenced in July 2009. The Facility treats domestic
wastewater generated by three main service areas within the City of Clovis – the
Northwest, Northeast, and Southwest service areas. Raw wastewater from the Fowler
wastewater trunk line is diverted at Pump Station B and pumped to Pump Station E.
Additional wastewater is gravity fed to Pump Station E which pumps the combined flow
to the Facility.
The treatment system at the Facility consists of primary, secondary, and tertiary units.
Primary treatment consists of 2mm drum screens with a bypass channel/bar with
screens and a vortex grit removal mechanism. Wastewater then flows into two main
bioreactor trains used for secondary treatment. Each bioreactor trains consist of two
anoxic zones followed by one aerobic zone with two aeration grids. Flow from the
aerobic zone is pumped to the membrane filtration units which provide tertiary
treatment. The tertiary-treated effluent is then disinfected by ultraviolet light. Currently,
disinfected tertiary-treated recycled water is stored in one 3.08 million gallon bolted-
steel tank. A second 3.08 million gallon bolted-steel tank will be added with the
completion of Phase II. The tertiary-treated effluent is either used as recycled water for
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 80]
CITY OF CLOVIS ORDER R5-2014-0005
CLOVIS SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER REUSE FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0085235
landscape irrigation or discharged to one of two surface water locations (Fancher Creek
or the Diversion Channel).
Solids pass through the patented CannibalTM Solids Reduction Process. The patented
CannibalTM Solids Reduction Process reduces the solids in the secondary activated
sludge treatment by holding return activated sludge (RAS) in the interchange tanks for
approximately 10 days under specific environmental conditions that work to break down
the solids. After the interchange tanks, the reduced solids are purged into the digester
which holds the solids for 10 to 15 days. After detainment in the digester the solids are
sent to dewatering equipment. During the previous permit term a centrifuge was
installed to provide additional biosolids dewatering. The dewatered biosolids are hauled
offsite to a Class B Solids Disposal Facility, composting facility, or the Clovis Municipal
Solid Waste Landfill.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T13S, R22E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Fancher
Creek, a water of the United States at a point latitude 36° 45’ 39” N and longitude
119° 37’ 40.4” W. Treated municipal wastewater is also discharged at Discharge
Point

===PLANNED CHANGES===

