[Page 1]
6. The wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) for the proposed Development will be
constructed in phases to allow for expansion as the Development grows. The WWTF will
provide tertiary treatment with ultraviolet (UV) disinfection to produce Title 22 recycled
water for unrestricted reuse. These WDRs will regulate the WWTF for the first three
phases identified as Phase A, Phase B, and Phase 1. Based on projections, at the
completion of Phase I the WWTF will meet wastewater treatment demands for the
Development till 2022, which will be comprised of approximately 1,800 residential units,
and some commercial and public facilities.
7. Source water for the Development will be primarily surface water from the San Joaquin
River, which will be treated at a regional water treatment facility owned and operated by
the Company. The character of the potable water supply is summarized below.
TABLE 1. Source Water
Parameter/Constituent Units Result
pH s.

[Page 1]
9. According to the RWD, the WWTF will include an influent pump station and head works,
flow equalization, fine screening, advanced biological treatment, an anoxic zone to
provide for nitrogen reduction, UV disinfection, solids handling, and recycled water
storage, as shown on Attachment B and made a part of this Order by reference.
10. For the first two phases, Phase A and Phase B, the WWTF will consist of membrane
bioreactor (MBR) package plants with average maximum dry weather design flows of
0.25 million gallons per day (mgd) and 0.5 mgd, respectively. When flows approach the
capacity for Phase B, construction will begin on Phase I, which will consist of a permanent
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016-0057 -3-
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY
Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) system with an anoxic tank, swing air tank, aerobic tank,
post-anoxic tank, and a 0.4 million gallon flow equalization tank.
11. Because this will be a new WWTF, there is no existing effluent data available. The
anticipated effluent quality, presented below, is based on the proposed treatment process
and data from similar existing WWTFs.
TABLE 2. Effluent Quality
Parameter/Constituent Units Result
pH pH units 6.5 – 8.5
Electrical Conductivity (EC) umhos/cm < 600
Ammonia as nitrogen mg/L <1
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/L < 10
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) mg/L < 10
Chloride mg/L < 40
Sodium mg/L < 60
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L < 400
Total Nitrogen (TN) mg/L <10
12. Wasted sludge from the treatment process will be stored in sludge holding tank(s), and
hauled off-site for treatment and disposal at another WWTF in the area. During
construction of Phase 1, an integrated sludge storage tank will be included in the main
structure for the treatment system.
13. The WWTF will have reliability and redundancy features that will include: (a) standby
power, (b) redundant machinery and/or components to allow fo

[Page 2]
14. After treatment and disinfection, the effluent will be discharged to recycled water storage
ponds prior to reuse. The ponds will incorporate a 50 mil HDPE liner. For Phase A and
Phase B recycled water storage will be provided by one pond with a designed capacity of
1.56 million gallons. There will also be a second lined pond with a capacity of 0.84 million
gallons used for emergency storage of recycled water that does not meet Title 22
requirements (off-spec recycled water). After construction of the Phase 1 wastewater
treatment system, all off-spec recycled water will be returned to the headworks of the
WWTF for further treatment and the emergency storage pond will be used for storage of
recycled water bringing the total available storage capacity to 2.4 million gallons.
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016-0057 -4-
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY
15. The disinfected tertiary treated effluent will be used for irrigation of crops and landscaping
within the Development and on

===PLANNED CHANGES===

