[Page 66]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Brentwood and serves a population of
approximately 63,042. The Facility’s current design daily average flow capacity for tertiary treated
wastewater is 5.0 MGD, with plans to expand the capacity to 6.4 MGD (as discussed below in
Section II.E.).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is currently being upgraded for an expansion of the flow capacity. The treatment
system at the Facility consists of a headworks (screening and grit removal), anoxic basins
(two existing, three after completed expansion), two extended aeration activated sludge
basins, two denitrification basins, two secondary clarifiers, two banks of two single media
filters (total of four filters), chlorine disinfection, dechlorination, and a cascade aeration system
for discharge of tertiary treated effluent to Marsh Creek. Specific details of the upgrades are
included below in Section II.E.
Sludge is mixed with a polymer and dewatered using a belt filter press. Dried biosolids are
hauled off-site for disposal at the Vasco Road Landfill located in the City of Livermore. Once
the expansion upgrades are complete, the Discharger intends to implement heat drying as a
means of producing Class A biosolids, as well as provide diverse options for biosolids
disposal. Occasionally, the Discharger will dispose of biosolids at the Potrero Hill Landfill in
Suisun City; however, the Vasco Road Landfill is the primary disposal location. The Facility
produces approximately 942 dry metric tons of biosolids annually. As part of the Facility
expansion, a solids storage facility will be constructed to provide a storage volume sufficient
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 67]
CITY OF BRENTWOOD ORDER R5-2019-0029
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0082660
for 6 months at buildout conditions. Trans

[Page 69]
E. Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning to expand the Facility to increase the treatment capacity from an
average dry weather flow capacity of 5.0 MGD to an average dry weather flow capacity of 6.4
MGD to accommodate future increased wastewater inflows associated with development and
population growth identified in the Discharger’s General Plan. A design average dry weather
treatment capacity of 6.4 MGD will also support the continued production of CCR, division 4,
chapter 3 (Title 22) recycled water sufficient for landscape irrigation demands identified for the
Discharger’s Recycled Water Project and irrigation demands of future development areas
identified in the Discharger’s General Plan. The Discharger’s Recycled Water Project will
support an estimated total of 1,946 acre-feet per year of recycled water demand for
landscape irrigation uses identified by the Discharger.
The Discharger has identified the following process upgrades that are necessary to expand
the treatment capacity of the Facility and reduce concentrations of trihalomethanes in the
effluent.
1. Secondary Treatment Upgrades. The Discharger is planning to construct a new
rectangular staged basin with diffused air and retrofit the two existing oxidation ditches
into staged basins with diffused air. In addition, a third 110 foot diameter secondary
clarifier and return activated sludge (RAS) pump station will be constructed. The RAS
pump station will include two additional RAS pumps and two additional scum pumps.
2. Tertiary Treatment Upgrades. In order to accommodate buildout flows, provide
redundancy, and increase tertiary treatment capacity, the Discharger will add one filter
feed pump to the tertiary filtration facilities.
3. Disinfection Upgrades. In order to reduce the formation of trihalomethanes, the
Discharger plans to upgrade the chlorine disinfection facilities to utilize free chlorine with
a lower CT (the product of chlorine concentration and contact time). A report
documenting the study supporting the use of this approach was submitted to the State
Water Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW) on 9 June 2017. The Discharger
received conditional approval of the approach from DDW in a letter dated
2 November 2017.
4. Biosolids Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Upgrades. The Discharger intends to
implement heat drying as a means of producing Class A biosolids, as well as diversify
options for biosolids disposal. As part of the Facility expansion, a solids storage facility
will be constructed to provide a storage volume sufficient for 6 months at buildout
conditions. The upgraded biosolids disposal system will involve a dump truck being
loaded with dried product by a discharge conveyor from the dryer. The truck will then
transport the material to the storage building, where a front end loader will move the
dried product into storage. The storage building will be located immediately east of the
existing chlorine contact basins, which will minimize dust exposure to properties located
south of the Facility. The storage building floor will be constructed of concrete.
The Discharger plans to begin construction of the above Facility upgrades in June 2019 and
complete construction by May 2022. In addition to the above changes, the Discharger plans
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 70]
CITY OF BRENTWOOD ORDER R5-2019

===PLANNED CHANGES===

