[Page 1]
6. Description of Facility and Discharge
Discharge:
The discharge consists of treated sewage, kitchen and laundry wastes generated
by prison inmates and staff at the CCC and HDSP. There are no prison
industries that generate liquid waste streams that require pretreatment in order to
meet waste discharge requirements. The Discharger currently provides staffing
and services for approximately 8,800 inmates at the two prisons. The Facility
also chlorinates the wastewater with liquid chlorine solution prior to use for
irrigation. (For the purposes of this Order, the use of treated wastewater for crop
irrigation is synonymous with the terms "recycling," "reuse," and "reclamation" of
treated wastewater.) The chlorinated eft~uent is not sampled for coliform
concentrations and therefore the irrigation water is considered secondary
undisinfected recycled water as defined by California Code of Regulations, title
,
[Page 2]
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -3­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility .
Lassen County
22, section 60301.900, and is suitable for use on fodder crops. Pursuant to
section 60301.650 the wastewater is "oxidized wastewater" which means
wastewater in which the organic matter has been stabilized, is nonputrescible,
and contains dissolved oxygen.
Existing Facility:
The existing Facility will continue to be operated while upgrades are being
completed. The existing Facility was designed to treat wastes using mechanical
aeration followed by detention in oxidation ponds. Following treatment,
wastewater is stored in ponds prior to being chlorinated and discharged to fodder
crops via spray irrigation equipment. The treatment facilities are designed for an
average flow rate of 1.4 million gallons per day (MGD), a peak daily flow of 2.1
million gallons, and a peak hourly flow rate of 4.2 MGD.
Grit removal, grinding, and screening are accomplished in the Facility
headworks. The incoming waste is then pumped to parallel aeration ponds (two
ponds, 11.35 million gallons each, floating aerators), and sedimentation ponds
(two ponds, 5.4 million gallons each, nine feet deep). Following sedimentation,
the treated effluent is stored in five storage ponds that predate the existing
Facility (designated as storage ponds 1 through 5) and two storage ponds
constructed in 1995 (designated as storage ponds 6 and 7), with a combined
storage volume of 720 acre-feet. Wastewater is retained in storage ponds 1
through 7 over the winter months and used for fodder crop irrigation during the
growing season.
As described above, two aeration ponds, two aerated sedimentation ponds and
two additional storage ponds were built in association with the 1995 expansion.
The new treatment and storage ponds were constructed with a mixture of native
soils and bentonite and tested by the Discharger to determine soil permeability
factors. Test results at various locations in the ponds indicated that soils met a
permeability factor of 5.4X1 0-7 centimeters/second to limit estimated seepage of
wastewater from the new ponds into the ground water beneath the Facility to
ratesof loss no greater th~;m 500 gallons/acre/day. The older, earthen storage
ponds (nos. 1-5) originally established for CCC wastewater were retained without
modifications.
Proposed Facility:
Completion of system upgrades to increase the ability to treat and store more
wastewater at the Facility is proposed by December 31,2009, to comply with
Cease and Desist Order No. R6T-2005-0016. The proposed expansion will assist
the Discharger to achieve compliance with requirements by in

[Page 3]
Proposed major modificationsto the Facility include the following: improvements
to the headworks (new course and fine screens, presses to compact inert
screened material prior to disposal), new influent pumps and force main; use of
.60-mil high density polyethylene (HOPE) liners. The two existing, soil-lined
primary ponds will be converted to secondary oxidation ponds. A major part of
the upgrade includes lining the existing storage pond nos. 1 - 5, and the new
treatment and storage ponds with HOPE. New ponds to be constructed with
HOPE lining will include a primary/fermentation pond, two constructed wetland
cells (10 acres each), and three new storage ponds (nos. 8, 9, and 10) increasing
the storage capacity by 480 acre-feet.
7. Disposal Area
Treated wastewater from the storage ponds is chlorinated and disposed of by
recycling on adjacent State of California owned land used to produce alfalfa
fodder for non-dairy animals. Application is by spray irrigation. Rates vary with
season and crop needs, and disposal is proposed to be at agronomic rates for
the specific crop(s) grown. Based on an agronomic report produced by the
Discharger in 2007, agronomic rates of water and nitroge

===PLANNED CHANGES===

