[Page 18]
4.6.3 Treatment and disposal of Spalding Tract household wastewater in a
complex of treatment ponds could potentially lead to the infiltration
of wastewater to groundwaters, and subsequent contamination of
Eagle Lake. This would be a less than significant impact.
All treatment ponds, whether they be designed as evaporation ponds
under Alternative 1 or constructed wetlands and evaporation ponds under
Alternative 2, would be lined and protected from ultraviolet degradation by
[Page 19]
Attachment D -7-
a soil layer. Beneath the liner layer would exist a leak detection system
consisting of filter fabric, a layer of gravel, and a system of PVC piping.
The liner and leak detection system would operate similar to a leachate
protection system commonly used at sanitary landfills. In addition to the
leak detection system, ground water monitoring wells, including
upgradient and downgradient wells, will be installed for regular sampling
(quarterly sampling) and evaluation of shallow aquifer groundwater
quality. Should a leak be detected by the leak detection system or from
analytical results of groundwater monitoring, the ponds can be drained
and removed from service one at a time for repair.
Where the groundwater table rises coincident to lake level rise, the pond
liner system will prevent commingling of pond wastewater with
groundwater. This scenario is unlikely due to the elevation of the potential
treatment site locations. Therefore, the potential for wastewater infiltrating
to and contaminating groundwater would be less than significant.
Mitigation Measures
4.6.3 No mitigation is required.
Water Board Analysis and Findings for section 4.6.3
The Water Board does not concur that “the infiltration of wastewater to
groundwaters, and subsequent contamination of Eagle Lake” would be a less
than significant impact, as this would violate applicable waste discharge
prohibitions. As noted above, the Project description analyzed in the Final EIR
included a leak detection system consisting of drainage sand and perforated
piping underneath the liner to detect leakage. This alternative was evaluated in
the report of waste discharge and determined to be infeasible by the Discharger
based on technical and cost considerations. The leak detection system proposed
in the report of waste discharge instead has two primary means to detect pond
leakage: (1) daily water balance measurements and calculations (over an entire
month) will be used to determine if there is any unexplained water loss and (2)
three ground water monitoring wells installed around the Facility will be used to
monitor changes in ground water quality that may be attributable to leakage from
an evaporation pond.
The water balance measurements described above, and in the report of waste
discharge, are deemed insufficiently sensitive and infeasible to detect other than
grossly excessive leakage that would violate applicable waste discharge
prohibitions. However, the proposed pond liner technology is capable of meeting
the applicable requirements and prohibitions, essentially limiting leakage rates to
very low rates of molecular diffusion, provided the liners are properly constructed
and protected from damage by external elements such as animals, vandals,
wind, or slope failure that could puncture the liner or damage seam seals
between liner panels during and following con

===PLANNED CHANGES===

