[Page 1]
4. Background and Statement of Basis for Permit Modifications
The Discharger has had a history of violations for total coliform bacteria
(bacteria), residual chlorine and total suspended solids (TSS) being discharged
under the Board Order No. R6T-2008-0022. The Facility’s chlorine disinfection
process has not consistently met the bacteria and residual chlorine effluent limits.
The bacteria effluent limits must be met at the end of the disinfection process, the
chlorine contact chamber. Limitations for bacteria and TSS are considered
technology-based effluent limitations (TBELs) under NPDES permitting
requirements.
The chlorine contact chamber has been considered by the Discharger to be part
of the problem in meeting the bacteria and residual chlorine limits. The chlorine
contact chamber, which is a 48-inch-diameter pipe approximately two hundred
yards in length, is supposed to provide time for the chlorine to destroy the
bacteria in the treated wastewater. However, the chlorine contact chamber does
not provide adequate contact and mixing of the chlorine to prevent bacteria
regrowth. Additionally, there are several surface openings in the contact
chamber that could allow for deposition of new bacteria from the ambient
environment. To prevent bacteria growth, the chlorine dosing has been very high
to get the proper disinfection. The high dosing has resulted in residual chlorine
above the effluent limits after passing through holding ponds and wetlands that
are intended to provide dechlorination and wastewater retention.
To resolve the disinfection process problems, the Discharger installed the UV
disinfection system to replace the chlorine disinfection process. A traveling
bridge filter was also installed to further lower the turbidity and increase the light
transmittance to improve UV disinfection effectiveness and will also reduce TSS
in the treated wastewater prior to being disinfected. Order No. R6T-2008-0022
requires the TSS effluent limits to be met at the final discharge location, after
wetland treatment. The wetlands are a unit process designed to polish the final
disinfected effluent and minimize the discharge of chlorine. However, the
wetland is increasing pH and adding TSS after it has been removed by the
treatment system.
[Page 2]
SUSANVILLE SANITARY DISTRICT -3- ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0022-A01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLAN NPDES NO. CA0102695
The Discharger proposes to discharge from the UV disinfection system into the
chlorine contact chamber to convey the treated effluent to the wetland. The
chlorine disinfection system will be maintained as a backup system while
thorough testing is conducted and in case there is an emergency or problem with
the UV disinfection system. Also, chlorine will still need to be used when the
traveling bridge filter is cleaned periodically with chlorine.
The current compliance point for bacteria is at the end of the chlorine contact
chamber. The Discharger is concerned the chlorine contact chamber conditions
could allow for bacteria that are not associated with the wastewater source to be
deposited and grow. Thus, the current compliance point for bacteria may not
reliably indicate the effectiveness of the UV disinfection system.
The pH compliance point is currently after the wetland, and the pH effluent value
is associated with the water quality objective of the receiving water and is not a
technology based effluent limit, so the compliance point will not be moved.
However, pH has rarely exceeded the receiving water objective, so the frequency
of the required sampling will be reduced to monthly.
The current compliance point for TSS is after the polishing wetland. The
wetland’s primary purpose is to reduce the residual chlorine, but testing has
shown the wetland is adding TSS. The TSS is lowest after the UV disinfection
system. Sampling conducted by Water Board staff on June 28, 2012 indicated
the TSS was not detected coming out of the UV disinfection system and was 99
mg/L coming out of the wetlands. The TSS effluent limit is based on the Federal
EPA technology standards for secondary treated wastewater. The Facility
removes more than 85% of the TSS and meets the effluent limit after the UV
disinfection system. The compliance point is being moved to after the TSS
treatment process to show the EPA technology standard will be met for TSS.
Therefore, the locations for compliance with effluent limitations are being
changed in this Order amendment, as follows. Sampling requirements and
locations for chlorine residual and trihalomethanes (which are a by-product of
chlorine disinfection) are being changed and reduced accordingly. Wetlands for
effluent polishing will be retained, but will not be monitored for compliance with
TSS effluent limitations.
5. California Environmental Quality Act
This action to amend an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code Section 21000, et
seq.) in accordance with section 13389 of the California Water Code.
[Page 3]
SUSANVILLE SANI

[Page 4]
3. Interim Effluent Limitations – Not Applicable Effluent Limitation within
treatment system when chlorine is in use – Location EFF-002-CL
If the chlorine disinfection system is in use, the compliance point for total
coliform will be EFF-002-CL for total coliform limitations described in item
IV.A.2., above. The total coliform compliance point will be EFF-002 when the
UV disinfection system is in use.
4) Change to Attachment B, page B-1 of Order No. R6T-2008-0022: the new page
will read as identified in Attachment B to this Order that now identifies the revised
Discharge Point EFF-002 from the UV disinfection system, as described in 6),
below.
5) Change to Attachment C2, page C-2 of Order No. R6T-2008-0022: the new page
will read as identified in Attachment C2 to this Order that now identifies the
revised Discharge Point EFF-002 from the UV disinfection system, renames the
former Discharge Point EFF-002 as Discharge Point EFF-002-CL for when the
chlorine system is in use, and identifies discharge point EFF-001 (with no
change).
[Page 5]
SUSANVILLE SANITARY DISTRICT -6- ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0022-A01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLAN NPDES NO. CA0102695
6) Changes to Table E-1, page E-5, of Order No. R6T-2008-0022 containing written
descriptions of the discharge points: the following change to Table E-1 alters the
monitoring location EFF-002, which is also the location for sampling for
compliance with total coliform requirements, and renames EFF-002 to EFF-002-
CL for monitoring of total coliform whenever the chlorine disinfection system is
used (to allow adequate contact time for disinfection).
Table E-1. Monitoring Station Locations
Discharge Monitoring
Point Location Monitoring Location Description
Name Name
-- Wastewater influent collected prior to the fine screen in the
INF-001
headwork’s of the facility
Effluent wastewater from the treatment facility; at final discharge
001 EFF-001 from the wetlands to the irrigation channel that is tributary to
Jensen Slough (formerly Monitoring Location 03).
Wastewater from within the treatment facility, at the point of
release from the ultraviolet disinfection system prior to the
-- chlorine contact chamber. DE chlorination facility (formerly
EFF-002
Monitoring Location 03A). (This location will be the point of
compliance for total coliform only if the UV system is in use for
disinfection.)
Wastewater from within the treatment facility, at the point of
release from the de-chlorination facility (formerly Monitoring
EFF-002-CL
-- Location EFF-002). (This location will be the point of compliance
for total coliform only if the chlorine system is in use for
disinfection.)
Receiving water (Jensen Slough) monitoring location just
-- RSW-001
upstream from where the Jensen Slough crosses Skyline Drive.
Receiving water monitoring location approximately 50 feet
-- RSW-002 downstream from the confluence of the irrigation channel and the
Jensen Slough.
7) Changes to Table E-3 of Order No. R6T-2008-0022: the changes will eliminate
the sampling for total and fecal colifor

===PLANNED CHANGES===

