[Page 3]
II. Facility Description
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The existing Facility provides for secondary wastewater treatment that consists of:
screening, grit removal, extended aeration (oxidation ditches), activated sludge
processing, secondary clarification, disinfection (chlorine), de-chlorination processes (box
and open ponds) and a wetland complex where the treated effluent resides prior to
discharge via outfall EFF-001.
The influent flows into the headworks, which consist of fine screening and a grit chamber.
Then the wastewater flows to a distribution box that can convey the wastewater to the
emergency storage ponds (see below) or to the two oxidation ditches for treatment. The
two oxidation ditches-are designed to be able to be run in parallel and may be operated in
series. The wastewater is passed through a secondary clarifier and a chlorine
disinfection process. From the disinfection process, the wastewater may be discharged
into the emergency storage ponds or continue in an underground pipe (that acts as a
chlorine contact chamber) and discharge into a dechlorination box and an open pond to
remove the chlorine. From the open pond the treated effluent passes through a polishing
wetland prior to being discharged into an unlined channel (EFF-001). The effluent is used
to irrigate rangelands and finally discharges into Jensen Slough.
There are two emergency storage ponds, NO.1 and NO.2. The emergency storage
ponds are unlined, cover approximately 8.2 acres, and are some four feet deep providing
an estimated 10.7 million gallons of storage if needed. The ponds have the ability to .
receive e'ff1uent from the headworks and/or from the disinfection process. The raw or
partially treated wastewater flows by gravity to a lift station that pumps the wastewater
back into the headworks screening process. These ponds are used during emergencies,
high flow, power outages, maintenance and system failures.
Sludge handling andtreatmentsystems at the Facility include an aerobic d'igester, sludge
storage tank and a centrifuge to dewater the sludge. Chemical analyses of the sludge
indicate that concentrations of toxic constituents are below hazardous waste limits
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 4]
----------- ._ .. _._------~-
specified in Title 26 of the California Code ofRegulations. Sludge is dewatered by
centrifuge and relinquished to others for application to agricultural lands in Lassen
County. Dewatered sludge is also transported to a landfill in Nevada.
The Facility is currently capable of treating, and disposing an annual average flow of 2.0
MGD of municipal wastewater with current flows averaging approximately 1.12 MGD.
There is a maximum average annual flow of 1.486 MGD, a peak wet weather design flow
of 3.1 MGD, and a maximum hydraulic capacity of 4.0 MGD.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Chlorinated wastewater effluent isdechlorinated by aeration in a dechlorination box and
finishes dechlorination in open storage ponds. Dechlorinated effluent flows through a
constructed polishing wetland prior to being discharged to a constructed discharge
channel (irrigation channel) traversing adjacent agricultural lands.
The water from this irrigation channel is used by others (not the Discharger) for irrigation
(during the growing season), and livestock watering. Unused water in the irrigation
channel and applied tailwater flows into the Jensen Slough and is used on other·
agricultural lands. The Jensen Slough receives water from a diversion on the Susan
River, and is a tributary to the Susan River. The wastewater effluent, water from the
irrigation channel and slough system, and agricultural return flows eventually discharge
into the Susan River as shown on Attachment B (Effluent Discharge Location Map), which
is made part of this Order.
The discharge point for the effluent to the constructed irrigation channel is Discharge
point EFF-001 and is located at latitude 400 24' 50" N and longitude 1200 37' 0" W.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
1. Flow Limitations
The average rate of effluent flow from the facility in anyone-month period shall not
be more than 2.0 MGD.
2. Effluent Limitations
Effluent limitations contained in the existing Order for discharges from Discharge
Point EFF-001 and representative monitoring data from the term of the previous
Order are as follows:
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 5]
------------------,---_.... _---­ ---
.
Ta bl e F 2, HI'stor , l c Effl uent LI' ml' tarI ons an d Mo m' tor'm g Da ta
Monitoring Data (From December
Effluent Limitation 2000-To January 2007)
Parameter Units . Highest Highest Highest
Average Average Maximum Average Average Dally
Monthly Weekly Daily Monthly Weekly Discharge
Discharge Discharge
Biological
Oxygen mg/L 30 45 _ --­ 21 32 32
Demand
Suspended
Solids mg/L 30 45 --­ 37 48 48
pH Standard --­ --­ 6.5-8.5 7 - 8.361
Units
Removal
Efficiency % 85 --­ --­ 922 --­ --­
for BOD
,
Removal
Efficiency % 85 --­ --­ 842 -­ --­
forTSS
Total
MPN 23 23 240 --­ --­ --­
Coliform
1
ThiS represents the range of reported pH values In the effluent. .­
2 This value represents the lowest reported removal efficiency for BOD and TSS. The limitation for removal efficiency for TSS
was violated once (June 2001), at 84%.
0, Compliance Summary
In April 2004, Lahontan Water Board Staff conducted a Facility compliance inspection
and identified that fecal coliform in effluent taken at discharge from the wetland (the
then-designated point of compliance) exceeded the effluent limit. It was noted that
coliform levels immediately after chlorination meet the limit" but it was considered that
the wildlife activity in the open pond and wetland reintroduce coliform, as the wildlife
activity is substantial.
Beginning in March 2004, the Discharger began submitting effluent fecal coliform data
that was collected at the chlorine contact chamber in addition to what was collected
from the discharge point from the wetland to the irrigation channel. The samples
collected from the chlorine contact chamber's discharge were consistently in
compliance with the Discharger's permit limits, while the majority of the samples
collected from the discharge from the wetland were not in compliance. This indicates
that the wildlife in the wetland reintroduce coliform into the wastewater. As a result, the
point of compliance for fecal coliform will be moved from EFF-001 to EFF-002.
In February 2005, turbidity exceeded the existing effluent limit. The water level was
increased in the wetland to reduce turbidity. The Discharger provided turbidity data that
showed a decrease in turbidity after corrective action was taken.
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 6]
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger will be discharging wastewater into emergency storage ponds, including
discharging vacuum truck waste collected from spills and collection system
maintenance, and discharges from the wastewater treatment system for routine
. maintenance activities within the treatment plant
During the upcoming permit term, the Discharger is considering changing disinfection
systems, from operating a liquid chlorine system to an ultraviolet (UV) system.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and
implementing regulations adopted by the U