[Page 1]
5. Reason for Action
Board Order No. R6V-2015-0069 included a time schedule to upgrade the Facility to
either: a) re-construct the evaporation/oxidation ponds meeting the requirements of
California Code of Regulations (CCR), title 27 requirements or b) propose an
alternative project that would qualify for an exemption to CCR, title 27, by producing an
effluent quality that is consistent with applicable water quality objectives. The Facility
has been in violation of waste discharge requirements (WDRs) because leaking
evaporation/oxidation ponds have caused pollution of underlying groundwater with total
dissolved solids (TDS) and nitrate. The time schedule was necessary to return the
District to compliance because the underlying groundwater contains elevated
concentrations of TDS and nitrate due to District discharges. The time schedule is
extended by seven months in this WDR to allow for completion of construction, testing,
and start-up of the upgraded wastewater treatment plant. The Water Board is revising
WDRs and the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) for the following reasons.
a. This Board Order reflects an extended time schedule by seven months to complete
Facility upgrades. The upgrades include planned construction of treatment units to
provide full secondary treated denitrified effluent, a new lined septage waste
receiving pond, a new lined emergency overflow pond, percolation ponds for
effluent disposal, and closure/inactivation of the existing evaporation/oxidation
ponds.
b. Establish secondary wastewater treatment effluent limitations, a new total nitrogen
effluent limitation, and incorporate other requirements for a 1.27 million gallons per
day (MGD) upgraded Facility.
c. Establish justification that proposed Facility upgrades qualify the discharge for an
exemption to CCR, title 27, section 20090.
d. Update the Facility’s MRP, including requirements and time schedules requiring
installation of additional groundwater monitoring wells to evaluate the nature and
extent of groundwater pollution caused by the Facility and compliance with this
Board Order.

[Page 2]
Kern County
e. Allow continued use of the existing evaporation/oxidation pond system until Facility
upgrades are completed, tested, and successfully placed online.
f. Continue the requirement that all reports and data must be uploaded to the State
Water Quality Control Board’s (State Water Board’s) GeoTracker database.
g. Include language consistent with current state law, requirements, and policies.
6. Board Order History
a. The Water Board initially established WDRs for

[Page 3]
8. Facility Description
Upon completion of plant upgrades, the Facility will be comprised of three components:
(1) collection system and head works, (2) secondary treatment system and (3)
percolation ponds. The Facility was originally a series of evaporation/oxidation ponds
constructed with compacted native soil bottoms. As the population grew, additional
ponds were added until today there are 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds, although they
are numbered 1 through 15 and 17. Currently, all influent is first discharged into one of
the ponds which serves as a treatment pond with aerators before going to the
remaining evaporation/oxidation ponds.
In 2007, the Discharger received a grant from the State Water Board to construct a
0.50 MGD tertiary wastewater treatment plant to produce recycled water that operated
from 2011 to 2015, after which the plant was placed in reserve status because the
Discharger had no recycled water customers, and therefore did not complete an
Engineering Report nor obtained water recycling requirements to produ

[Page 3]
8. Facility Description
Upon completion of plant upgrades, the Facility will be comprised of three components:
(1) collection system and head works, (2) secondary treatment system and (3)
percolation ponds. The Facility was originally a series of evaporation/oxidation ponds
constructed with compacted native soil bottoms. As the population grew, additional
ponds were added until today there are 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds, although they
are numbered 1 through 15 and 17. Currently, all influent is first discharged into one of
the ponds which serves as a treatment pond with aerators before going to the
remaining evaporation/oxidation ponds.
In 2007, the Discharger received a grant from the State Water Board to construct a
0.50 MGD tertiary wastewater treatment plant to produce recycled water that operated
from 2011 to 2015, after which the plant was placed in reserve status because the
Discharger had no recycled water customers, and therefore did not complete an
Engineering Report nor obtained water recycling requirements to produce and deliver
recycled water. The Discharger proceeded to shut down the tertiary treatment plant and
diverted all wastewater to the evaporation/oxidation ponds.
As a result of findings and time schedules contained in Board Order No.
R6V-2015-0069 to address pond leakage, the Discharger proposes to re-activate the
secondary treatment train of the 0.50 MGD plant, not operate the tertiary components,
and construct a larger, similar secondary treatment plant. Thus, instead of producing
tertiary treated recycled water, the Facility will produce secondary, denitrified effluent
and convert the two newest oxidation/evaporation Ponds 15 and 17, located south of
[Page 4]
Rosamond CSD - 5 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
the treatment facility, into a series of percolation ponds for effluent disposal, as shown
on Attachment B. The upgraded Facility will be comprised of the following components
and its treatment flow process illustrated in Attachment C.
a. Collection System and Head Works – To achieve optimal treatment quality, the
plant has a design flow rate of 1.27 MGD and it is estimated that the average daily
wastewater flow will be 1.18 MGD. The headworks consists of the influent pump
station, bar screen, and a grit removal/classification system. The bar screen is
operated as a traveling chain-and-link system that removes large solids. Screenings
are removed and disposed offsite periodically. Influent is pumped through a vortex
grit chamber at grade. Grit slurry collected in the vortex grit chamber is pumped to a
vortex grit separator and classifier for dewatering.
b. Septage Receiving Station and Holding Pond – Prior to Facility upgrades, septage
was delivered to evaporation/oxidation Pond 11. As part of the upgrade process, the
southwest side of existing Pond 11 will be converted into a septage receiving
station. Septage from the receiving station is passed through a coarse screen to
remove large solids before proceeding to an 80-mil high density polyethylene
(HDPE) lined septage holding pond. The aerated and mixed septage holding pond
will contain approximately 90,000 gallons of septage waste and have a top surface
area of 4,950 square feet at freeboard. Flows from the septage holding pond will
discharge to the headworks at a controlled rate where they will mix with incoming
influent and continue with the treatment process.
c. Secondary Treatment Plant –

[Page 5]
Kern County
existing beds. The existing beds are lined with 60-mil HDPE and the new beds will
be lined with 80-mil HDPE. Dried sludge (biosolids) are hauled offsite for
disposal/reuse at an authorized reuse or disposal site. Disposal of solids at the
treatment/disposal site is not authorized.
f. Percolation Pond System – Denitrified, undisinfected secondary effluent will be sent
to Ponds 15 and 17, which will be modified into three percolation ponds each with a
depth of seven feet. Provisions have been made to add a potential fourth
percolation pond, if needed. The three percolation ponds will be operated on a
3-month rotation, one in service and two out of service. After drying, the pond
bottoms will be scarified to improve percolation rates.
g. Recycled Water Treatment – The facility will not produce recycled water or have
recycled water treatment requirements.
h. Effluent Quality - The upgraded plant will produce denitrified, undisinfected,
secondary effluent that will be discharged to three new percolation ponds. The
proposed effluent quality after the plant is upgraded is described in the table below.
Proposed Treatment Plant Effluent Quality
Constituent Concentration
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) (5-day at 20°C) 20 mg/L
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 16 mg/L
Total Inorganic Nitrogen (TIN)1 < 10 mg/L
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) 480 mg/L
1Total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) includes ammonia plus nitrate and nitrite.
9. Authorized Disposal Sites
This Board Order authorizes the discharge of primary effluent to the existing
evaporation/oxidation ponds until the time schedule specified in this Board Order
requires discharge of denitrified, undisinfected secondary treated effluent to three
percolation ponds that were part of Ponds 15 and 17 prior to rehabilitation/construction
of the percolation ponds.
10. Recycled Water Exception
As stated in CCR, title 22, section 60303, recycled water requirements do not apply to
the use of recycled water onsite at a water recycling plant, or wastewater treatment
plant, provided access by the public to the area of onsite recycled water use is
restricted.
Discharge to unauthorized locations are prohibited by this Board Order.
11. Recycled Water
Recycled wate

[Page 6]
16. Site Geology
The Antelope Valley is situated within the northwest portion of the larger Mojave Desert
geomorphic province. This province is a wedge-shaped tectonic block bounded to the
southwest by the San Andreas Fault Zone and on the northwest by the Garlock Fault
Zone. The San Andreas and Garlock Fault Zones are approximately 20 miles
southwest and 22 miles northwest of the Facility, respectively. There are no known
active (Holocene-age) faults beneath the Facility or within a 5-mile radius of the Facility.
The closest fault is Willow Springs fault located approximately 8.5 miles to the
northwest of the Facility.
The geologic units beneath the Facility consist of the following, from oldest to youngest.
a. Pre-Tertiary plutonic igneous and metamorphic rocks together form the
crystalline basement rock beneath the site at depths ranging up to 3,000 feet
below ground surface (bgs). They are largely granitic intrusions typical of the
Sierra Nevada Batholith of late Jurassic or Cretaceous age and range in
[Page 7]
Rosamond CSD - 8 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
composition from hornblende diorite to granite.
b. The Tertiary Tropico Group overlies the basement rock and consists of interbeds
of shales, limestones, and coarse fluvial sedimentary rocks with basalts and
pyroclastic deposits. The Tropico Group has a maximum exposed thickness of
2,800-feet in the vicinity of the site.
c. Overlying the Tropic Group is Quaternary-age older and recent alluvium
composed of unconsolidated and poorly sorted sands, silts, clays, and gravels.
Based on borehole log data collected from the Facility, the alluvial sediments are
in excess of 90-feet thick beneath the site. The wastewater ponds are
constructed overtop the recent alluvium.
17. Site Hydrogeology and Groundwater Quality
The Facility overlies the Antelope Valley Groundwater Basin. Groundwater beneath
the Facility occurs in the alluvium at an average depth of approximately 60 to 80 feet
bgs. The depth to groundwater beneath the site has generally decreased since
monitoring began in 1988 and flows in an easterly direction tow

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Proposed upgrades to the treatment plant will provide
secondary treatment that feeds influent from the headworks into two Biolac aeration
basins and two secondary clarifiers. Biolac is a propriety technology using a lined
basin, or pond, with a series of suspended aerators for extended aeration, activated
sludge treatment. Denitrification is achieved by creating a series of oxic and anoxic
zones within the basin. The Discharger is re-adjusting the flow capacity of the
existing Biolac basin to treat 0.35 MGD and constructing a new Biolac basin to treat
0.92 MGD for a combined total design flow of 1.27 MGD. The existing secondary
clarifier has a 45-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet while the new secondary
clarifier will have a 65-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet.
d. Evaporation/Oxidation Ponds – The existing 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds will be
used until upgrades are completed, tested, and successfully placed online. Some of
these ponds will be repurposed to serve as percolation ponds, septage receiving
pond, and emergency overflow pond. The remaining unused ponds will then be
abandoned. After sludge in these lagoons is sufficiently dry, all remaining sludge in
the lagoon bottoms will be removed and hauled offsite for proper disposal as
authorized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA).
e. Solids Handling – Waste sludge will be disposed into six new lined drying beds and
five of the six existing lined drying beds. One of the existing six beds will need to be
removed to make room for a new secondary clarifier. The six new beds will be
slightly larger to make up for the area lost by removing one of the existing beds.
Overall, the volume of the total beds will be double the volume of the current six
[Page 5]
Rosamond CSD - 6 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
existing beds. The existing beds are lined with 60-mil HDPE and the new be