[Page 1]
3. Locations
a. Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant and Agricultural Site
.The Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant and the Agricultural Site are
located approximately 2 miles northeast of central Palmdale as shown in
Attachment A, which is made part of this Order. The Secondary Treatment
Reclamation Plant consists of primary and secondary treatment facilities. The
primary treatment facility are located at the 30th Street East site as shown on
Attachment B, which is made part of this order. Secondary treatment is
provided by oxidation ponds located at both the 30th and 40th Street East sites.
The Agricultural Site is located east and north of the 40th Street East site as
shown on Attachment C, which is made a part of this Order.
b. Storage Reservoir Site
The Storage Reservoir Site is located approximately 10 miles northeast of the
Reclamation Plant and is adjacent to the intersection of 120 Street East and
Avenue L as shown on Atta

[Page 3]
7. Facility
a. Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant - The Secondary Treatment
Reclamation Plant provides primary and secondary treatment (aerated oxidation
ponds) for up to 15 million gallons per day (MGD) of waste water. The
Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant currently treats approximately 10 MGD
and serves approximately 140,000 people. Secondary waste water treatment is
provided by primary sedimentation tanks, anaerobic digesters, and unlined
oxidation ponds. Additional treatment is provided by the oxidation pond
aeration system and disinfection facilities (chlorination) as shown in the
Facilities Process Schematic included as Attachment D, which is made a part of
this Order. The existing oxidation ponds will continue to operate during start-up
and testing of the Tertiary Treatment Reclamation Plant.
b. Agricultural Site (formerly Effluent Management Site) - Secondary-level treated,
disinfected effluent is currently reused at the Agricultural Site. The Agricultural
Site consists of approximately 2,680 acres used for irrigated agriculture in
Township 6 North, Range 11 West, San Bemardino Baseline and Meridian:
sections 10 and 15 and portions of sections 9, 11, 14, and 16 as shown on
Attachment C.
c. Storage Reservoir Site - Two storage reservoirs (Reservoirs Nos. 1 and 2) have
been completed and are in use at the Storage Reservoir Site. The two
reservoirs have a total storag

[Page 4]
9. California Code of Regulations, Title 27 Reguirements
California Water Code section 13172 directs the State Water Resources Control
Board (State Water Board) to write regulations for waste disposal sites to protect
water quality "except for sewage treatment plants..." Those regulations are now
incorporated in the California Code of Regulations title 27 for waste disposal sites
and surface impoundments. The Reclamation Plant has primary ponds for the
treatment of the wastewater. These treatment ponds are exempt from title 27
under section 20090(a), and regulation of the treatment ponds under California
Code of Regulations title 23 is appropriate.
The Reservoir Storage and Agricultural sites are not part of the treatment process,
but are exempt under title 27 section 20090(h), which applies to. recycling from
waste. Additionally, the Storage Reservoir and Agricultural sites meet the
exception requirements for waste water as contained in section 20090(b), that is:
• This Order issues waste discharge requirements for the sites;
• Discharges to these sites are in compliance with the applicable water quality
control plan; an

===PLANNED CHANGES===

