[Page 6]
13. Site Hydrology
The City’s IWTP facility and most recycled water re-use areas at SCLA are located
on the bluffs along the west side of the Mojave River. The SCLA site is generally flat
with drainage to the east, concentrated into arroyos that drain eastward to the Mojave
River. The Mojave River is located east of SCLA and flows to the north. Between
the bluff and the river is a bench where percolation pond No. 14 is located.
14. Site Geology
The percolation pond No. 14 site is comprised of sedimentary deposits;
predominately sandy clay, sand, and gravel7.
6 State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) Water Quality (WQ) Order No. 2012-0001 “IN THE MATTER OF OWN MOTION
REVIEW OF CITY OF LODI WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS AND MASTER RECLAMATION PERMIT (ORDER NO. R5-
2007-0113 [NPDES NO. CA0079243]) ISSUED BY THE CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD,
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION - S

[Page 7]
15. Site Hydrogeology
There are three aquifers in the vicinity of the Facility as follows:
a. Beneath the IWTP, and generally beneath SCLA, is an upper alluvial unit of well-to
poorly-graded sands containing the Upper Aquifer. The Upper Aquifer is
encountered at about 80 feet below ground surface (bgs) and is about 80 feet thick.
The Upper Aquifer groundwater flow direction is to the east. The upper aquifer is not
present beneath percolation pond No. 14, which is at a lower elevation.
b. An aquitard comprised of old lakebed lacustrine deposits with highly plastic clay
approximately 25 feet thick occurs beneath the Upper Aquifer. The Upper Aquifer is
perched on this unit. The aquitard “pinches out” east of the SCLA site near the bluffs
allowing water in the upper Aquifer to percolate to the Lower or Regional Aquifer.
c. A lower alluvial unit lies beneath the aquitard and consists of a heterogeneous
mixture of interbedded sands, gravel, silt and clay. The upper 50 feet of this unit is
unsaturated. The Lower, or Regional Aquifer, is located approximately 200 - 250
feet bgs and extends to about 700 feet bgs.
d. Along the Mojave River, and in connection with the Regional Aquifer is the Mojave
River Floodplain Aquifer. The Floodplain Aquifer is the principal production aquifer
along the Mojave River and is located beneath percolation pond No. 14.
Groundwater beneath percolation pond No. 14 is located at a depth of about
33 ft. bgs.
e. Groundwater flow from the percolation pond Nos. 7 through14 flows radially outward,
away from the ponds into the Regional Aquifer and the Floodplain Aquifer.
The primary potential impact to receiving groundwater resulting from the discharge will
be in the Regional and Floodplain Aquifers beneath pond No. 14. Existing discharges
from VVWRA into adjacent pond No.’s 7 to 13 percolate and will co-mingle with
discharges from pond No. 14.
16. Background Water Quality
The discharge of VVWRA effluent into percolation pond Nos. 7 through 13 began in
about 2000 causing a hydraulic mound to form beneath the ponds, with groundwater
flow radially outward from the pond area. Pond No. 14 has not been used and is
dedicated to City flow from the IWTP. The City’s discharge to pond No. 14 will be a
small fraction of the VVWRA discharge to its adjacent percolation ponds.
Data from former George Air Force Base-owned wells (NZ-02, NZ-74, NZ-86) were used
to establish naturally occurring background concentrations in the Floodplain Aquifer for
nitrate and total dissolved solids (TDS). Samples from these wells were obtained before
the VVWRA south percolation pond No's. 7 through 13 were constructed. At that time,
[Page 8]
VICTORVILLE WATER DISTRICT - 9 - BOARD ORDER NO.
IWTP, POND No.WDR and REUSE WRRs R6V-2014-0002
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001
naturally occurring background groundwater quality in the Regional/Floodplain Aquifer in
the vicinity of the percolation pond Nos. 7 through 14 was determined to be 0.62 mg/L
nitrate as nitrogen (nitrate-N) and 294 mg/L TDS.
After VVWRA discharge into its percolation pond Nos. 7 through 13 began, groundwater
degradation was observed. Pollution was indicated when groundwater nitrate-N
concentrations exceeded 10 mg/L, the drinking water standard, incorporated into the
Water Quality Plan for the Lahontan Region (Basin Plan). The Water Board issued
Cease and Desist Order No.R6V-2008-0005 requiring VVWRA to upgrade its facility for
nitrogen removal and address conditio

===PLANNED CHANGES===

