[Page 3]
7. Revised Report of Waste Discharge
The Discharger submitted a complete revised Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD)
for updated WDRs/WRRs under California Water Code (CWC), section 13260, on
January 14, 2019. The documents constituting the ROWD are listed in the following
table.
Report of Waste Discharge Components
Date Item Author
November 29, 2018 • Form 200 City of Barstow
• Effluent data and graphs
• Groundwater data and graphs
• Preliminary Design Report
• Revised Farm Management Plan
January 14, 2019 • Responses to Water Board letter City of Barstow
dated December 20, 2018 and email
dated January 3, 2019
• Biosolids disposal information
8. Facility Description
The Facility receives wastewater from residential, commercial, and industrial
developments including pretreated industrial wastewater from the Burlington
Northern and Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway Company classification yard. The Facility
has produced treated secondary nitrified effluent since 1971. Since 2009, the
Facility has been upgraded to produce treated secondary denitrified effluent. The
Facility’s process flow diagram is shown on Attachment B.
a. Collection System and Head Works – The plant has a design flow rate of
4.5 MGD and a current average daily flow of 2.1 MGD. The treatment plant
headworks is equipped with fine screens and a grit chamber.
b. Septage Receiving – The Facility does not currently accept septage waste.
c. Primary Treatment – Prior to biological treatment, raw wastewater enters through
two parallel settling tanks, called primary clarifiers.
d. Secondary Treatment – After primary clarifiers, wastewater is treated in two
parallel biological aeration basins with anoxic zones, and four secondary
clarifiers.
[Page 4]
CITY OF BARSTOW - 5 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0252
Wastewater Treatment Plant WDID No. 6B360101001
San Bernardino County
e. Solids Handling – Sludge and scum from the primary clarifiers are pumped to a
gravity thickener. Sludge from the secondary clarifiers is pumped to an aerobic
digester for stabilization. Scum from the secondary clarifiers is pumped to drying
beds. Waste biosolids are dewatered in two screw presses and 10 small lined
and 6 large lined drying beds. All the drying beds have sludge liquid collection
drains that go to the inlet of the secondary aeration basins. The screw press
filtrate is returned to the inlet of the secondary aeration basins. Headworks
screenings and grit are classified and disposed to a local landfill. Dried sludge
solids are hauled to offsite authorized disposal location, currently a compositing
facility located at 14479 Cougar Road, Helendale.
f. Percolation Ponds – Secondary treated wastewater is discharged into eight
percolation ponds on the south side of the Mojave River. The total percolation
pond surface area is approximately 44 acres.
g. Recycled Water – Secondary, denitrified effluent is applied to a 65-acre field
(South Irrigation Field) as recycled water to irrigate crops, predominately alfalfa.
Two fields (North and South Irrigation Fields), previously were used by the
Discharger to dispose of biosolids and secondary treated nitrified effluent from
the Facility. CDO No. R6V-2004-0029 required the Discharger to cease biosolids
application at both irrigation fields. The Discharger also elected to only use
recycled water at the South Irrigation Field and, since 2004, stopped applying
effluent to the North Irrigation Field. A Farm Management Plan, dated
October 31, 2018, estimated an average monthly water crop need of 21 millio

[Page 5]
August 2003, the Facility produced effluent containing an average total nitrogen
concentration of 30 mg/L. The CDO required the Discharger to immediately meet
the effluent total nitrogen interim limit of 26 mg/L. The Discharger improved the
operational conditions, such as adjusting the aeration rate, which decreased the
average effluent total nitrogen concentration to 26 mg/L.
The Facility upgrades to discharge treated secondary denitrified effluent were
completed in 2009. Subsequently, the Discharger independently conducted
additional Facility improvements.
Further Facility upgrades to improve nitrification and denitrification processes began
in December 2013 and were completed in July 2015. The average effluent nitrate
as nitrogen concentration from April 2015 to October 2018 was 4.9 mg/L. The
Facility upgrades included the replacement of pipelines, the replacement of
electrical gear, the installation of standby generator, modification of the anoxic
zone, stormwater protection for solids, and the installation of dewatering equipment.
The Discharger will continuously conduct Facility improvements including
rehabilitation of all unit treatment processes at the Facility.
The Facility is not designed to treat TDS. Drinking water provided for domestic use
contains TDS concentrations ranging from 450 to 480 mg/L and is further discussed
in Finding 24. The average effluent TDS concentration from April 2015 to October
2018 was 640 mg/L, an approximate 150 to 200 mg/L increase over municipal
drinking water TDS concentrations and typical for normal do

===PLANNED CHANGES===

