[Page 64]
1. Facility Description. The Facility is a four-member joint powers authority
established in 1977. The Facility, located within the City of Victorville, provides
advanced secondary treatment of domestic and commercial wastewater for the City
of Victorville, Town of Apple Valley, and the City of Hesperia, along with two San
Bernardino County Service Areas (No. 42, Oro Grande, and No. 64, Spring Valley
Lakes). The Facility also receives discharges from septage tank hauling companies.
The service area population is approximately 284,380.
2. Collection System. The Facility service area includes both sewered customers and
unsewered septic tank dischargers. Sewered customers discharge to the Facility
through a raw sewage collection system that includes gravity sewers, sewage sump
stations and sewage force mains from the City of Victorville, Spring Valley Lake (San
Bernardino County Service Area No. 64), Southern California Logistics Airport
(formerly George Air Force Base), Town of Apple Valley, Oro Grande (San
Bernardino County Service Area No. 42), and City of Hesperia. The Discharger
maintains approximately 40 miles of trunk interceptor lines that receive sewage from
an approximately 216 square mile service area. The discharger obtained coverage
for the sewer collection system under the State General Permit for Sanitary Sewers
(Order 2006-0003-DWQ).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 65]
VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY ORDER R6V-2013-0038
VICTOR VALLEY REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102822
3. Treatment Description.
a. Recent Facility Upgrades. The Fact Sheet for Order No. R6V-2008-004
discussed potential future Facility upgrades, including membrane biological
reactor technology. The Discharger has implemented a number of Facility
upgrades that differ from those previously discussed in their past permit. A
summary of Facility upgrades implemented over the previous permit term are
summarized below:
i. Rebuilding of aeration basins 1 through 8, repair aeration distribution system,
replaced all diffusers membranes.
ii. Installed recirculation pumps to basins 1 through 8, increasing the internal
recycling rate/volume, thus increasing denitrification.
iii. Installed more control instrumentation, dissolved oxygen probes, and
oxidation reduction potential sensors.
iv. Switched to tapered aeration to enhance nitrification at head of aeration tank
and reduce dissolved oxygen at end of aerator to allow for internal recycling
of nitrified mixed liquor to anoxic zones for increased denitrification.
v. Installed high speed blower on aeration basins 9 through 12.
vi. Installed a scum skimmer in distribution channel.
vii. Improved return activated sludge pumping and control systems.
viii. Improved operational controls based on a nitrogen study to optimize
nitrogen removal process.
ix. Installed magnesium hydroxide injection system to enhance alkalinity for
nitrification.
b. Current Treatment Process. Treatment processes consist of screening (two
influent channels equipped with aquascreens and one influent channel equipped
with a manually cleaned bar rack), two aerated grit chambers, primary
sedimentation (eight primary clarifiers), flow equalization, secondary biological
treatment (12 aeration basins), secondary clarification (10 secondary clarifiers,
five with a 55-foot diameter and five with an 80-foot diameter), coagulation, cloth
media filtration, and Ultraviolet Light (UV) disinfection. The Facility has the
capacity to treat up to 18 MGD of wastewater, with an additional emergency
storage basin with a 4 million gallon capacity.
Prior to entering UV disinfection, secondary effluent is routed to a collection
structure that distributes the secondary effluent to either the UV disinfection or to
percolation ponds located on site. Treated wastewater is diverted to the six north
percolation ponds (Pond Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) by gravity or six south percolation
ponds (7, 8, 9 - currently not available, 10, 11, 12, and 13) by pumping. Pond 9
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 66]
VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY ORDER R6V-2013-0038
VICTOR VALLEY REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102822
was backfilled, but VVWRA wants to retain the ability to reconstruct the pond at a
future date. Pond 14 is reserved for other discharger uses. Pond 14 will only be
used by the City of Victorville. The north percolations ponds (Pond Nos. 1 – 6)
receive treated effluent by gravity, but are limited to operation during summer
months. Treated wastewater routed to the UV disinfection system is then either
reclaimed for use on the Victorville Westwinds Golf Course or High Desert Power
Plant or discharged to the Mojave River via Discharge Point No. 001. Only
discharges to Discharge Point No. 001 are regulated by this Order.
In addition to the Facility, the Discharger intends to construct two sub-regional
reclamation plants, the Apple Valley Sub-Regional Reclamation Plant and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

