[Page 15]
9. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
9.1. Revised Report of Waste Discharge
The Discharger submitted a complete revised report of waste discharge (RWD) to
update WDRs under CWC, section 13260, on November 26, 2019. The documents
constituting the RWD are listed in Table 4.
Table 4 – Revised Report of Waste Discharge
Date Item Author
December 3, 2018 Form 200 signed by Discharger Sanitation Districts of
Lancaster Water Reclamation Plant Los Angeles County
RWD
January 24, 2019 Response to January 3, 2020, Water Sanitation Districts of
Board Staff Comments on RWD Los Angeles County
The Facility has a design daily average flow rate of 18 million gallons per day (MGD).
During 2019, the annual average daily flow was 13.44 MGD. The Facility provides
tertiary, disinfected treatment by utilizing the following treatment process sequence:
comminution, grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge treatment with
biological nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, inert-media gravity
filtration, and chloramine disinfection. Prior to delivery to Piute Ponds, disinfected
recycled water is dechlorinated to protect aquatic life. Influent flow to the Facility is
conveyed from the Sanitation District’s sewer collection system. Solids processing
occurs onsite and biosolids are hauled off-site for composting. See Attachment D for a
process-flow schematic.
9.2. Industrial Pretreatment Program
As required under CCR, title 23, section 2233(a), Publicly Owned Treatment Works
treating an average dry weather flow of 5 MGD or more of community wastewater must
have and enforce an adequate pretreatment program approved by the Water Board.
The Discharger implements a pretreatment program to prevent the intr

[Page 16]
9.3. Sewer Collection System
Domestic and industrial wastewater from authorized dischargers is delivered to the
Discharger’s main trunk sewer collection system for delivery to the Facility’s headworks.
9.4. Septage Receiving
The Facility accepts liquid waste consisting of portable toilet, septic tank, and cesspool
wastes of domestic origin in compliance with 40 CFR 4035(b)(8). Approximately 85,000
gallons per month were received in 2019. The Facility liquid waste handling station
consists of a septage interceptor connected to the trunk sewer. The trunk sewer directs
flow to the plant headworks for treatment. Grit removal from the interceptor is conducted
on a biweekly basis.
9.5. Headworks
The headworks consists of an influent pump station, comminutors, bar screen, aerated
grit chambers, and primary sedimentation. There are six primary sedimentation tanks
that are operated in parallel. Primary sludge and skimmings are pumped to the
anaerobic digestion system.
9.6. Secondary Treatment
Following primary sedimentation, effluent is pumped into nine aeration tanks divided
into three aeration units operating in parallel with biological nitrification and
denitrification. The secondary clarifiers consist of 14 tanks operating in parallel. Return
activated sludge is sent back to one of each aeration tank. Waste activated sludge is
sent to the dissolved air flotation system prior to being sent to the anaerobic digestion
system.
9.7. Recycled Water Treatment
Effluent is disinfected with chloramine (ammonia and sodium hypochlorite) prior to
entering six dual media gravity filters for reduction of turbidity and suspended solids.
Filtrate is sent to chlorine contact tanks while backwash is sent to influent sewer or
aeration tanks. Chlorine contact tanks provide residence time for disinfection by
chloramines, which are formed by the addition of ammonia and sodium hypochlorite to
the effluent.
9.7.1. Recycled Water Exceptions
As stated in the CCR, title 22, section 60303, recycled water requirements do not apply
to recycled water used onsite at a water recycling plant or wastewater treatment plant,
provided access by the public to the area of onsite recycled water use is restricted.
[Page 17]
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 18 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No

[Page 20]
9.12.2. Eastern Agricultural Site
The EAS consists of approximately 3,200 cropped acreage in two adjacent sites: Site 1
and Site 2. The Discharger owns the land within the EAS. The EAS, Site 1, consists
of 12, 160-acre, center pivot irrigation systems (1,920 acres, pivots 1 - 12) and the EAS,
Site No. 2, consists of 8, 160-acre, center pivot irrigation systems (1,280 acres, pivots
13 – 20). Not all the EAS, Site 2 pivots are currently in operation, pending increases in
Facility flow. The Discharger also owns an adjacent EAS, Site 3, which is reserved for
future growth flow and has no irrigation equipment installed for the purposes of using
recycled water (approximately 1,420 acres owned by the Discharger, no

===PLANNED CHANGES===

