[Page 2]
6. Description of Facilities
a. Descripljon of Collection System
The Discharger owns a 63-mile network of trunk sewers and is responsible
for Operation andmaintenaflce-ofthis nelworltlocalsewers convey
wastewater to the trunk-sewer network. The Cities of Lancaster and
Palmdale own the local sewers within their borders. The County owns the
majority of the local sewers located in unincorporated areas. The County
Consolidated Sewer Maintenance District, under an agreement with the
• Cities of Lancaster and Palmdale, operates and maintains most local sewers
within the Discharger's service area.
b. Description of Existing primary and Secondary Treatment Facility
All wastewater receives primary treatment by sedimentation tanks followed
by secondary treatment in oxidation ponds NO.1 through 10. The primary
treatment facility has a treatment capacity of 17 mgd and the secondary
treatment facility has a treatment capacity of 16 mgd.
Oxidation ponds No. 1 through 6 include surface aerators. Anaerobic
digesters treat sludge from the primary sedimentation tanks. Digested slUdge
is dried and stockpiled onsite until transport to a composting facility. Dried
sludge that may be generated from pond cleaning will be hauled offsite for
disposal/reuse at an authorized reuse or disposal site.
c. Description of Existing Tertiary Treatment Plant (AVTTP)
The source of influent flow for the AVTTP plant is secondary effluent from
the Discharger's last oxidation pond. This plant has capacity to treat a
maximum of 0.6 million gallons during a 24-hour period. For longer time­
periods the treatment capacity is limited to 0.5 mgd. This plant includes
•
chemical addition for coagulationlflocculation and phosphorus removal,
followed by sedimentation, filtration, and disinfection with hypochlorite. The
plant was not designed for nitrogen removal. Concentrations of key
constituents in the effluent are described in Finding No. 14.
[Page 3]
LOS ANGELES COUNTY - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2006-0035
SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 14 WDID NO. 6B190604011
LANCASTER
e· Los Angeles County
d. Description of Membrane BjoreactorTertiary Treatment Plant
The source of influent wastewater flow for the proposed MBR plant is
effluent from the Discharger's primary treatment facility. The plant will
include: (i) a suspended-growth biological process, (ii) membrane
.. bioreactors (MBRs) and (iii) two ultraviolet disinfection systems. The
treatment capacity of the proposed MBR plant in terms of effluent production
is: (i) annual average net flow of 1.0 mgd, and (ii) maximum daily average
net flow of 1.75 mgd: The two ultraviolet disinfection systems will be
operated in parallel and each will have disinfection treatment capacity of 1.0
mgd (in terms of average daily flow). The MBR plant will provide removal of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and nitrogen using a single-sludge,
suspended-growth biological treatment process with MBR tanks instead of
conventional clarifiers. Suspended"groWth biological treatment will occur in
activated sludge tanks, with initial treatment in an anoxic zone followed by
further treatment in an aerobic zone. Flow from the activated sludge tanks
will go to the MBR tanks for further treatment, including filtration by
membranes and removal of sludge. Removed sludge will either be returned
• to the activated sludge tanks or wasted to Oxidation Pond No.1 .
The Discharger will use citric acid and sodium hypochlorite solutions to
periodically clean the surfaces of membranes in the MBR tanks. Use of
these solutions will be minimal and not cause pH or concentrations of
disinfection byproducts to exceed values in Table No.2.
e. Description of Conveyance System
The Discharger has completed construction of a pipeline and a temporary
pump station. The pipeline and pump station are part of a system for conveying
the disinfected tertiary recycled water a distance of seven mile to the proposed
Eastern Agricultural Site NO.1. The Discharger proposes to construct a ..
permanent pump

[Page 5]
7. Regulation of Recycled Water
a. Regulation
This Order includes water-recycling requirements. It requires the Discharger
to comply with Uniform Statewide Reclamation Criteria (California Code of
Regulations, title 22, sections 60301 through 60355) established pursuant to
Water Code section 13521.
As required under California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60323
(22CCR§60323), the Discharger has submitted to the Lahontan Water Board
and State Department of Health Services (SDHS) engineering reports for
production of disinfected tertiary recycled water, which are described in parts
b, c and d of this' Finding. The engineering report described in part c is
complete. Provision No. II.B.ofIhisOrder'-requires-fheDischaiger submit to
the Lahontan Water Board copies of the finalized versions of engineering
reports described in part b. and d. of this Finding. The final version must
address recommendations of the State Department of Health Services.
• b. Engineering Report (Auxiliary Sodium Hypochlorite System)
The Discharger plans to initially disinfect combined effluents from the AVTTP
and MBR plants using an auxiliary sodium hypochlorite disinfection system.
. Contact time for disinfection will occur in the effluent outfall pipeline to Eastern
Agricultural Site No.1. Use of the aUXiliary system will continue while the
Discharger tests the ultraviolet disinfection systems located at the MBR plant.
The testing is expected to take up to two months. The Discharger has
submitted the following engineering report for the auxiliary disinfection system:
Los Angeles County Sanitation District No. 14,2006, Amended Report of
Waste Discharge And Engineering Report For Membrane Bioreactor (MBR)
with Chlorination Pilot Plant, Mar. 24. (LACSD14, 2006, Mar 24)
c. Engineering Report (AVTTP plant with hypochlorite disinfection)
The final engineering report for this plant, which addresses the
recommendations of the SDHS, consists of:
(i) An initial report prepared by the Discharger and titled Lancaster Water
Reclamation Plant Effluent Reuse Expansion - Phase I, Engineering
Report, January 15, 2005,
(ii) A June 2, 2005 letter from SDHS providing recommendations on the
report, and
•
(iii) An August 8. 2005 letter from the Discharger that addresses
recommendations in SDHS's June 2 letter.
[Page 6]
LOS ANGELES COUNTY - 7- BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2006-0035
SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 14 WDID NO. 6B190604011
• LANCASTER
Los Angeles County
d. Engineering Report (MBR tertiary treatment plant with ultraviolet disinfection)
The Discharger has submitted the following engineering report for the MBR
tertiary treatment plant with ultraviolet disinfection: Amended Report of
Waste Discharge and Engineering Report for Membrane Bioreactor with
Ultraviolet Disinfection Pilot Plant, April 10, 2006.
8. I and Ownership
The treatment facilities and Eastern Agricultural Site No.1 are located on land
owned by the Discharger.
. 9. Authorized DisposallWater Recycling Sites
.This Orderauthorizes:
a. Use of disinfected tertiary recycled water at Eastern Agricultural Site No.1, and
b. Use of recycled water for non-potable uses within the existing treatment
plant site a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

