[Page 2]
7. Facility Description and History
The Valley Wells SRRA was completed and open to the public in 1980. The original
wastewater treatment systems consisted of four 6,000-gallon septic tanks and
subsurface leach dispersal fields on each side (northbound and southbound). Two-
6,000-gallon septic tanks northbound and two-6,000-gallon tanks southbound. One
septic tank serviced the men’s restroom flow and the other tank serviced the women’s
restroom flow on each side of I-15. The effluent flow from the men’s and women’s
septic tanks would combine at a central distribution box and feed into a battery of
several distribution boxes connected to five parallel 80-foot leach-lines. There were no
monitoring wells installed when the original leach-fields were constructed.
In 1987, Caltrans discovered that there were frequent backups in the women’s
restrooms and deterioration of the septic tanks. Due to significant increases in Facility
usage, Caltrans determined that the 6,000-gallon septic tanks were undersized and did
not have sufficient storage capacity for proper treatment. In 1993, Caltrans upgraded
the Facility and installed two 24,000-gallon septic tanks and expanded the leach fields
on both the northbound and southbound sides of I-15. These septic tanks discharge
effluent by gravity flow to the associated leach fields.
Currently, both existing septic tanks are in poor condition, and Caltrans determined that
they should be replaced. The septic tank’s effluent filters at the southbound comfort
station are missing. The septic tank’s effluent filters at the northbound comfort station
are severely damaged. The coating on the septic tanks at both the southbound and
northbound comfort stations are peeling off. In addition, the septic tank sidewall
concrete is deteriorating rapidly; continued operation of the septic tanks in this
condition may affect the structural integrity of the tanks.
In 2018, Caltrans constructed a new water supply well that provides water for drinking
and toilet flushing at both the northbound and the southbound comfort stations. Based
on the well driller’s log, groundwater was encountered at 112.62 feet below ground
surface.
[Page 3]
CALTRANS VALLEY WELLS - 4 - WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
Safety Roadside Rest Area BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2021-0022
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B361809001
8. Effluent Quality
The Valley Wells SRRA facility receives large volumes of urine, which is a highly
concentrated source of ammonia nitrogen derived from people’s use of this Facility.
The following table describes the key constituent concentrations from the Facility’s
effluent as compared with typical untreated domestic wastewater characteristics. These
data show that the Facility produces high-strength wastewater as compared to typical
wastewater.
Table 3 – Effluent Quality
Typical Untreated Wastewater from the
Constituent Domestic Wastewater - SRRA Facility (mg/L)
Medium Strength (mg/L)1
Ammonia 25 245
Biochemical Oxygen Demand 190 470
Chemical Oxygen Demand 430 1,600
Total Alkalinity 60-120 1,150
Total Dissolved Solids 150-380 1,000
Total Nitrogen 40 280
Total Phosphorous 7 29
Total Suspended Solids 210 550
1 Values obtained from Wastewater Engineering, Treatment and Reuse: Metcalf & Eddy,
4th Edition, Table 3-15.
9. Authorized Disposal Sites
The authorized disposal sites are the dispersal leach-lines located on the northbound
and southbound sides of the Facility. These are the only authorized sites for disposal of
treated wastewater. There are approximately 2,227 lineal feet of northbound leach lines
and 3,340 lineal feet of southbound leach lines.
10. Recycled Water
Recycled water uses are not planned for this Facility nor authorized by this Board
Order.
11. Future Projects
Because the septic tanks are deteriorating, continued operation risks the structural
integrity of the tanks. Prior to constructing a replacement wastewater treatment plant,
the content of the existing septic tanks will be pumped out and sewage waste properly
disposed off-site. The existing wastewater piping system may be disconnected, capped
with concrete, and abandoned in place. The existing leach-field piping, from both the
northbound and southbound septic tanks, may be disconnected, capped with concrete,
and abandoned in place. Final disposition of treatment and disposal components will be
determined when Caltrans submits the Report of Waste Discharge for the upgraded
wastewater treatment plant.
[Page 4]
CALTRANS VALLEY WELLS - 5 - WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
Safety Roadside Rest Area BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2021-0022
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B361809001
The Discharger proposes to construct a facility to reduce water consumption at all
Caltrans rest area facilities, including this Facility. The Valley Wells SRRA will
incorporate low-flow fixtures for urinals, toilets, and sinks. To reduce maintenance
requirements and improve the system cost effectiveness and reliability, the northbound
and southbound effluent wastewater flows will be combined for treatment in a single
treatment system with new septic tanks installed. Following treatment, the combined
wastewater effluent will be dispersed onsite to a shallow leach-field system proposed to
be located on the southbound parcel. Conceptually, the Discharger has proposed a
new wastewater treatment system that will reduce total nitrogen to below 10 mg/L prior
to disposal at the leach-fields.
Caltrans has proposed the following dates (Table 4) that are the basis for time
schedules included in this Board Order to complete a future project consisting of the
installation of an upgraded treatment plant, septic tanks, and leach-field to improve
wastewater treatment and remove excess nitrogen in the effluent before disposal. In
the RWD, Caltrans proposed the following reports and schedule. The actual time
schedules included in this Board Order are modified slightly based on discussions with
Caltrans staff.
Table 4 – Proposed Facility Upgrade Time Schedule
Date Action
September 2021 Submittal of proposal

[Page 5]
16. Climatology
The Valley Wells SRRA is located in the Mojave Desert and has a dry, arid climate
characterized by infrequent rainfall, cold winters, and hot summers with low humidity.
The mean annual temperature is 80 degrees Fahrenheit (F) and ranges from a high of
105 degrees F in the summer to a low of 30 degrees F in the winter. Precipitation in the
vicinity of the Facility averages 5-inches annually.
17. Site Soils and Geology
Based on percolation test results conducted in 1989 by the Caltrans laboratory, the site
soil is comprised of slightly clayey, silty sand with an average percolation rate of 12
minutes per inch. In two of the eight test sample locations, the percolation rates were
greater than 1 minute per inch, which is a very fast rate of percolation and an indication
of limited soil treatment abilities.
The Basin Plan, Chapter 4.4, states that where percolation rates are faster than 5
minutes per inch, the soil underl

===PLANNED CHANGES===

