[Page 71]
Board Order No. R6V-2013-0005.
The Facility has a treatment capacity of 18 MGD but is permitted to discharge only
14 MGD to the Mojave River on an average annual basis. The Facility is not requesting an
increase in permitted flow to the Mojave River. The flow authorized by DDW for
disinfecting recycled water is 22 MGD.
The disposal to land is regulated by Board Order No. R6V-2012-0058. The disposal facility
consists of six north percolation ponds and seven south percolation ponds. There are 11
sludge drying beds and 2 sludge lagoons. The north percolation ponds are used when the
plant cannot achieve the treatment quality required for direct river discharge. The south
percolation ponds are the facility’s main disposal site. These ponds can either be filled
individually or in series. In 2015, the two sludge lagoons were lined. The sludge lagoons
act as sludge thickeners. Liquid is returned to the plant for treatment, and the thickened
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 72]
VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R6V-2020-0028
VICTOR VALLEY REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102822
sludge, now called bio-solids, is applied off-site as a soil amendment for agricultural use.
This permit covers discharges to surface waters only.
The Discharger is enrolled under State Water Board Order WQ 2016-0068

[Page 72]
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
Treatment processes consist of screening, grit chambers, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, aeration basins, secondary clarification, cloth media filtration, and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection. Solids undergo thickening, anaerobic digestion,
dewatering, and on-site storage until transported off-site for fuel, land application, or
composting. Prior to UV disinfection, wastewater may be diverted to percolation
ponds on-site that are regulated under Board Order No. R6V-2012-0058. Remaining
effluent is disinfected by the UV system and either delivered to recycled water users
or discharged to the Mojave River.
1. Screening and Grit Chamber
Influent wastewater undergoes screening (two influent channels) through bar
screens, a.k.a. “aquascreens,” prior to two parallel, aerated grit chambers. Debris
from the bar screens is collected and disposed of in a municipal landfill. Grit that
is removed passes through one of two hydrocyclones operated in parallel, and
the separated solids are hauled off-site for disposal. The water removed from the
hydrocyclones flows back to the grit chamber. For flow equalization, influent
wastewater can be diverted to Equalization Basin 3 (EQ3). During peak flow,
primary effluent can be diverted to Equalization Basin 1 and/or 2 (EQ1, EQ2).
2. Primary Sedimentation
The facility has eight primary clarifiers. The primary clarifiers are equipped with
helix skimmers that remove floating scum. Settled solids and scum from the
primary clarifiers are pumped to anaerobic digesters.
3. Aeration Basins
From the primary clarifiers, wastewater flow is split among 12 aerations basins. In
November 2015, the Discharger completed equipment maintenance and
upgrades to the air delivery system including a new diffuser system for more
efficient cycling of anoxic and anaerobic conditions and larger air pipe headers for
increased air delivery to the basins. Several dissolved oxygen probes are located
throughout the aeration basins and are used for monitoring process conditions.
The aeration basins are configured to allow for recirculation within the chambers
to provide extended treatment. Effluent from the aeration basins flows through a
mixed liquor channel that is equipped with a scum trough.
4. Secondary Clarifiers
Wastewater in the mixed liquor channel flows to one of 10 secondary clarifiers for
solids settling. The Facility preferentially uses five newer, larger clarifiers. During
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 73]
VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R6V-2020-0028
VICTOR VALLEY REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102822
high flows, five older, smaller clarifiers are used on an as-needed basis. Return
activated sludge is pumped to the aeration basins. Waste activated sludge is
pumped to a dissolved air flotation thickener (DAFT).
5. Cloth Media Filtration
Following secondary clarification, wastewater flows to a chamber formerly used
for polymer addition. Although the Facility does not routinely add polymer, they
have the capability to do so at this location. The Facility employs two Aqua
Diamond filtration units operated in parallel. The filtration units provide cloth
media filtration and are equipped with a travelling bridge backwash component.
Effluent from the filtration units may be diverted to the percolation ponds for disposal
or may undergo further UV treatment for use as recycled water under Board Order
No. R6V-2003-0028 or for discharge to the Mojave River under this NPDES permit
(CA0102822).
6. UV Disinfection
An enclosed building contains the UV disinfection units. In the event of power
failure, the Facility maintains backup power for the UV system or may
alternatively discharge wastewater to the percolation ponds under Board Order
No. R6V-2012-0058. Following UV disinfection, wastewater may be discharged to
the Mojave River at Discharge Point 001.
7. Solids Treatment and Disposal
Waste activated sludge from the sub-regional wastewater treatment plants and
fats, oils, and greases (FOG) collected from various entities, such as restaurants,
is trucked in and fed to one of two DAFTs. Waste activated sludge from clarifiers
is also pumped to the DAFTs. Polymer is added to sludge at the DAFTs for
improved gas formation. Thickened sludge from the DAFTs as well as sludge
from primary treatment is pumped to five anaerobic digesters. From the digesters,
sludge is pumped to two sludge lagoons, then is dewatered by gravity belt
thickener, then transferred to soil-cement lined solar drying beds.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
This Board Order regulates discharge tertiary treated wastewater from EFF-001
(formerly Discharge Point 001) to the Mojave River and the production of delivered
recycled water at EFF-003 to use areas. This Board Order does not regulate
discharges to onsite percolation ponds at EFF-002. The term EFF-001 and Discharge
Point 001 are the same. To be consistent with State Water terminology, the term
EFF-001 is now preferred.
Table F-2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Effluent Discharge Point Discharge Point
Discharge Point Receiving Water
Description Latitude Longitude
Advanced
EFF-001 Disinfected Tertiary 34.61694 -117.35333 Mojave River
Treated Effluent
ATTACHMENT

===PLANNED CHANGES===

