[Page 2]
3. The WWTP has the following types of treatment: preliminary treatment, secondary
treatment, and sludge drying and treatment. Secondary treated wastewater from the
WWTP is disposed of through three possible discharge points that are designated in
Order R8-2005-0044 as Point 001, Point 002, and Point 003. The discharges from
the WWTP at Points 002 and 003 are regulated by the Santa Ana Regional Water
Quality Control Board. The majority of the treated wastewater is discharged through
Discharge Point 001 int

[Page 3]
9. Wastewater that is discharged at the Lucerne Valley Facility goes through
preliminary and secondary treatment at the WWTP before it is sent via gravity to
the concrete reservoir at the Lucerne Valley Facility. The WWTP components that
are used for treatment are described below and the Process Flow Diagram for the
WWTP is shown in Attachment B–Process Flow Diagram.
a. Preliminary Treatment. Untreated wastewater flows to the preliminary
treatment system, which consists of bar screens, aerated grit chamber with
grit washer, and a flow bypass channel. This treatment stage removes
screenings, rag material, and grit.
b. Secondary Treatment. Effluent flows by gravity from the preliminary
treatment system to three parallel oxidation ditches for secondary
(biological) treatment and timed processes for nutrient (nitrogen) removal.
The number of ditches in operation depends on the seasonal fluctuations of
the influent flow. The effluent from the oxidation ditches flows into a system
of three secondary clarifiers for removal of floatable and settleable
solids/materials. The secondary treated effluent flows to two cement-lined
balancing chambers and then flows to equalization storage ponds at the
WWTP until pumped for offsite irrigation disposal.
c. Offsite Irrigation/Disposal. Undisinfected secondary treated wastewater
is pumped from the WWTP’s main pump building (5.2 MGD) or auxiliary
[Page 4]
ORDER R7-2021-0023 3
BIG BEAR AREA REGIONAL WASTEWATER AGENCY
EXPORT OF RECYCLED WATER TO LUCERNE VALLEY
pump building (9.2 MGD) approximately 16.5 miles to an offsite 2.26-
million-gallon,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

