[Page 4]
8. The WRP consists of an influent pump station, headworks, a membrane
bioreactor (MBR), two ultraviolet (UV) disinfection units, solids handling, solids
storage and dewatering facilities, recharge basins for effluent disposal, and an
odor control system. The headworks system consists of mechanical bar screens,
vortex grit removal, influent fine screenings and grit washers. Primary and
secondary treatment units consist of an MBR, nitrification, de-nitrification and
include anoxic, aerobic, and swing zones. Further treatment is provided by
membrane filtration basins, and UV disinfection (vessels) banks. Sodium
hypochlorite will be used for process control to remove excess biological growth
or algae from the treatment units and may be used in the final effluent. The WRP
produces disinfected tertiary treated recycled water, which is discharged into
1 Detailed plans for the GRRP portion of this project are not yet developed and will require DDW review
and approval prior to imple

[Page 4]
8. The WRP consists of an influent pump station, headworks, a membrane
bioreactor (MBR), two ultraviolet (UV) disinfection units, solids handling, solids
storage and dewatering facilities, recharge basins for effluent disposal, and an
odor control system. The headworks system consists of mechanical bar screens,
vortex grit removal, influent fine screenings and grit washers. Primary and
secondary treatment units consist of an MBR, nitrification, de-nitrification and
include anoxic, aerobic, and swing zones. Further treatment is provided by
membrane filtration basins, and UV disinfection (vessels) banks. Sodium
hypochlorite will be used for process control to remove excess biological growth
or algae from the treatment units and may be used in the final effluent. The WRP
produces disinfected tertiary treated recycled water, which is discharged into
1 Detailed plans for the GRRP portion of this project are not yet developed and will require DDW review
and approval prior to implementation.
[Page 5]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2022-0014 3
HI-DESERT WATER DISTRICT
YUCCA VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY
three spreading, surface impoundments (also known as recharge basins) for
groundwater recharge, as well as one off-spec basin that returns to the
equalization basin and reintroduced to the influent stream for treatment. Back-up
power will be available for all treatment units. The process flow is shown in
Attachment C- Process Flow Diagram, made part of this Order by reference.
9. Untreated wastewater flows from the influent pump station to the headworks for
preliminary treatment. Wastewater from the preliminary treatment system gravity
flows to the MBR system for secondary treatment. Secondary treated wastewater
then flows to the membrane filtration basins for further treatment and then to the
UV system for disinfection. The disinfected tertiary recycled water is then
discharged into three recharge basins.
10. Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) and foam from the MBR system are discharged
to sludge storage tanks. The tanks are aerated by a blower system to keep the
solids mixed and prevent them for turning anaerobic. Solids from the storage
tanks are pumped to screw presses for dewatering. Dewatered solids are
conveyed to a truck for hauling and disposal offsite. Dewatering liquor and other
plant discharges are collected in a process drain pump station and pumped to
the head of the plant upstream of the screens.
11. Chemical storage and dosing facilities are provided for sodium hypochlorite, citric
acid, dewatering polymer and other chemicals that may be required by the MBR
membrane manufacturer.
12. The Discharger’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from February 2020 through
November 2021 characterize the WRP effluent as follows:
Table 1. Effluent Characterization.
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 0.327 0.611 0.028
pH s.u. 7.3 8 6.6
Turbidity NTU 0.027 0.419 0.027
Total Coliform MPN/100mL <1.8 2 ND
20oC BOD mg/L 0.153 9.2 ND
5
[Page 6]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIR

===PLANNED CHANGES===

