[Page 70]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) that provides sewerage service to the City of Holtville, which has a
population of approximately 6,600. The wastewater treatment plant has a treatment
(design) capacity of 0.85 MGD and is located in the SW ¼ of Section 21, T15S,
R15E, SBB&M17.
Raw sewage first enters the septage receiving station where it’s mixed with air in the
septage holding tanks. The raw sewage is then received at the headworks, where
it’s passed through a grit chamber to separate solid particles. Wastewater is then
mixed with activated sludge in the mixed liquor structure, and it is subsequently
directed to a 170 feet (ft) x 124 ft Biolac® aeration basin where air is once again
introduced into the sewage water. Wastewater discharged from the Biolac® aeration
basin is then passed through two (2) secondary clarifiers (40 ft x 43 ft) in parallel.
Sludge collected from the secondary clarifiers is dewatered at a rotary drum
thickener and then pumped to six (6) sludge drying beds (three (3) sludge beds
measuring 70 ft x 38 ft and three (3) more measuring 92 ft x 40 ft). The sludge drying
beds are equipped with sand filters and perforated underdrains. Leachate collected
from the drying beds is pumped back to the headworks for reprocessing. After
drying, the sludge is hauled away to a farm in Arizona.
There is an option for the use of a secondary effluent pump station and continuous
backwash upflow filter if deemed necessary by the operational staff. The wastewater
from the secondary clarifiers flows through a ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system and
an effluent flow metering system before being discharged to the Pear Drain. The
effluent flows approximately 180 yards prior to entering the Alamo River, a water of
the United States (WOTUS).
2.B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32.83° North
and Longitude 115.43° West, to the Alamo River. The permitted maximu

===PLANNED CHANGES===

