[Page 65]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Imperial Community College District owns and operates a wastewater treatment plant
designed to service 6,000 students, faculty, and staff at Imperial Valley College, which is located in
Imperial. The Facility treats wastewater that is purely domestic and neither industrial nor
commercial. The Facility, which is located in the SE portion of Section 22, T15S, R14E, SBB&M,
has a design capacity of 0.100 million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Raw sewage flows by gravity through a collection system servicing approximately 6,000
students, faculty, and staff at the college. A lift station located approximately 0.25 miles north
of the Facility (near the center of the college) pumps the raw sewage to the Facility. The
Facility consists of two contact stabilization extended aeration activated sludge-type package
plants operating in parallel to provide secondary treatment. The first package plant operates
at a design capacity of 0.100 MGD and runs continuously. The second package plant
operates at a design capacity of 0.050 MGD and runs only when the first plant is not in
operation; as a standby plant. Both plants operate in the same manner. Wastewater pumped
to the treatment works passes through a manual rake bar screen, into an aeration basin, then
into a clarifier located in the center of the package plant. Each plant also is equipped with an
aerobic sludge digester; sludge from the aerobic digester is pumped to a drying area and
placed into a dry sludge holding pile. The plant generates very little sludge and therefore,
solids are not transported off-site often. Clarified wastewater is disinfected with both
chlorination and by ultraviolet (UV) disinfection prior to discharge through Discharge Point 001
to the Central Drain.
The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and application for WDRs on August 23,
2012, to phase out the NPDES discharge and instead discharge effluent from the WWTP to
on-site evaporation/percolation ponds. The Colorado River Basin Water Board adopted
WDRs Board Order No. R7-2013-0018 for regulating discharges to on-site
evaporation/percolation ponds on March 21, 2013. The Permittee proposes to construct three
new evaporation/percolation ponds located at the northeast corner of the Facility to dispose of
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 7/10/13) F-4
[Page 66]
IMPERIAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT ORDER R7-2014-0026
IMPERIAL VALLEY COLLEGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104299
treated domestic wastewater. The new ponds will have a combined area of 72,000 square
feet (1.65 acres) and a total design disposal capacity of 0.050 million gallons per day (MGD).
The approved project was not fully operational at the time this fact sheet was drafted.
Discharges from the Facility to surface waters still occur.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude

===PLANNED CHANGES===

