[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 7,500
located in the City of Calipatria as well as the Calipatria State Prison. The wastewater treatment
plant has a treatment capacity of 1.73 MGD and is located in the SE quadrant of Section 6, T12S,
R14E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Wastewater from the City of Calipatria and the Calipatria State Prison is collected at two lift
stations. The Delta Lift Station receives all the City’s sewage and pumps to the Facility
through a 10-inch diameter, 2-mile long PVC force main. The lift station located at the
Calipatria State Prison pumps to the Facility through a 12-inch diameter, 2.5-mile long force
main. The Delta Lift Station does not employ preliminary treatment before conveying the
City’s raw sewage to the Facility. The prison’s lift station is equipped with a comminutor and
a rotating bar screen to remove large solids and floatable materials before conveying the
Calipatria State Prison’s raw sewage to the Facility.
The wastewater treatment plant consists of a four-cell aerated lagoon system. Treatment
consists of removal of large solids and floatable materials by a comminutor and rotating bar
screen (Calipatria State Prison’s lift station only; the City’s lift station does not undergo
preliminary treatment); clarification within the Facility’s four aerated lagoon ponds operating in
series; and disinfection with sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. To
date, the WWTP has not generated accumulated solids that warrant removal.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the “G”
Drain, a tributary to the Alamo River, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33° 8’ 50.9” North and
Longitude 115° 33’ 10” West, to

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated during the site visit that the City is seeking to obtain funds in order
to upgrade the effluent chlorination/dechlorination system (on-line monitoring and chemical
injection automation) and to repair the damaged (i.e., uplifted) liner in Pond #2.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 2/12/14) F-7
[Page 74]
CITY OF CALIPATRIA ORDER R7-2015-0005
CALIPATRIA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0105015
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter