[Page 7]
3. The Facility currently services an existing housing development of 39 residential
homes that discharge into a domestic wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal system. The treatment system consists of four septic tanks that flow
through a recirculation tank, then into four textile filters before distribution into a
large subsurface drip leach field located in the northwest corner of the
development.
4. The Facility was constructed in 2004 and rehabilitated in 2019. The 2019
rehabilitation included the replacement of various components of the wastewater
treatment plant. Filter bags were included, pumps, textile filter pods, valves, and
drip lines were replaced and an updated control system was installed.
1 PERC Water Corporation is not named

[Page 8]
8. The Facility’s treatment and disposal system consists of four septic tanks, a
recirculation tank, filters units (AdvanTex-AX100) and a subsurface drip leach
field located in the northwest corner of the development.
9. Raw wastewater from the sewer collection system enters the Facility from a
single gravity pipeline. The raw wastewater flows through four underground
septic tanks2 arranged in series that provide solids removal and primary
biological treatment to reduce nitrogen concentrations. There are two
submersible pumps in the last septic tank that are located within a screen filter.
The wastewater then gets discharged into the recirculation tank.
10. Screened wastewater from the last septic tank enters the recirculation tank3 via a
force main pipeline. There are two sets of two submersible pumps located within
a screened filter. Each set of submersible pumps then pump the wastewater to a
set of four textile filter pods for treatment.
11. Screened and blended wastewater from the recirculation tank enters the textile
filter pods via a force main pipeline. The screened wastewater is pu

[Page 8]
11. Screened and blended wastewater from the recirculation tank enters the textile
filter pods via a force main pipeline. The screened wastewater is pumped into six
textile filter pods that are operated in parallel that provide equivalent to
secondary treatment. Wastewater is recirculated through the textile filters for
further removal of suspended solids and total nitrogen. The effluent discharging
2 Each septic tank has a 13,000-gallon capacity.
3 The recirculation tank has a 25,000-gallon capacity.
GeoTracker ID: WDR100031484
WDID: 7A131006001
[Page 9]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2023-0015 3
COUNTY OF IMPERIAL
POE COLONIA (CADY SUBDIVISION) COMMUNITY
SUBSURFACE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
IMPERIAL COUNTY
out of each textile filter pod flows to the recirculation tank and/or the dosing tank
via a gravity pipeline. The recirculation tank has a specialized float valve that
diverts the flow to the dosing tank when the recirculation tank is full. Of the six
textile filter pods, only four are currently operational. Each set of two filter pods
receive flow from one set of recirculation pumps. There are two ventilation fans
that aerate the textile filter pods; one ventilation fan provides adequate air flow
for three textile filters. Each textile filter pod has an isolation valve that blocks air
flow when not in operation.
12. Effluent from the textile filter pods enter the dosing tank4 via a gravity pipeline.
There are two sets of two submersible pumps that are located within a screened
filter, which then pump wastewater through a final filter assembly.
13. Effluent from the dosing tank flows through a final filter assembly via a force main
pipeline. There are two final filter assemblies which receive flow from each set of
dosing tank pumps. Each of the final filter assemblies contains a BioDisc filter, a
bag filter, splitter valves, backwash assembly, and effluent flow meter. Each
splitter valve directs flow to any of its three underground drip zones.
14. There are a total of six underground drip zones that are separated into two
different segments as they are fed from two different dosing tank pumps that
discharge through the final filter assembly. Each drip zone has an area of 230
feet by 40 feet. Each drip zone has 20 pressurized drip lines that are spaced
longitudinally at 2 feet apart. The splitter valves allow for distribution of effluent to
each zone at different time intervals. Each drip zone has a flush pipeline that
allows for flushing of the pressurized drip pipelines.
15. An electrical control panel integrates the various treatment processes of the
wastewater treatment plant. It controls the operation of the septic tank pumps,
recirculation tank pumps, and dosing tank pumps, as triggered from water level
control floats. The process flow is shown in Attachment B.
16. Sludge is removed from the septic tanks annually and it is hauled to the Seeley
County Water District (SCWD) dump site. SCWD will not accept the sludge
unless it has a pH below 9 standards units.
4 The dosing tank has a 12,500-gallon capacity.
GeoTracker ID: WDR100031484
WDID: 7A131006001
[Page 10]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2023-0015 4
COUNTY OF IMPERIAL
POE COLONIA (CADY SUBDIVISION) COMMUNITY
SUBSURFACE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
IMPERIAL COUNTY
17. Quarterly Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from First Quarter 2018 through
First Quarter 2023 characterize the effluent as summarized in Table

===PLANNED CHANGES===

