[Page 70]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately
45,000 located in the City of Coachella. The wastewater treatment plant has a treatment capacity
of 4.5 MGD and is located in Section 15, T6S, R8E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The WWTP consists of a raw wastewater lift station, a headworks facility, two parallel
treatment trains, a disinfection system, and sludge drying beds.
Wastewater from the community is collected in the City’s domestic sewer collection system
and conveyed to the plant headworks facility, where the wastewater passes through a
mechanical fine screen and screenings are then removed, collected and disposed. The
current headworks configuration includes a single screen in the northern channel, a second
channel for a future screen, and a bypass channel with a manual bar rack. After passing
through the mechanical screen, raw wastewater flows into a packaged grit chamber (i.e., a
cyclone grit removal type system). The wastewater is then split by an automated flow control
structure and delivered to the activated sludge treatment system and the oxidation ditch
treatment system.
The Activated Sludge Treatment system capacity is 1.5 MGD and consists of two process
units operated in parallel. The Activated Sludge Treatment system consists of two Contact
Stabilization Tanks (CSTs). The Contact Stabilization Tanks (CST) process is characterized
as an activated sludge process with a moderately short sludge age followed by sludge
digestion. The circular tanks are compartmented by internal walls to create hydraulically
separate tanks for the initial wastewater stabilization (contact tank), clarification (clarifier),
solids aeration (re-aeration tank), and sludge digestion (digester). Air from centrifugal blowers
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 2/12/14) F-4
[Page 71]
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2015-0003
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104493
is delivered to the activated sludge by air diffusers installed on the floor of the contact tank,
re-aeration tank, and digester. Sludge removed from the CST digester is conveyed via sludge
wasting pumps which pump the sludge to the drying beds on the south end of the plant.
Clarified effluent from the center clarifier flows through a Parshall flume for effluent metering
and then through a closed pipe to the chlorine contact basins (CCB) for disinfection.
The Oxidation Ditch treatment system capacity is 3.0 MGD, (OD) process is characterized as
a modified extended aeration activated sludge process with a relatively long sludge age. The
tanks as constructed include a large aeration basin and a relatively smaller anoxic zone for
denitrification. The process consists of the large elongated oval tanks, secondary clarifiers,
and sludge pumping facilities. Raw wastewater (WW) and return activated sludge (RAS) are
delivered to the anoxic tank and mixed with the mixed liquor (ML) on the south end of the
structure. From the anoxic tank, the ML flows into the aeration basin where a large “vertical
turbine” mechanical surface aerator aerates and propels the mixed liquor around the tank (the
tank is sometimes described as a “racetrack” due to its shape and flow regime). A small
portion of the aeration basin flow is split off and returned to the anoxic zone to feed the
denitrification process while the majority of the flow overtops a series of weirs to feed the
secondary clarifiers. The two circular clarifiers settle and collect sludge. The settled sludge is
pulled from the bottom of the clarifier and continuously pumped back into the oxidation ditch
to maintain the mixed liquor concentration. As the solids concentration builds in the tanks, a
portion of the settled sludge is removed from the bottom of the clarifier via sludge wasting
pumps with pump the sludge to the drying beds on the south end of the plant. Clarified
effluent from the clarifier flows through a closed pipe into the chlorine contact basins (CCB)
for disinfection. Flow from the CCB passes over a weir and then travels through a Parshall
flume for effluent metering before being combined with the CST flow for discharge to the
storm channel.
The clarified effluent from the CST and OD processes is disinfected using an automated
chlorine delivery system consisting of bulk sodium hypochlorite storage tanks, a vacuum
regulator, and a submersible mixer/ejector. Hypochlorite delivery is paced on a chlorine
residual monitored just downstream of the dosing point. The objective is to maintain a set
point residual in the CCB. The chlorinated effluent travels through the serpentine contact
chamber and overtops a weir where sodium bisulfite is added to remove any remaining
residual chlorine. The bisulfite is automatically dosed based on a target residual and paced
on effluent flow rate.
To maintain the proper solids, as the solids concentration builds in the CST tanks, a portion of
the settled sludge is removed from the bottom of the clarifiers via sludge wasting pumps
which pump the sludge to the lined/unlined drying beds on the south end of the plant. Drying
beds are lined with an impervious hard, or soil-cement surface; there are eight cement-lined
beds and fourteen soil-cement drying beds at the south side of the WWTP. Solids are dried
through a combination of evaporation and draw-off, or decant, of supernatant, which is
returned to WWTP’s headworks. The unlined beds are rotated when full and the solids are
sun and air dried. Then they are disked in place (incorporated into the soil) (as per the
approval of the EPA). The lined beds are rotated when full and the solids are sun and air
dried. Then they are collected to a stockpile bed, further dried and disposed of by an
approved solids disposal hauler.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters

===PLANNED CHANGES===

