[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides sewerage service to the City of Brawley
(service to a population of approximately 27,000). The wastewater treatment plant has a
treatment capacity of 5.9 MGD and is located in the SW ¼ of Section 15, T13S, R14E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The WWTP consists of three raw water lift stations, a headworks facility, three wave oxidation
Biolac® activated sludge treatment units equipped with diffusers that provide extended
aeration, three secondary clarifiers, an activated sludge pumping station, an ultraviolet
disinfection system, and solar greenhouse sludge drying structures.
Raw wastewater is directed through the plant headworks, which consists of a step screen,
compactor, vortex grit pump, and a grit separator. Wastewater receives extended aeration
through the Biolac® activated sludge treatment system which became operational in
December 2011. The Discharger converted one of the inactive primary clarifiers into a sludge
thickening unit and the other inactive primary clarifier into a sludge holding tank. Wasted
activated sludge is thickened in a sludge thickening unit, dewatered in a centrifuge sludge
dewatering unit, and then dried in two solar greenhouse sludge drying structures. The WWTP
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 2/12/14) F-4
[Page 74]
CITY OF BRAWLEY ORDER R7-2015-0004
CITY OF BRAWLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104523
produces Class A biosolids. The Biolac® process operates without primary treatment;
therefore, no primary sludge is produced during the treatment process. The Discharger is
currently developing a Biosolids Management Plan.
The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater collection system, which provides
conveyance of raw wastewater to the treatment facility. The collection system contains both
combined and separate sanitary sewer lines.
The Discharger indicated on U.S. EPA Form 2A, there is currently only one significant
industrial user (Pioneers

===PLANNED CHANGES===

