[Page 3]
4. On October 25, 2021, the Discharger submitted an application and Report of
Waste Discharge (ROWD) to the Regional Water Board, requesting the WDRs be
updated to reflect existing and proposed changes to the WWTP. The recent and
proposed changes consist of: (1) Removing the existing channel grinder and four
influent pumps and installing four 6-inch Vaughn submersible chopper pumps to
better treat solids in the waste stream; (2) installing an odor control system at the
influent pump station and headworks areas to better control nuisance odors; (3)
adding three additional percolation ponds to accommodate the increase in flow
rates associated with the installation of sewer pipelines; and (4) installation of a
[Page 4]
ORDER R7-2022-0008 2
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
cloth filter unit to reduce the amount of settleable solids reaching the percolation
ponds, thereby minimizing the clogging of the soils underlying the percolation
ponds.
5. This Order updates the WDRs to comply with current laws and regulations
applicable to the discharge and includes the operational changes requested by the
Discharger.
Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
6. The WWTP consists of preliminary, primary, and secondary treatment, and solids
and effluent disposal systems. Including the proposed modifications, the
preliminary treatment system consists of four chopper pumps, an odor control
system, one channel auger, one grit vortex inducer, two grit pumps, and two grit
classifiers. Primary and secondary treatment units consist of five extended
aeration units, five secondary clarifiers, one cloth filter, and eight
evaporation/percolation ponds. The WWTP components that are used for
treatment are described below and the Process Flow Diagram for the WWTP is
shown in Attachment C.
7. Untreated wastewater flows from the influent pump station to the preliminary
treatment system, Wastewater from the preliminary treatment system gravity
flows to one or more of the five extended aeration units for primary and
secondary treatment. Two of the extended aeration units have treatment
capacities of 0.26 MGD each, the third has a treatment capacity of 0.42 MGD,
and the remaining two have treatment capacities of 0.75 MGD each. Effluent
from the extended aeration units then gravity flows to the secondary clarifiers and
then either through the cloth filter to the evaporation/percolation ponds or directly
to the evaporation/percolation ponds for disposal.
8. Scum and sludge from the five secondary clarifiers are pumped to a 2.0-meter
skid mounted belt filter press. The scum, sludge, grit, and screenings are loaded
into trailers daily and hauled offsite by a private contractor. The trailers are
hauled offsite for advanced treatment including lime stabilization and “Class A”
standards. (See 40 C.F.R. part 503.) For emergency operation only, eleven
asphalt bottom sludge drying beds are also available for service.
[Page 5]
ORDER R7-2022-0008 3
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
9. The Discharger’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from January 2018 through June
2021 characterize the WWTP effluent as follows:
Table 1. Effluent Characterization
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 1.91 2.13 1.75
20o C BOD 1 mg/L2 18.5 43 8.5
5

[Page 7]
23. The discharge authorized by this Order, except for discharges of residual sludge
and solid waste, are exempt from the solid waste requirements of California Code
of Regulations, title 27, section 20005 et seq. This exemption is based on section
20090, subdivisions (a) and (b) of title 27 of the California Code of Regulations,
which provides that discharges of domestic sewage or wastewater to land,
5 The Basin Plan was adopted on November 17, 1993 and most recently amended on January 8, 2019.
[Page 8]
ORDER R7-2022-0008 6
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
including but not limited to evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface
leach fields are not subject to the requirements of title 27 if the following exemption
conditions are met:
a. The applicable regional water board has issued WDRs, reclamation
requirements, or waived such issuance;
b. The discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control
plan; and
c. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to chapter 11,
division 4.5, title 22 of the Californi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

