[Page 71]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately
76,000 located in the City of Indio, portions of the City of Coachella and Riverside County. The
wastewater treatment plant has a treatment capacity of 13.5 MGD and is located in Section 19,
T5S, R8E, SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The wastewater treatment plant consists of three separate treatment systems: 1) an activated
sludge treatment system, 2) an oxidation pond system, and 3) a wetlands system. The current
total design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant is 13.5 MGD.
Influent enters the main influent pumping station and is screened through mechanical bar
screens. Screened influent flow can be directed to the grit chamber or directed to the primary
clarifiers. Flow is then apportioned between the activated sludge system and the oxidation
pond system and the wetlands.
The design capacity of the activated sludge treatment system is 10 MGD. The activated
sludge treatment system consists of anoxic selectors, aeration basins, secondary clarifiers,
and a chlorine contact chamber.
The design capacity of the oxidation pond system is 2.5 MGD. The oxidation pond system
consists of two oxidation ponds and two cells. The flow pattern is usually through the pond
system in a series starting with Pond 2 then into the two cells in series and then into Pond 3.
However, when the two cells are being used for collection and treatment of waste activated
sludge, the two cells commonly are isolated and flow runs from Pond 2 directly to Pond 3.
The design capacity of the wetlands treatment system is 1.0 MGD. The wetlands treatment
system is designed to treat primary effluent wastewater. The wetlands treatment system
consists of a circular clarifier and three wetland cells. The wetlands can receive influent from
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 2/12/14) F-4
[Page 72]
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2015-0002
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104477
the aerated grit chamber via the wetlands influent pump station or from the oxidation pond
system - from the east end of Pond 3 or from either cell.
Treated effluent from each treatment system (i.e., activated sludge and oxidation
ponds/wetlands system) is chlorinated in separate chlorine contact tanks noting that the flow
from the pond and the wetlands system is combined prior to entering its chlorine contact
chamber. The chlorinated effluent from each chlorine contact tank is then combined and
dechlorinated with the addition of sodium bisulfite prior to discharge from Discharge Point
001C to the Coachella Valley Storm Water Channel.
Screenings and grit removal from the influent wastewater is achieved through the use of
mechanical bar screens located after the influent pumping station are sent to a grinder,
washed, and then compacted and collected in a transportable dumpster prior to final disposal.
Following screening, grit is removed from the influent wastewater, dewatered, air-dried and
placed in a transportable dumpster with screenings. Screenings and grit collected in the
dumpster are hauled to a landfill approximately every two weeks.
Excess solids from the activated sludge treatment system are pumped to either one of the two
(oxidation system) cells or oxidation Pond No. 2 for stabilization. Primary sludge from the
primary clarifiers is pumped to the anaerobic digester, which became operational in
December 2013. Solids from the digester and oxidation pond system are pumped to the belt
presses for dewatering. Dewatered solids are then placed in the onsite storage/drying beds
for further moisture reduction prior to final disposal. Sludge is typically removed from the
Facility site every 12 to 18 months, typically meets class A or class B biosolids quality, and is
transported to Arizona for land application by a contracted sludge disposal company.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33º 42’ 59” North and
Longitude 116º 11’ 43” West, to the Coachella Valley Storm Water Channel. The permitted
maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, which is 13.5 MGD. The discharge consists of disinfected secondary treated
wastewater.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in the existing Order R7-2010-0019 for discharges from the
activated sludge treatment system through Discharge Point 001 (Monitoring Location EFF-
001A) and representative monitoring data from the term of the previous Order are as follows
in Table F-2:
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data (Activated Sludge)
Monitoring Data
Effluent Limitation
(From July 2010 – November 2014)
Highest Highest
Parameter Units Highest
Average Average Maximum Average Average
Daily
Monthly Weekly Daily Monthly Weekly
Discharge
Discharge Discharge
Flow MGD 10.0 -- -- 5.941 -- --
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 2/12/14) F-5
[Page 73]
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2015-0002
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATME

===PLANNED CHANGES===

