[Page 81]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides sewerage service to the City of Holtville
(service to a population of approximately 5,600). The wastewater treatment plant has a
treatment capacity of 0.85 MGD and is located in SW ¼ of Section 21, T15S, R15E,
SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The total design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant is 0.85 MGD. The current
wastewater treatment plant consists of an grit chamber, three circular primary clarifiers
operated in parallel, a trickling filter, three secondary clarifiers operated in parallel,
effluent flow meter, three sand filters, an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system, an aerobic
digester, and three sludge drying beds. The Discharger accepts septic tank and
portable waste and introduces the waste prior to primary treatment.
The City’s collection system includes two pump stations that direct flow to a 15-inch
diameter sewer main trunk line. Wastewater is conveyed via two pump stations within
the City limits and gravity flow to the WWTP. Following the grit chambers, wastewater
is directed to a distribution box that splits flow to a 28-feet diameter circular clarifier and
another distribution box that splits the flow to two 18-feet diameter circular clarifiers.
Flow is directed to a trickling filter equipped with 6- to 8-feet diameter rock media
(original media since the WWTP has been operating). The trickling filter is equipped
with two recirculating pumps, capable of handling 700,000 gallons per day (gpd) flow.
Flow from the trickling filter is directed through a distribution box that channels
wastewater to three secondary clarifiers (two 18-feet diameter circular secondary
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 82]
CITY OF HOLTVILLE ORDER R7-2011-0020
CITY OF HOLTVILLE MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104361
clarifiers and one 38-feet diameter circular secondary clarifier). Following treatment in
the secondary clarifiers, flow is sent through a distribution box, and flows via gravity to
the secondary effluent pump station. A 15-HP pump directs wastewater to three sand-
media filters. Water is pumped in, it enters at the top of the filter, flows down through
radial diffusers, and the water works its way back up through the filter. Sand filters
produce two discharges: reject water flows out the top of the sand filter and treated
wastewater is channeled to the UV disinfection system. The UV disinfection unit is
comprised of two banks of modules (lamps), each having three modules, for a total of
six modules. Following treatment via UV disinfection, effluent is discharged through
Discharge Point 001.
Sludge collected from the primary and secondary clarifiers is treated at an aerobic
digester. The digester consists of four rectangular Imhoff tanks each of which is 20 feet
long, 13 feet wide, and 21.8 feet deep, with a volume of 22,672 cubic feet. From the
aerobic digester chamber, thickened sludge is removed to three sludge drying beds for
drying. The total area of the drying beds is approximately 7,560 square feet. Each
drying bed is 4 feet deep, 35 feet wide, and 72 feet long. Sludge drying beds are
equipped with sand filters and perforated underdrains. Leachate collected from the
drying beds is pumped back to the plant headworks for processing. After drying, the
sludge is hauled off-site to a farm in Arizona.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the
Pear Drain. From the Pear Drain, effluent flows approximately 180 yards prior to
entering Alamo River, a water of the United States.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32º 49’ 48” North
an

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has indicated there will be upgrades to the WWTP during this permit
term, to address the requirements of Cease and Desist Order (CDO) R7-2009-0061 and
amending CDO R7-2011-0016. The Discharger noted the design capacity will remain at
0.85 MGD. Plans to upgrade the headworks include replacement of the headworks unit
and installation of a new raking unit. At the time the Regional Water Board prepared
this draft permit renewal, the City had not yet submitted a proposal for upgrades to the
WWTP; a preliminary engineering study is in progress, to evaluate WWTP upgrade
options and subsequently propose an upgrade project.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the propo