[Page 67]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
(Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 43,200 located in the City of El
Centro. The wastewater treatment plant has a treatment capacity of 8.0 MGD and is located in
Section 39 T15S, R13E SBB&M.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
Wastewater from the community is pumped from seven lift stations to a final lift station from
which it is pumped to preliminary treatment where solids are removed by an automatic
bar screen. Manual injection of ferric chloride and polymer was added to the process at
the main lift station in April 2004 in order to remove metals. Wastewater is then directed
through the plant’s primary clarifiers. Secondary treatment is achieved through
biological treatment via six aeration basins and secondary clarification through four final
clarifiers. The wastewater is then disinfected using ultraviolet (UV) light before being
discharged to the Central Main Drain.
Primary sludge generated from the primary clarifiers is pumped to anaerobic digesters.
Secondary sludge generated from the secondary clarifiers is processed through a
gravity belt thickener, with the de-watered sludge sent to the anaerobic digesters.
Following anaerobic digestion, sludge is directed through a belt press, dried to
approximately 90 percent solids in drying beds and then land-applied at locations in
Arizona. The Facility maintains an emergency storage basin for use during cleaning of
the UV disinfection channel or plant malfunction. The emergency storage basin can be
pumped to the primary clarifiers if necessary, but is typically allowed to evaporate.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the
Central Main Drain (beneath La Brucherie Street), a tributary to the Alamo River, a
water of the United States.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (VERSION 7/10/13) F-4
[Page 68]
CITY OF EL CENTRO ORDER R7-2014-0002
EL CENTRO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104426
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final eff

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has indicated that earthquake damage from the 2010 Easter Earthquake still
remains to be repaired. Funding for Facility upgrades have been approved by the California
Emergency Management Agency (CEMA). The project is to replace the baffles in the Primary
Clarifiers, replace the outer wall of the North Primary Clarifier, replace the walkway between
Aeration Basins #1 and #2 (south end of the basins), replace the center column of Secondary
Clarifier #3 (North East), and replace the Algae Sweep on Secondary Clarifier #2 (North
West). The project is scheduled to be completed by Summer 2014.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This