[Page 0]
4. The WDRs are being updated due to plant operation modifications made by the
Discharger. The WWTF has been modified so that the tertiary treatment sand filter is no
longer part of the treatment process and tertiary treated wastewater can no longer be
produced. The tertiary treatment sand filter has not been used in approximately eight
years and cannot be operated without significant rehabilitation. Additionally, the
engineered wetlands described as part of the treatment process have been removed from
operation and are no longer part of the treatment process. The Discharger intends to use
one of the de-commissioned wetland basins as a sludge drying basin.
5. The Facility and reuse of its disinfected secondary-23 treated recycled water are currently
regulated by Board Order R7-2012-0002, adopted by Colorado River Basin Water Board
on June 21, 2012.
[Page 1]
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016-0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
6. MCAGCC is located in south-central San Bernardino County, approximately five (5)
miles north of the City of Twentynine Palms as shown on Attachment A, Location and
Vicinity Map, incorporated herein and made part of this Board Order by reference.
7. The Facility is assigned California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) number CW-
269589; Waste Discharger Identification (WDID) number 7A360702011, and GeoTracker
Global ID number WDR100037408. Attachment B, incorporated herein and made part of
this Board Order by reference, illustrates the WWTF site layout.
Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
8. Wastewater influent enters the plant headworks building via a 20-inch sanitary sewer. The
wastewater flow is split into two channels, one for bypass (normally closed) and the other
with an automatic bar screen and compactor. The bar screen deposits the screenings into
a roll-off dumpster that is taken to the Combat Center Landfill for disposal regularly.
Wastewater then flows through a 24-inch Palmer Bowlus flume for flow measurement. A
flow meter display is housed outside the headworks building in a steel cabinet. The
headworks building has an active ventilation system that replaces the air in the room
several times an hour and pushes the air through a biological air filter for odor removal.
The odor filter consists of wood chips that are kept moist with recycled water.
9. From the flow meter, wastewater is routed to Pond 1. Pond 1 is a 13-acre, 5-foot deep
pond, with a 2.5-acre front-end, 13-foot deep fermentation pit that has a designed
hydraulic residence time of over 3 days. Wastewater enters the pond at the end with the
fermentation pit. Solids settle out in the fermentation pit and the wastewater continues to
flow through the rest of the pond. The fermentation pit allows for the accumulation and
storage of biosolids in an anaerobic environment. Anaerobic bacteria decompose and
stabilize the biosolids and release methane, hydrogen sulfide, and other volatile organics.
Digestion gases are broken down in the aerobic water layer at the top of the pond where
oxygen concentration is enhanced by mechanical aeration.
10. Wastewater from the fermentation pit is spread across the width of Pond 1 via a flow
distribution pipe and then flows longitudinally through the pond. Four mechanical aerators
provide oxygen to the top layer of the pond. The remainder of Pond 1 outside the
fermentation pit provides secondary biological treatment. The pond is designed to remove
approximately 75 percent of the influent Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) by rapid
growth of algae and concurrent production of oxygen, oxidation of organics, ammonia
removal, and heavy metals removal. The other ponds provide extended secondary
treatment and act as effluent polishing systems.
11. Effluent from Pond 1 is channeled to Pond A through a flow control structure that controls
the water level in Pond 1. The flow control structure has a permanent weir that controls
the water level in Pond 1 such that 2 feet of freeboard is maintained. Under normal
operating conditions, effluent flows over the weir to Pond A. Slide gates located within this
structure allow operators to temporarily divert some or all of the flow to Pond B for storage.
In the event of excessively high water levels at Ponds 1 and A, an overflow also channels
water to Pond B.
12. Pond A is approximately 5 feet deep with a surface area of approximately 20 acres. The
design detention time is approximately 18 days. Pond A (and Pond B when used)
provides only limited treatment; its primary purpose is settlement of algae. When there is
2
[Page 2]
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016-0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
a need to store more water than Ponds 1, A, and B can accommodate, water can be
pumped to Ponds C and D. Ponds C and D are used as additional storage when
wastewater influent exceeds recycled water demand. The water from these ponds is
pumped back to Pond A for inclusion in the treatment process.
13. Effluent from Pond A is sent to the clarifier influent pump station wet well via a 20-inch
sewer line. The clarifier influent pumps then supply the water to three clarifiers. All three
clarifiers are connected and can be run individually or in parallel. Polyaluminum chloride
(PAC) is added as a coagulant at the clarifiers. The sludge from the clarifiers is withdrawn
using three sludge pumps and sent back to the fermentation pit in Pond 1 for digestion and
treatment. The clarifier effluent is pumped by three filter influent pumps through the (non-
operational) Lamella filters into the filter effluent pump Station wet well.
14. Chlorine is generated on-site by a hypochlorite generation and injection system that
produces the chlorine equivalent of 150 pounds per day of 0.8-percent sodium
hypochlorite (NaClO). The 0.8-percent NaClO is stored on-site in a 380-gallon
polyethyle

===PLANNED CHANGES===

