[Page 60]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal system (the
Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 40,351 located in the City of Calexico.
The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant which is 4.3 million gallons per day (MGD) and is located in the NW ¼ of the SW ¼
of Section 14, T17S, R14E, SBB&M. The discharge consists of disinfected secondary treated
wastewater.
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment System
The Facility design capacity is 4.3 MGD. The Facility provides secondary treatment through two
treatment trains: an activated sludge treatment system with a design capacity of 2.5 MGD,
referred to as Plant #1, and an aerated lagoon treatment system with a design capacity of 1.8
MGD, referred to as Plant #2. Wastewater is received and screened at the headworks.
Afterwards, the wastewater is sent to stations #1 and #2 and pumped to two circular clarifiers,
which are operated in parallel.
Plant #1 was originally constructed in 1967 and upgraded in 1974, 1991, and 1995. Plant #1
provides extended aeration activated sludge biological treatment through three concrete-lined
aeration basins fitted with surface aerators operated in parallel. Three circular secondary
clarifiers remove solids after aeration. Return sludge from the clarifiers is directed to the return
activated sludge lift station and combines with raw wastewater to maintain sufficient levels of
biomass in the treatment system.
Plant #2 was constructed in 1991 and upgraded in 1994. Plant #2 consists of a set of four
lagoons operated in series. Each treatment lagoon has an approximate volume of 3 million
gallons and is equipped with high-speed floating aerators.
Secondary effluent from both treatment systems is combined for disinfection by an ultraviolet
(UV) disinfection system prior to discharge to the New River.
Sludge generated from the primary clarifiers is pumped to two anaerobic digesters for
stabilization, normally operated in series. Secondary sludge generated from the two of the three
secondary clarifiers from Plant #1 is also pumped to the anaerobic digesters for stabilization.
Secondary sludge from clarifier #3 is sent to Plant #2 and is thickened by dissolved air flotation
prior to being pumped to the digesters. Stabilized primary and secondary sludge is discharged
from the two anaerobic digesters to fourteen sludge drying beds. Digested sludge is dried in
the sludge drying beds prior to removal and eventual land application in Yuma, Arizona.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to the New River, a water of the United
States.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 61]
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32° 40’ 17” North and
Longitude 115° 30’ 45” West, to the New River. The permitted ma

===PLANNED CHANGES===

