[Page 71]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) that provides sewerage service to the Heber Public Utilities District,
which has a service population of approximately 3,600. The wastewater treatment plant
has a treatment (design) capacity of 1.2 million gallons per day (MGD) and is located in
the NE ¼ of Section 28, T16S, R14E, SBB&M18.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The current total design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant is 1.2 MGD. The
wastewater treatment plant consists of influent screening, secondary treatment (i.e.,
oxidation ditches and an integrated fixed-film activated sludge process [IFAS]
operated in parallel), secondary clarification, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Solids treatment consists of thickening, digestion, and dewatering.
Influent to the Facility undergoes preliminary treatment comprising two in-channel
comminutors and one Parshall Flume with an ultra-sonic flow meter. An influent
pump station consisting of three non-clog centrifugal pumps equipped with a
pressure transmitter/float control system transfer the wastewater to the headworks
consisting of two parallel rotary drum screens, screening washer units, vortex grit
trap, and a grit classifier. Flow from the headworks is sent to the splitter box which
distributes wastewater to the secondary treatment system.
The secondary treatment system consists of two oxidation ditches (each with design
capacity of 0.20 MGD) and an integrated fixed film and activated sludge (IFAS)
system using STM-aerators™ with a design capacity of 0.80 MGD. The IFAS system
is composed of two anoxic basins and two STM-aerators™ per train. The two
oxidation ditches and the IFAS unit are operated in parallel. Treated wastewater
from the secondary treatment units is then directed to two secondary clarifiers.
Clarified effluent is disinfected using UV disinfection prior to discharge to the
receiving water. the Central Drain 3-D No. 1, an Imperial Valley Drain and tributary
to the Alamo River, a water of the United States.
In addition to the liquid treatment train, the Facility includes an emergency storage
pond. In the event that influent flows to the Facility exceed the treatment capacity of
its unit processes (e.g., in the event of a major storm event), operators have the
option to route excess influent flow to an earthen, unlined emergency holding basin
located on-site. Discharges to the emergency basin are currently regulated by
Board Order R7-2013-0007, waste discharge requirements for Heber PUD WWTP
emergency standby basin.
18 San Bernardino Base & Meridian
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 72]
HEBER PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT ORDER R7-2022-0007
MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104370
Solids collected during the treatment process are directed to a pre-thickener,
followed by two aerobic digesters and a post-thickener. Thickened sludge is
dewatered using a cyclone solids-liquids separator and 13 drying beds. Treated
sludge is shipped off-site to South Yuma County Landfill located in Yuma, AZ for
final disposal.
2.B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32° 44’ 15”
North and Longitude 115° 31’ 27” West, to the Central Drain 3 – No. 1, tributary to
the Alamo River. The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, which is 1.2 MGD. The discharge
consists of secondary treated wastewater.
2.C. Summary of Previous Requirements and Self-Monitoring (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R7-2016-0006 for discharges from Discharge
Point 001 (Monitoring Location EFF-001) and representative monitoring data from
the term of the that order are as follows in Table F-2:
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data
Highest Highest
High

===PLANNED CHANGES===

