[Page 0]
4. The Order includes in the Fact Sheet (Attachment F) details regarding the
Discharger's plans to expand the Facility and included a list of additions of new
treatment processes and/or the upgrade of existing ones. The Facility expansion
was completed in late 2017 (the Notice of Completion was filed on January 19, 2018)
and WRCRWA has been operating all of its new equipment and facilities since that
time. The new treatment process additions and/or upgrades are listed as follows:
• Headworks: Three (3) new¼" fine screens, each with capacity of 17.5 mgd,
with associated wash presses were installed. A new screening channel and
[Page 1]
12
Order No. RS-2019-0066, Amending Order No. RS-2015-0013 Page
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority December 6, 2019
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant
bypass channel was added to the two existing channels. The screens were
installed in the channels with covers and integral odor control for headworks
process. Minor changes were made to the grit trap to improve hydraulic
conditions.
• Equalization Tank: A new 2.2 million gallon (180' x 120' x 15') concrete
equalization tank was installed near the new primary clarifiers.
• Primary Treatment: Two (2) new 95' diameter primary clarifiers, including a
splitter box, and a primary sludge pump station with two (2) sludge pumps were
installed. The pumps are capable of 150gpm at 30' of Total Design Head (TOH)
and pump the primary sludge directly to the digesters. The primary clarifiers are
now completely covered. Additionally, a new biofilter system was installed to
control odors.
• Biological Treatment: A second activated sludge basin was also constructed
with a 600,000 gallon anoxic zone and a 1,290,000 gallon aerobic zone. The
anoxic zone uses six eductor tube mixers. The aerobic zone uses removable
diffuser grid assemblies. Air is supplied by two (1 duty/1 redundant) new
blower units, which also provide air for the eductor tubes. The new blowers
were installed in the blower building constructed as part of the earlier Aeration
Upgrade Project. The oxidation ditch has eight axial propeller-type mixers to
maintain flow velocity and promote mixed liquor suspension. The existing
aerator/mixers in the existing ditch were replaced with more efficient propeller
mixers. One (1) 130' diameter secondary clarifier was added, including a
splitter box.
• Tertiary Treatment and Disinfection: Four (4) disc filters utilizing a cloth media
were installed. A new chlorine contact basin (CCB) with 4 trains was also built
with chlorine storage tanks and a chemical feed and monitoring system along
with a sodium bisulfite storage tank, feed and dechlorination monitoring
system. The tertiary system has a hydraulic capacity of up to 35 Million
Gallons per Day (MGD) for peak wet weather flows. A tracer study was
performed on the CCB's in September 2017.
• Solids Handling: Two disk thickeners were installed to provide Waste Activated
Sludge (WAS) thickening. A building was constructed to house both thickeners
adjacent to the existing solids handling building. The dewatering process was
upgraded by replacing the three (3) existing centrifuges with new, higher
capacity, more efficient, centrifuges. The aerobic digesters were converted to
anaerobic digesters by installing digester covers, a pump mixing system,
heating and biogas equipment. This includes two (2) heat exchangers, two (2)
[Page 2]
13
Order No. RB-2019-0066, Amending Order No. RB-2015-0013 Page
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority December 6, 2019
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant
boilers, and all necessary piping, pumps, flame and sediment traps, and flare.
A Concrete Masonry Unit (CMU) building was constructed to house heating
equipment. In anticipation of future capacity needs and uncertain future
operating conditions, infrastructure provisions were included to allow for the
future construction of a third digester. Those provisions include expanding the
CMU building to accommodate future digester equipment, yard piping to the
digester building and some site improvements. Solar drying beds were added
to the facility, including floor heating using excess methane gas, and an odor
control system.
• Recycled Water Facilities: It is planned for the recycled water produced at the
Plant to be used by the member agencies. In order to fully utilize this
resource, WRCRWA will be constructing additional recycled water distribution
facilities. The existing flow equalization tank will be converted into a recycled
water storage tank. The equalization tank water surface was covered with
"Bird Balls" to reduce the potential for algae growth. This tank will serve as a
wet well for the new recycled water pump station. Additionally, a new utility
water pump station was constructed so that recycled water can be used at the
treatment plant as utility water serving various purposes around the plant.
• Electrical and SCADA Systems: As part of the Facility Expansion Project,
several upgrades/modifications were made to the electrical and the
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems.
5. The State Water Resources Control Board's Division of Drinking Water (SWRCB's
DOW) issued a letter dated December 13, 2017 addressed to the Santa Ana Water
Board that memorialized their approval of the results of the tracer study conducted on
the Facility's new chlorine contact basin. Additionally, DOW reviewed and approved
a Title 22 Engineering report, dated June 2018, submitted by the Discharger for the
Facility's new tertiary treatment system and DOW issued an approval letter dated
August 2018 that was addressed to the Santa Ana Water Board.
6. On April 9, 2019 WRCRWA submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) that
included details regarding the treatment improvements that were made to the Facility
and requested an amendment of the Order to incorporate the treatment process
changes and add pertinent chlorine disinfection performance requirement and final
effluent limits. It is appropriate to amend the Order to update the description of the
treatment processes, increase the design capacity of the secondary treatment to 14
MGD, and add the maximum daily effluent limit for Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (that
was erroneously omitted), chlorine residual effluent limits, and applicable chlorine
disinfection process performance requirements.
7. In accordance with Water Code Section 13389, amending the waste discharge
requirements for this discharge is exempt from those provisions of the California
[Page 3]
Order No. RB-2019-0066, Amending Order No. RB-2015-0013 Page 14
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority December 6, 2019
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant

===PLANNED CHANGES===

