[Page 4]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Santa Ana Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Background: El Taro Water District (hereinafter Discharger or ETWD) owns and
operates a sanitary sewer collection system, a Water Recycling Plant (hereinafter, the
Facility), and a recycled water distribution system. ETWD's service area includes
portions the Cities of Lake Forest, Laguna Hills, Aliso Viejo, Mission Viejo, and all of the
City of Laguna Woods. The Discharger owns the Facility and is currently discharging
from the Facility pursuant to waste discharge and producer/user water reclamation
requirements, Order No. 94-3. Order 94-3 was issued to the South Orange County
Reclamation Authority (SOCRA, predecessor to South Orange County Wastewater
Authority, SOCWA). ETWD is a member of SOCWA. ETWD's service area extends into
the San Diego and the Santa Ana Regional Water Board jurisdictions. The Santa Ana
Water Board issued Order No. 94-3 to regulate tertiary treated recycled water discharges
within the Santa Ana Region. ETWD is proposing to reclaim, and distribute up to 4 million
gallon per day (mgd) of tertiary treated disinfected wastewater within its service area.
When reclaimed water demand is low, ETWD proposes to discharge up to 6 mgd of
secondary treated un-disinfected wastewater through SOCWA's Aliso Creek ocean
outfall under the San Diego Regional Water Board's Order No. R9-2012-0013, NPDES
No. CA01 07611, issued to SOCWA.
The Discharger recently completed improvements to the treatment capabilities of the
Facility by constructing a new tertiary treatment and recycled water distribution system
[Page 5]
Order No. RS-2015-0023 Page 6 of 18
El Toro Water District
Water Recycling Plant
that consists of two rotating-disk cloth-media filters, tertiary effluent transfer pumps, a
recycled water storage tank with integrated chlorine contact basin (dual purpose), a
recycled water pump station, an alum/poly blend storage and feed station, and
approximately 19 miles of pipelines for distribution of recycled water, among other
improvements. Although the Discharger has designed the tertiary treatment system to
produce up to 4.0 mgd of tertiary-2.2 recycled water, initially, the installed tertiary
treatment capacity is 3.7 mgd and, in the future, the tertiary treatment capacity can be
expanded to 4

[Page 5]
Management Zone.
B. Facility Description: The Discharger owns and operates the Water Recycling Plant and
its wastewater treatment processes include: preliminary treatment that consist of influent
flow metering, mechanical bar-screening, aerated grit chamber, and fine screening (rota
strainers); influent flow equalization; odor control with inorganic media filter beds;
secondary treatment that consists of an activated sludge process with limited nutrient
removal (nitrification/denitrification) and one secondary effluent holding pond; tertiary
treatment system that uses rotating-disk cloth filters and disinfection with chlorine
(chlorine contact basin). The secondary effluent holding pond covers approximately 2.5
acres and is used to store, temporarily, secondary effluent under emergency conditions
when the Facility is not able to dispose of the secondary effluent through the ocean
outfall. Normally, the secondary effluent stored in the holding pond is gravity fed to the
wet-well of the ocean outfall pump station. The Facility is designed to treat up to 6.0 mgd
of wastewater to secondary treatment standards and up to 4.0 mgd of tertiary-2.2
recycled water. Also, the Discharger has constructed a recycled water distribution
system composed of a storage tank, pump station, and approximately 19 miles of
pipeline. Attachment 8 is a location and vicinity map for this facility. Attachment C is a
flow schematic of the treatment systems.
C. Legal Authorities: This Order serves as Waste Discharge Re

[Page 7]
2. TDS Limitations: The 12-month flow weighted running average total dissolved solids
concentration of the discharge at Discharge Point 001 shall not exceed the 910 mg/1
unless: ·
(1) The Discharger demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Water Board's
Executive Officer that:
(a) Discharges in excess of the TDS limits are due to the quality of water supply
sources utilized in the Discharger's service area, and that all reasonable steps, as
[Page 8]
Order No. RB-2015-0023 Page 9 of 18
El Toro Water District
Water Recycling Plant
agreed upon by the Executive Officer, have been taken to ensure that the best
quality supplies are obtained and utilized in the Discharger's service area; and/or
(b) Discharges in excess of the TDS limits are due to chemical additions in the
treatment process needed to meet waste discharge requirements, and the
Discharger has taken all steps to optimize chemical additions so as to minimize
the increases; and
(2) The Discharger implements an acceptable plan to offset discharges in excess of
the TDS limits.
3. Recycled Water Specifications: The recycled water shall all times be adequately
oxidized disinfected tertiary treated recycled water, which is a filtered and
subsequently disinfected wastewater that meets the following limitations:
(1) Turbidity of the filter

===PLANNED CHANGES===

