[Page 3]
10. However, during a large rain storm event that occurred during February 2017,
OCSD’s WWTPs experienced very high influent peak flows that significantly
stressed the hydraulic capacity of their headworks; which could have been
alleviated by reducing the raw sewage influent flow received from controllable
sources such as IRWD’s sanitary sewer system. As a result, as another large
rain storm event had been forecasted for the Orange County area during
February 2017 and to avoid a similar headworks’ hydraulic overload episode
OCSD staff requested that IRWD temporarily cease sending raw sewage flows,
normally treated at the Michelson WRP, to OCSD’s WWTPs. At the time, IRWD
was running short of recycled water storage capacity, recycled water demand
was very low, and could only discharge less than half of their recycled water
flow through OCSD’s Ocean outfall. Although the magnitude of the for

[Page 6]
4. Order No. R8-2015-0024, Findings, page 6, replace Section II.B., as follows:
B. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the MWRP and its
wastewater treatment systems consist of preliminary, primary, secondary, and
tertiary treatment. Recycled water is directly delivered from Discharge Point
001 (DP-001) to customers for irrigation and other recycled water reuse,
except for indirect or direct potable water reuse. Recycled water from MWRP
is discharged through DP-003, DP-004 and DP-007 to Rattlesnake Reservoir,
Sand Canyon Reservoir, and Syphon Reservoir respectively, for storage and
subsequent distribution. These three reservoirs are considered waters of the
United States. Under emergency conditions, the Discharger may discharge
stormwater or tertiary treated effluent through Discharge Point Storm-007 to
Reach 1 of San Diego Creek and stormwater, through Discharge Point Storm-
008, to San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh; which are tributary to Newport Bay.
The recycled water use areas overlie the Irvine Groundwater Management
Zone and the San Diego Regional Water Board’s Aliso Creek Hydrologic Sub-
area. Also, recycled water can be routed to the Orange County Sanitation
District (OCSD) for disposal through their ocean outfall and/or Orange County
Water District’s (OCWD) Green Acres Project’s (GAP’s) recycled water
distribution system. Both OCSD’s ocean outfall discharge and OCWD’s GAP
are regulated by this Regional Water Board under separate permits.
Because of high groundwater elevation at the MWRP site, dewatering of the
shallow groundwater zone is necessary to protect in-ground facilities. The
area is dewatered through a network of shallow zone wells with two separate
discharge points. These discharge points discharge either into Reach 1 of
San Diego Creek or into the San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh. Reach 1 of San
Diego Creek and San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh are tributaries to San Diego
Creek and waters of the U.S. Order No. R8-2007-0003 also regulated the
discharges from these dewatering wells; however, this Order does not regulate
[Page 7]
Order No. R8-2018-0070, Amending Order No. R8-2015-0024
Michelson and Los Alisos Water Recycling Plants
Irvine Ranch Water District Page 8 of 38
the groundwater dewatering discharges from the MWRP (see Attachment F of
this Order for details).
Also, the Discharger owns and operates the LAWRP and its wastewater
treatment processes include preliminary, secondary, and tertiary treatment.
Furthermore, the Discharger distributes from LAWRP Tertiary-2.2 recycled
water, which is produced at the Facilities, through DP-008 to use areas located
within the boundaries of this Regional Water Board and the San Diego
Regional Water Board, in the City of Lake Forest, for irrigation and other
recycled water reuse, except groundwater rec

[Page 21]
30. Attachment F, Permit Information, page F-4, replace Table 1, as follows:
Table 1. Facility Information
WDID 8 302006002
Discharger/Operator Irvine Ranch Water District
Names of Facilities Michelson Water Recycling Plant Los Alisos Water Recycling Plant
3512 Michelson Drive 22312 Muirlands Boulevard
Addresses Irvine, CA 92612 Lake Forest, CA 92630
Orange County
Facility Contact, Title and
Gaspar Garza, Operations Manager, Phone: (949) 453-5826
Phone
Authorized Person to Sign
Jose Zepeda, Director of Recycling Operations, Phone: (949) 453-5572
and Submit Reports
Mailing Address 15600 Sand Canyon Avenue, Irvine, CA 92618
Billing Address P.O. BOX 57000, Irvine, CA 92619-7000
Type of Facility POTW
Major or Minor Facility Major
Threat to Water Quality 1
Complexity A
Pretreatment Program Y
Reclamation Requirements Producer/User
7.5 mgd - secondary treatment
Facility Permitted Flow 28 million gallons per day (mgd)
and 5.5 mgd – tertiary treatment
Type of Permitted Flows NPDES WDR (Recycled Water only)
7.5 mgd - secondary treatment
Facility Design Flow 28 mgd
and 5.5 mgd – tertiary treatment
San Diego Creek/Newport Bay San Diego Creek/Newport Bay
Watershed
watershed watershed
Irvine Groundwater Management Zone.
Aliso Creek Hydrologic Sub-area (Per San Diego Regional Board’s
Basin Plan)
Receiving Water
Surface waters: Rattlesnake, Syphon, and Sand Canyon Reservoirs,
Reach 1 of San Diego Creek, San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh an

[Page 25]
35. Attachment F, Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report
(SMR) Data, page F-14, replace the last paragraph of Section II.C.1., as follows:
The previous Order prohibited the direct discharge of tertiary treated recycled
water to surface water, except into the three reservoirs, Rattlesnake Reservoir,
Syphon Reservoir, and Sand Canyon Reservoir. However, during wet weather
conditions, storm water runoff from the reservoir watershed occasionally causes
overflows1 from Sand Canyon Reservoir into San Diego Creek. The previous
Order R8-2007-0003 allowed emergency discharge of water from the reservoir
during heavy rainfall events. The Discharger has implemented best management
practices to minimize overflows from Sand Canyon Reservoir by limiting recycled
water storage during the rainy season. During the term of Order No. R8-2007-
0003, Sand Canyon Reservoir has overflowed twice in 2010 and 2011 during the
rainy season. This Order permits overflows from Sand Canyon Reservoir under
certain storm conditions when the flow in San Diego Creek at Campus Drive is
expected to be 50 cubic feet per second or higher. Under such flow conditions, the
discharge should have no impact on nutrient loading to San Diego Creek or
Newport Bay. Also, under emergency conditions and as last resort for disposal,
tertiary treated effluent may be temporarily discharged to Reach 1 of San Diego
Creek through Storm-007, which is tributary to Upper Newport Bay. The
Discharger must implement a total nitrogen (TN) offset program if the discharge of
recycled water, stormwater or tertiary treated effluent occurs when the flow in San
Diego Creek at Campus Drive is less than 50 cubic feet per second and the TN
concentration in the effluent exceeds 1 mg/L. Total phosphorous (TP) loads
discharged must be offset regardless of the flow regime in San Diego Creek.
IRWD operates a network of natural treatment wetlands in the San Diego Creek
Watershed that remove nitrogen and phosphorus from San Diego Creek and its
tributaries.
36. Attachment F,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes, page F-16, replace the last paragraph of Section
II.E., as follows:
IRWD is constructing a Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility at the
MWRP site, which would treat wastes from both Facilities, and includes the
construction and/or installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic
digesters, centrifuges for sludge dewatering, sludge drying equipment,
anaerobically digestable material receiving station, and microturbines for
generation of electricity and heat. The microturbines would operate with biogas
produced in the anaerobic digesters. IRWD anticipates completion of the Biosolids
[Page 26]
Order No. R8-2018-0070, Amending Order No. R8-2015-0024
Michelson and Los Alisos Water Recycling Plants
Irvine Ranch Water District Page 27 of 38
Handling and Energy Recovery Facility by mid-2020. In addition, IRWD is
pursuing the expansion of its recycled water storage capacity at Syphon Reservoir
to almost 10 times the current reservoir