[Page 93]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger is responsible for providing potable water treatment and delivery
services and wastewater collection for the Discharger’s domestic, commercial
and irrigation customers. EVWD has a service population of approximately
104,000 and its service area is about 18,000 acres. The Discharger has
constructed the SNRC that will discharge disinfected and tertiary treated recycled
water to replenish the Bunker Hill-B GMZ. The SNRC is in southwestern San
Bernardino County. The SNRC is a project by the Discharger with the
collaboration of the San Bernardino Valley Municipal Water District (San
Bernardino Valley). The SNRC is a water supply project that supplements
existing water supplies by providing a reliable, high-quality source of water to
recharge the Bunker Hill-B GMZ. The SNRC consists of two major components:
Wastewater Recycling Facility (WWRF) and the Weaver Basins. Non-potable use
of treated water from the WWRF is an additional minor component. The SNRC
includes both treatment processes and pumping stations. Produces disinfected
and tertiary treated recycled water for mostly indirect potable reuse and for non-
potable reuse, at a lower volumetric scale.
A. Wastewater Treatment
1. Wastewater Recycling Facility (WWRF)
The WWRF of the SNRC is designed to produce up to 8 MGD of disinfected
and tertiary treated recycled water, and, in the future, its treatment capacity
2
[Page 94]
Order No. R8-2023-0009 Attachment F
East Valley Water District’s Sterling Natural Resource Center
may be expanded to 10 MGD by adding additional treatment trains.
Wastewater generated in the EVWD’s service area, which includes a small
portion of the SBMWD’s service area, is primarily from residential and
commercial sources with negligible industrial contribution. The wastewater is
conveyed by gravity to the WWRF. The WWRF’s raw wastewater treatment
processes include coarse screens, vortex-type grit removal units, and
cylindrical fine screens (preliminary treatment), flow equalization, followed by
a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system that includes activated sludge aeration
basins with nitrification and denitrification capabilities (secondary treatment)
and microfiltration membranes (tertiary treatment), and Ultra-Violet (UV)
irradiation for disinfection of the tertiary treated effluent. Also, the WWRF
includes solids handling facilities, which include sludge thickening, anaerobic
co-digestion of waste activated sludge and food waste, biosolids dewatering,
and digester gas cogeneration. Biosolids generated will be hauled offsite for
disposal.
2. Conveyance Piping
Following wastewater tertiary treatment and disinfection, the Facility will pump
the recycled water to the Weaver Basins, for surface application, through a
30-inch conveyance pipeline, the Regional Recycled Water Pipeline (RRWP),
that is approximately 5 miles long and is owned by San Bernardino Valley.
The Facility is equipped with a treated wastewater pumping station that
includes a storage tank divided into two separate compartments: one storing
the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

