[Page 88]
Reclamation Requirements Producer/User
7.5 mgd-secondary treatment
Facility Permitted Flow 28 million gallons per day (mgd)
and 5.5 mgd-tertiary treatment
Type of Permitted Flows NPDES WDR (Recycled Water only)
7.5 mgd- secondary treatment
Facility Design Flow 28 mgd
and 5.5 mgd-tertiary treatment
San Diego Creek/Newport Bay San Diego Creek/Newport Bay
Watershed
watershed watershed
Irvine Groundwater Management Zone.
Surface waters: Rattlesnake, Syphon, and Sand Canyon Reservoirs,
Receiving Water
Reach 1 of San Diego Creek, San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh and
Upper Newport Bay.
Receiving Water Type Inland Surface Water, Estuary and Gr

[Page 90]
1. Facility Background
a. MWRP wastewater treatment
This Facility is a publicly owned treatment works with preliminary, primary,
secondary, and tertiary treatment capacity of 28 million gallons per day (mgd). The
plant phase II expansion project added 1 0 mgd of treatment capacity to the existing
18 mgd capacity for a total of 28 mgd. The phase II expansion project includes new
headworks, preliminary treatment, primary clarifiers, a 10 .6-mgd capacity membrane
bio-reactor, and 21-mgd UV disinfection system. Also, the membrane bio-reactor
was built with structural flexibility for the future addition of a 5-mgd capacity
treatment module for an ultimate total treatment capacity expansion of 33 mgd (plant
phase Ill expansion project). The Facility is located at 3512 Michelson Drive, Irvine,
Orange County. This Facility treats residential, commercial, and industrial wastes
from areas within central Orange County, which inc

[Page 92]
2009-0069 (TSO), as amended by Order No. RB-2013-0060, to allow dischargers,
enrolled under Order No. RB-2007 -0041, additional time to comply with the numeric
effluent limitations for selenium. IRWD has enrolled under Order No. RB-2007-0041.
c. LAWRP wastewater treatment.
This Facility is a publicly owned treatment works with preliminary, secondary, tertiary,
and chlorine disinfection treatments. The rated tertiary and disinfection treatment
capacity for this Facility is 5.5 mgd and its secondary treatment capacity is 7.5 mgd.
The Facility is located at 22312 Muirlands Boulevard, Lake Forest, Orange County
and treats residential and commercial wastes from within the Lake Forest area of
Orange County. LAWRP receives wastewater through two trunk lines and serves a
total population of about 40,700.
2. Design Characteristics
The Facilities consists of the following treatment processes:
Table 2. Facilities' Treatment Processes
Preliminary Primary
Secondary Treatment Tertiary Treatment
Treatment Treatment
MWRP
Activated sludge (AS) process Addition of Alum prior to filtration
operated in nitrification/denitrification and high rate clarification.
Perforated mode and may use methanol Conventional down flow dual media
Primary
Plate screens augmentation in the anoxic zone at filters, disinfection by chlorination.
clarifiers, flow
and Vortex- the head of each aeration basin Potassium hydroxide pH adjustment
equalization
type grit followed by secondary clarification. capability is provided to regulate pH
basins
chambers Membrane bioreactor (MBR) as needed. Microfiltration membrane
process with nutrient removal technology that is part of the MBR
operated as separate treatment train treatment train followed by UV
[Page 93]
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. RB-2015-0024
Water Recycling Plants NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Page F-9
in parallel with AS process. disinfection.
LAWRP
Passive grit Flash mixer, flocculation basins,
chamber and Aerated lagoons and sedimentation sedimentation basins, and filtration
coarse stair Not applicable basins with dredging equipment for with conventional downward flow
mechanical sludge removal dual-media filters. Chlorination for
screens disinfection in chlorine contact basin.
The tertiary treatment design capacity of MWRP and LAWRP is 28 mgd and 5.5
mgd respectively. Recycled water flows at MWRP and LAWRP for the last three
years are listed below:
T a bl e 3 R ecyc led Wat e r P ro d uce d
Plant MWRP LAWRP
Produced, Annual Design Capacity Produced, Annual
Design Capacity,
Year Average Daily Flow, (recycled water), Average Daily Flow,
MGD
MGD MGD MGD
2012 18 17.4 5.5 2.8
2013 18 17.8 5.5 3.8
2014 28 18.3 5.5 3.3
Attachment 8 provides a map of the area around these Facilities
Attachment C provides a treatment flow schematic for these Facilities.
3. Biosolids/Siudge Handling Practices
At MWRP, sludge and scum are collected and pumped into an OCSD sewer line,
then to OCSD's Reclamation Plant No. 1 for treatment and disposal. LAWRP sludge
is dewatered onsite and hauled away for disposal to a compost facility in Arizona or
to a local landfill in Orange County. Screenings and grit are re.moved and disposed
of at a Class 1 landfill. IRWD is implementing a Biosolids Handling and Energy
Recovery Facility Project at the MWRP site, which is in the construction phase and
would treat solids from both Facilities, and includes the construction and/or
installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic digesters, centrifuges for
sludge dewatering, sludge drying equipment, anaerobically digestable material
receiving station, and microturbines for generation of electricity and heat. The
microturbines would operate with biogas produced in the anaerobic digesters.
IRWD anticipates completion of the Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility
by the end of 2016.
4. Recycled Water Reuse and Other Water Sources
[Page 94]
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. RS-2015-0024
Water Recycling Plants NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Page F-10
Recycled Water Storage. The Discharger uses a combination of closed storage
tanks and open storage reservo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In 2005, IRWD prepared an Environmental Impact Report for the Michelson Water
Reclamation Plant's ultimate expansion to 33 mgd and related process changes. The
comment period for this EIR closed on December 28, 2005. Final Design began in mid-
2006 and completed in early 2008. Construction was completed on the phase II
treatment expansion in 2013 and full operation of the treatment expansion started in
early 2014. The construction schedule for the phase Ill treatment expansion, which
would add 5-mgd treatment capacity, is uncertain.
IRWD is constructing a Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility at the MWRP
site, which would treat wastes from both Facilities, and includes the construction and/or
installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic digesters, centrifuges for sludge
dewatering, sludge drying equipment, anaerobically digestable material receiving station,
and microturbines for generation of electricity and heat. The microturbines would
operate with biogas produced in the anaerobic digesters. IRWD anticipates completion
of the Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility by the end of 2016.
Ill. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and
implementing r