[Page 36]
Arts Academy on which the Facility is located. Currently, secondary treated and
undisinfected wastewater produced at the Facility is discharged to a series of offsite
percolation ponds and a spray irrigation system located on National Forest land. The
Discharger plans to add tertiary treatment processes to its current treatment system and
construct a pressurized pipeline distribution system to distribute tertiary treated recycled
water for landscape irrigation within the Discharger's service area. The Discharger
proposes to treat only a portion of its secondary effluent to tertiary standards and will
continue to discharge secondary treated wastewater to the existing percolation ponds.
[Page 37]
Idyllwild Water District Order No. RB-2015-0028
Wastewater Treatment and Water Recycling Plant
Attachment F -Fact Sheet Page F-3 of Page F-13
B. On August 28, 1998, the Regional Board adopted Order No. 98-78 prescribing Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDR) for the Facility. The Discharger filed a report of waste
discharge and submitted an application for renewal of Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) and for a Master Reclamation Permit. This order updates the WDR for the
Facility and adds reclamation requirements allowing the reuse of up to 57,000 gpd
recycled water for landscape irrigation.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Facility Background
The Idyllwild Water District operates the Facility, which is permitted to discharge up
to 250,000 gallons per day of secondary treated effluent to a series of offsite
percolations ponds and a spray irrigation system to the surrounding land under the
current permit (Order No. 98-78). The wastewater treatment consists of an activated
sludge unit with aerobic digestion and secondary clarification. Unit processes
include a grinder, extended aeration of activated sludge, clarification chamber, and
an aerobic sludge digester. Raw wastewater, after passing through the headworks,
can also be routed to an external aeration tank that can serve either as back-up
treatment unit during a planned or emergency shut down or as an equalization basin
during peak flows. Approximately 65,000-70,000 gallons per day of sewage is
treated during the winter months. This flow increases to approximately 100,000
gallons per day during the summer months. Undisinfected secondary effluent from
the Facility is discharged at Discharge Point 001 which consists of seven offsite
percolation ponds and a spray irrigation system on National Forest land located
approximately a mile away from the Facility. The discharger is in the process of
adding tertiary treatment processes and constructing a pressurized pipeline
distribution system to distribute up to 57,000 gallons per day of tertiary treated
effluent for landscape irrigation. Tertiary treatment processes that are being added
to the treatment plant consist of coagulation, sand filtration and disinfection with
ultraviolet (UV) light. Attachment 8 provides a vicinity map of the Facility.
Attachment C provides flow schematics of the current treatment system at the facility
as well as the tertiary treatment processes that are proposed to be added to the
current system.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Discharger is authorized to discharge from the discharge points set forth below:
[Page 38]
Idyllwild Water District Order No. RB-2015-0028
Wastewater Treatment and Water Recycling Plant
Attachment F -Fact Sheet Page F-4 of Page F-13
Table 2. Dischar e Points
Discharge Discharge
Discharge Effluent Receiving Water
Point Point
Point Description
(Latitude) (Longitude)
Offsite Unlined Percolation
DP-001 Secondary Ponds and Spray Irrigation
Land treated and 33° 43' 44.1" N 116° 45' 54.9" w System on National Forest land
disposal undisinfected overlying the Idyllwild
Groundwater Mana ement Zone
-il
DP-002 Tertiary
. _.. W Idyllwild Groundwater
Recycled treated and 33° 43' 57.8" N 1160 44 54 6
Management Zone
water disinfected
1. Discharge Point to Ponds (DP-001)
Secondary treated, undisinfected, wastewater is discharged via DP-001 to seven
offsite percolation ponds located on National Forest land. This water is also used for
spray irrigation of National Forest land.
2. Discharge Points for Recycled Water Reuse (DP-002)
The Discharger has completed a preliminary design and obtained funding for the
construction of a recycled water distribution system that will deliver up to 57,000 gpd
of recycled water to a number of users for landscape irrigation. Constructi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility is being upgraded from secondary treatment to tertiary treatment with UV
disinfection for water that would be used for landscape irrigation and/or other recycled
water uses.
Ill. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to Article 4,
Chapter 4 of the California Water Code