[Page 149]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger’s POTW serves approximately 480 square miles of central and
northern Orange County, California. Currently, the POTW consists of approximately
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 150]
ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604
COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS
388 miles of trunk sewer systems and force mains, 15 offsite pump stations, two
wastewater treatment plants, and three outfalls. In addition to the domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater received from this service area, through
interagency agreements, influent flows are contributed by the Santa Ana Watershed
Project Authority (SAWPA) including Stringfellow Superfund Site (EPA ID
#CAT080012826), Irvine Ranch Water District, and the Sanitation District of Los
Angeles County. During dry weather conditions, the Discharger also accepts small
volumes (average daily amount up to 10 MGD) of dry weather urban runoff from within
the service area. During 2018-2019, the Discharger’s wastewater treatment plants
received and processed influent volumes averaging 191 MGD.
Raw wastewater entering either Reclamation Plant No. 1 or Treatment Plant No. 2
passes through metering and diversion structures and continues to headworks
facilities for preliminary treatment. Note that influent flow from SAWPA is tributary to
Reclamation Plant No. 1 via the Santa Ana River Interceptor (SARI). Because the
California Department of Health does not permit SARI flow for the Groundwater
Replenishment System (GWRS) reclamation, all SARI flow is diverted to Treatment
Plant No. 2 through the Interplant Interceptor for treatment and ocean discharge.
Preliminary treatment includes grit and screenings removal. Caustic soda shock,
ferrous chloride, calcium nitrate, magnesium hydroxide and polymer can be added to
reduce corrosion and odor and provide enhanced primary treatment. The wastewater
then receives primary treatment in primary sedimentation facilities. The primary
effluent is routed to either trickling filters or activated sludge facilities for secondary
treatment. Secondary treated trickling filter and activated sludge effluents from
Reclamation Plant No. 1 are delivered to the Orange County Water District (OCWD)
for further tertiary treatment and reclamation. The OC San discharges secondary
treated effluent from Treatment Plant No. 2 through Discharge Point 001 (primary 120”
ocean outfall) to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States, except under
emergency circumstances. In 2023, when the Final Expansion of the GWRS is
complete, Treatment Plant No. 2 effluents will also be reclaimed at the GWRS. SARI
flow will be separated from other domestic wastewater at Plant No. 2, where it will be
secondary treated before being discharged to the ocean. The use of continuous
disinfection prior to discharge through Discharge Point No. 001 (120” outfall) has been
ceased since May 2015. Effluent disinfection with chlorine bleach followed by de-
chlorination with sodium bisulfite occurs at the other two discharge points 002 and
003. Dewatered biosolids are shipped offsite to land application, composting, thermal
conversion, or landfill facilities. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the
treatment facilities. Attachment C provides flow schematics of the full secondary
treatment facilities.
OCWD receives two streams of OC San secondary treated wastewater, one for the
Green Acres Project (GAP, out of service in winter) and the second one for the
GWRS. Both GAP and GWRS are major regional wastewater reclamation projects
owned and operated by OCWD and located adjacent to Reclamation Plant No. 1.
Advanced treatment for the GWRS includes microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and
advance oxidation (ultraviolet/peroxide). The Discharger provides approximately 100
% of secondary treated effluent from Plant No.1 to GWRS for advanced treatment and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 151]
ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604
COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS
reuse. In Fiscal Year 2018-19, the average effluent flow to OCWD was 117 MGD. The
GWRS Final Expansion has been under construction since November 2019, which
supports the Discharger’s strategic goal of maximizing water recycling up to 175 MGD
at both plants, and OCWD’s goal to produce up to 130 MGD of purified recycled water
by 2023. GAP can divert up to 7.5 MGD of the Discharger’s secondary treated
wastewater for tertiary treatment, disinfection, and reuse for landscaped irrigation and
industrial uses. In Fiscal Year 2018-19 summer months, average flow to GAP was 4
MGD. The GAP and part of the GWRS generates waste streams (e.g., microfiltration
backwash, sump waste, and lime waste) are recycled back into the OC San’s primary
treatment facility, except for RO reject (or concentrate) which are returned to OC San,
blended with other secondary treated waste streams and discharged via ocean
outfalls.
In 2019, average daily total influent flow to both plants was 192 MGD, but because of
water recycling efforts, the average daily ocean discharg

[Page 152]
3. Discharge Point 003 (Santa Ana River Overflow Weirs). Discharge Point 003
(i.e., the Santa Ana River Overflow Weirs) is comprised of two extreme emergency
discharge points (overflow) to the tidal prism in the Santa Ana River, which
eventually flows to the Pacific Ocean. One of the overflow points is located at the
termination structure upstream of the EPSA facility and other one is at the OOBS
facility. The structure consists of a 50’ long overflow weir with two 72” pipes. The
total capacity is approximately 605 MGD (i.e., 130 MGD from EPSA and 475 MGD
from OOBS), but the actual capacity depends on the water level at the river. This
outfall has never discharged over the past 10 years; however, it remains available
for extreme emergency uses (e.g., tsunami, earthquake, flood, and acts of war or
terrorism).
Table F-2. Disc

[Page 155]
D. Compliance Summary
Completion of Secondary Treatment Projects
Since the construction of the facilities that was required to achieve secondary
treatment standards were not completed at the time the previous permit was issued,
OC San entered into a consent decree mandating OC San to meet secondary
treatment limits by December 31, 2012. After extensive process improvement and
Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) including completion of the following:
(cid:120) Trickling filter project at Reclamation Plant No. 1, completed in Spring 2006;
(cid:120) Secondary treatment rehabilitation project at Treatment Plant No. 2, completed
in Spring 2008;
(cid:120) New trickling filters and solid contact basins at Treatment Plant No. 2,
completed in Summer 2011. The project added 60 MGD of secondary
treatment capacity; and
(cid:120) New activated sludge system at Reclamation Plant No. 1, completed in Fall
2012. The project added 60 MGD of secondary treatment capacity.
The Discharger has officially declared the POTW at full secondary treatment on
December 28, 2012 and continue operating at and meeting full secondary
requirements.
Cessation of Continuous Disinfection Practices at Discharge Point 001 (120”
outfall)
The disinfection program initiated in 2002 was based on using sodium hypochlorite
(bleach) for disinfection and sodium bisulfite for dechlorination. Beginning in 2006, the
Discharger started to note negative changes in the structure and health of benthic
communities within the zone of initial dilution (ZID) around the diffuser to the 120-inch
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-11
[Page 156]
ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604
COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS
outfall (the primary discharge point). To determine the causes of these changes to the
marine environment, the Discharger conducted detailed studies divided into two
phases: Phase I (2009-2010) for an analysis of historical data to identify any potential
causes and Phase II (2011-2012) for investigation of operational changes and process
improvements that occurred at the treatment facilities and the facility’s dry-weather
urban runoff diversion program. Based on the results of these investigations, the
discharge of chlorinated effluent prior to 2012 resulted in a decline in benthic
communities near the ZID. The benthic environment has been improved since 2012
due to reduction of the use of chlorine after achieving full secondary treatment.
After long-term beach water quality studies and oceanographic data evaluation by an
Independent Advisory Panel (IAP) of experts hosted by the National Water Research
Institute (NWRI), it was concluded that continuing to chlorinate full secondary treated
effluent provides little to no public health benefit to local beaches. The Discharger has
also achieved continuous compliance with the secondary treatment requirements of
the Clean Water Act. On March 17, 2015, based on the observations and
recommendations of the IAP and with public support, OC San received approval from
the Santa Ana Regional Water Quality Control Board and USEPA to cease
disinfection at Discharge Point 001 (120” outfall). OC San has ceased continuous
chlorination/dechlorination since May 2015. The disinfection system would remain
available for later use, if determined necessary. Use of disinfection remains at the
other two discharge points (Discharge Points 002 and 003) to protect human health.
Planned 6-Week Diversion to Discharge Point 002 (78” outfall)
From September 11, 2012 through October 4, 2012, the Discharger temporarily
diverted disinfected effluent from Discharge Point 001 (120” outfall) to Discharge Point
002 (78” outfall) as part of an infrastructure rehabilitation project (refer to as Capital
Improvement Project J-112) to inspect, assess, and rehabilitate the Outfall Land
Section and Ocean Outfall Booster Pump Station Piping. To minimize impacts to
public health, the treated wastewater received enhanced disinfection so that state
bacterial water contact standards were met prior to discharge and subsequent dilution.
The Discharger conducted the J-112 environmental monitoring program including
modeling to track the discharged plume, measure the effectiveness of the enhanced
disinfection program, and determine environmental impacts to the receiving water
during the diversion to the nearshore outfall. The lessons learned report and a more
comprehensive report (i.e., 2012 OCSD Outfall Diversion Summary Report) were
submitted to the Santa Ana Water Board and USEPA on March 25, 2014, which
summarize the sampling methodology during the diversion and provide
recommendations for improvi

[Page 157]
Expansion and anticipated to be completed by 2023.
(cid:120) Modify Plant 2 Headworks Facility to create a reclaimable and non-reclaimable
treatment train. Reclaimable flows will go through existing preliminary, primary,
and secondary (trickling filter solids contact) treatment before being pumped to
GWRS.
(cid:120) Build a Plant 2 effluent pump station that will convey approximately 50-85 MGD
of secondary effluent from Plant No. 2 trickling filter solids contact process to
the GWRS Facility.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-13
[Page 158]
ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604
COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS
(cid:120) Build a 6 MG equalization storage tank at Plant No. 2 to store secondary
effluent during peak day flows and be returned to the system during low flow
periods to maintain a constant flow to the GWRS.
(cid:120) Relocate the existing plant water pump station to a location more suitable for
receiving the trickling filter solids contact treatment processes. After the GWRS
Final Expansion, the activated sludge treatment process will treat only SARI
and side-stream flows.
(cid:120) Convert the unused 66-inch gravity reinforced concrete pipeline into a pressure
pipeline using a trenchless pipe repair method, to convey the effluent pump
station discharge.
This expansion would require a total flow from OC San plants of approximately 175
MGD to produce 130 MGD of indirect potable reuse water. The Final Expansion of the
GWRS will enable the Discharger to recycle the majority of the wastewater generated
in its service area and treated at its two wastewater treatment plants.
Organic Waste Co-Digestion Project
Construction and operation of an organic waste co-digestion facility is anticipated to
be completed in 2022. An organic waste receiving facility will be constructed to
receive, store, and feed approximately 150 tons of pre-processed food waste slurry to
the digester complex at Plant No. 2 (by Digester M) to generate additional digester
gas per recommendations of the Biosolids Master Plan. This facility will be replaced
with a permanent receiving station following completion of a proposed program to
replace existing digesters at Plant No. 2. Food waste will be fed into OC San’s
digesters, creating more gas and electricity, while producing a few extra truckloads of
solids per week.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

