[Page 95]
1. Discharger and Service Area
1
Appurtenant structures among other things include the Regional Water Recycling Plant No.2 (RP-2)
facility. RP-2 is an existing tertiary wastewater treatment plant owned by the Discharger. Cease and
Desist Order No. 94-74 required the Discharger to relocate the liquid treatment facilities at RP-2 to a site
not subject to flooding. Consequently, RP-5 replaced RP-2. Only the sludge treatment systems at RP-2
are operational and there are no longer surface water discharges from RP-2. Primary and waste
activated sludge from RP-5 and CCWRF are piped to the regional solids handling facility at RP-2 for
sludge treatment. Dewatered wastewater from RP-2 is pumped back to the headworks of RP-5.
[Page 96]
Inland Empire Utilities Agency Order No. R8-2015-0036
Regional Water Recycling Facilities NPDES No. CA8000409
Surface Water Discharges and Recycled Water Use
Attachment F- Fact Sheet Page F-7 of F-45
Inland Empire Utilities Agency (IEUA) is a municipal water supply and wastewater
treatment agency. IEUA owns and operates a regional wastewater collection
system and water recycling plants, including RP-1, RP-4, RP-5, and CCWRF. The
treatment Facilities receive domestic, commercial, and industrial waste waters
generated within the IEUA service areas. Wastewater can be diverted to different
plants via available routing options built into the regional system (see Figure 1 of
Attachment C for further details). After treatment, recycled water can be discharged
to nearby outfall(s) or recycled for industrial uses, irrigation and groundwater
recharge. The following table summarizes the service areas and the population
served by each Facility.
Table 2. Summary of Service Areas & Population Served
Facility Population Served Cities/Agency Served
Chino, Fontana, Montclair, Upland, Ontario, Cucamonga Valley
RP-1 & RP-4 560,500
Water District, and some unincorporated areas
RP-5 104,400 Chino, Chino Hills, and Ontario; Montclair and Upland via CCWRF
Chino, Chino Hills, Montclair, Upland, and some unincorporated
CCWRF 148,700
areas
Attachment B provides a location map, sewer and recycled water pipelines, service
area, and well locations for each of the treatment plants.
Attachment C provides the IEUA system-wide influent flow interrelationship diagram,
IEUA system-wide water recycling distribution system and treatment flow schematic
for each of the facilities.
[Page 97]
Inland Empire Utilities Agency Order No. R8-2015-0036
Regional Water Recycling Facilities NPDES No. CA8000409
Surface Water Discharges and Recycled Water Use
Attachment F- Fact Sheet Page F-8 of F-45
2. Design Characteristics and Biosolids Treatment
The treatment processes at each Facility are tabulated as follows:
Table 3. Plant Treatment Processes
Facility RP-1 RP-4 RP-5 CCWRF
Mechanical bar screen, grit
Mechanical bar screens, grit
Preliminary & Mechanical bar screen, grit removal, chemical addition,
chambers, chemical addition, Fine-screens, grit chambers,
Primary chambers, one storage primary clarifiers,
primary clarifiers, flow equalization chemical addition, primary clarifiers
Treatment basin, primary clarifiers emergency storage basin
/emergency storage basins
Aeration basins with Aeration basins with
Secondary Aeration trains with oxic/anoxic Aeration basins with oxic /anoxic
anoxic/oxic zones, anoxic/oxic zones,
Treatment zones, secondary clarifiers zones, secondary clarifiers
secondary clarifiers secondary clarifiers
Coagulation/Flocculation,
Coagulation/Flocculation, Coagulation/Flocculation, filtration, Coagulation/flocculation,
Tertiary filtration, chlorination, de-
sedimentation, filtration, chlorination, chlorination, emergency diversion filtration, chlorination,
Treatment chlorination, emergency
dechlorination pond dechlorination
overflow pond
15 (and 1.3 mgd RP-2
Design
44 14 sludge treatment system 12
Capacity, mgd
wastewater flows)
Primary and waste activated sludge wastes from RP-5 and
The solids handling for these facilities takes place at RP-1. RP-4 primary CCWRF are piped to the regional solids handling facility at
sludge and waste activated sludge are conveyed through the sewer system RP-2 for sludge treatment. The solids treatment system at
and enter RP-1 as influent. Solids treatment includes gravity thickener and RP-2 includes gravity thickeners; dissolved air flotation
Solids
dissolved air flotation thickeners, anaerobic digestion, digester gas utilization, thickeners; anaerobic digestion; aerobic digestion; belt
Handling
and centrifuge dewatering. Centrifuge concentrate is pumped to the Non- press, and centrifuge dewatering. Dewatered biosolids are
Reclaimable Waste System (NRWS) line and is ultimately treated by the hauled away to approved disposal sites
County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County. Sludge treatment system wastewater from RP-2 is pumped
back to headworks of RP-5.
[Page 98]
Inland Empire Utilities Agency Order No. R8-2015-0036
Regional Water Recycling Facilities NPDES No. CA8000409
Surface Water Discharges and Recycled Water Use
Attachment F- Fact Sheet Page F-9 of F-45
3. Recycled Water Uses
The Discharger delivers tertiary treated wastewater through the regional recycled
water system at various locations for recycled water use. The recycled wate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

