[Page 85]
2. Wastewater Design Characteristics and Treatment Capacity
Water Reclamation Facility No. 1 is located at 2205 Railroad Street, Corona. The current
design treatment capacity of the Facility is 11.5 MGD for secondary treatment and 15.0
MGD for tertiary filtration. Chlorine is used for disinfection.
The treatment system includes the headworks, two secondary treatment plants (Plant
1A and Plant 1B), tertiary filters, and a chlorine contact basin. The headworks consist of
a rotating screen unit and a grit removal system that are designed for 14.5 MGD
treatment capacity. A flow splitter separates up to 5.5 MGD of the effluent from the
headworks to Plant 1A, while the remainder of the flow is sent to Plant 1B.
The design capacity of Plant 1A is 5.5 MGD. Treatment processes consists of two
rectangular primary sedimentation units; an activated sludge process with nutrient
removal capabilities operated in a serpentine step-feed mode (three aeration basins),
and secondary clarification provided by six rectangular units. Both the primary and
secondary clarifier units are equipped for sludge recovery and conveyance to onsite
biosolids handling facilities.
The design capacity for Plant 1B is 6.0 MGD. Secondary treatment consists of two
parallel oxidation ditches with separate oxic and anoxic zones, and two circular
secondary clarifier units with sludge recovery.
Secondary treated wastewater from Plants 1A and 1B is discharged to a flow
equalization basin. Water from the equalization basin is pumped directly to the tertiary
filters. The tertiary treatment train consists of coagulation, continuous backwash sand
filtration, and chlorination with sodium hypochlorite in two serpentine chlorine contact
1 Non-categorical SIUs include SIUs that discharge an average of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd) or
more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater); contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5 percent or more of
the average dry-weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or is
designated as such by the Control Authority on the basis that the Industrial User has a reasonable
potential to adversely affect the POTW’s operation; or for violating any Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 86]
CITY OF CORONA, DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER ORDER NO. R8-2020-0021
WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NO. 1 NPDES NO. CA8000383
tanks followed by dechlorination with sodium bisulfate. Effluent from the tertiary
treatment train can either be pumped to the three offsite percolation ponds or the city-
wide recycled water distribution system. One of the percolation ponds is located along
Lincoln Avenue and the other two ponds are located at the end of Rincon Street near
Cota Street.
On March 15, 2010, the Discharger requested the California State Water Resources
Control Board’s (SWRCB’s) Division of Drinking Water (DDW) to re-rate the tertiary
treatment capacity from its original approved capacity of 9 MGD to its design capacity of
15 MGD. Regional Water Board staff has evaluated the Dischargers’ request and
considers the tertiary treatment train re-rating to be reasonable; however, the total plant
treatment capacity is controlled by the secondary treatment process of 11.5 MGD.
The Discharger reported in their Report of Waste Discharge and Permit Renewal
Application that the annual average effluent flow to the ponds was 2.917 MGD and the
annual average effluent flow to the creek was 4.277 MGD.
3. Biosolids Handling Practices
Primary sludge and waste activated sludge from Plant 1A and 1B is thickened with a
gravity belt thickener prior to being sent to one of three anaerobic digesters. Digested
sludge is dewatered with a belt press or centrifuge. Waste activated sludge from Plant
1B is pumped to the gravity belt thickeners prior to being sent to the anaerobic
digesters. All belt press filtrate is reintroduced to the oxidation ditches and sludge cake
is diverted to a thermal dryer or is transported to an approved composting facility. Water
Reclamation Facility No. 1 currently receives sludge from Water Reclamation Facility
No. 2.
4. Recycled Water Storage Tank
Disinfected tertiary water flows to an on-site four million gallon recycled water storage
tank. Water can be pumped from the storage tank to recycled water users or to the
ponds.
5. On-Site Storm Water Runoff
Stormwater runoff from the Facility is contained within the plant property. All stormwater
from the Facility is directed to one of two catch basins and allowed to
percolate/evaporate.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 87]
CITY OF CORONA, DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER ORDER NO. R8-2020-0021
WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NO. 1 NPDES NO. CA8000383
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Discharge Points
Discharge Effluent Discharge Discharge Receiving Water
Point Description Point Point
Latitude Longitude
(North) (West)
001 Tertiary 33o53’44” N 117o36’35” W Butterfield Drain
t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

