[Page 168]
2. Facility Description
After periods of tremendous population growth and a long history of inadequate sewerage
facilities in Tijuana, Mexico and associated transboundary raw sewage flows, the
governments of the U.S. and Mexico in 1990 agreed to build the Facility on the U.S. side of
the international border as part of a bilateral program to address environmental pollution in
the international border region (USIBWC Minute No. 283 between the U.S. and Mexican
sections of the International Boundary and Water Commission). The Facility was built on a
75-acre site in San Ysidro, a community of the City of San Diego, near the international
border in the U.S. immediately north of Tijuana's main wastewater pumping station. The
Facility is designed to treat to secondary treatment standards up to 25 MGD of raw sewage
flows exceeding the capacity of Tijuana’s sewage treatment and conveyance facilities,
including some low-volume transboundary flows in canyon and gullies that had historically
emptied sewage flows exceeding the capacity of Tijuana’s sewage treatment and
conveyance facilities and treats some transboundary flows in canyon and gullies that empty
from Tijuana into the Tijuana River Estuary on the U.S. side of the international border. The
Facility was originally planned as a secondary treatment facility; however, due to financial
constraints, the plant was initially constructed as an advanced primary treatment facility in
1996.
In February 2001, the San Diego Water Board filed a complaint in United States District
Court, Southern District of California (Court) against the Discharger, alleging violations of
the federal Clean Water Act and the California Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act at
the Facility. The complaint alleged the Discharger violated the terms of its NPDES Permit
(San Diego Water Board Order No. 96-50/ NPDES Permit CA0108928) by failing to treat the
Facility effluent to secondary treatment standards and by violating other effluent limitations.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 169]
U.S. International Boundary and Water Commission Order No. R9-2021-0001
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
On December 6, 2004, the Court issued a final judgment setting a compliance schedule for
the Discharger to meet federal and state requirements for secondary treatment standards by
constructing an activated sludge secondary treatment process at the Facility to improve
effluent quality. Construction of the Facility upgrade was completed in late 2010; however,
the Facility had an adjustment period of about one and a half years and did not start to
consistently achieve substantial compliance with the NPDES Permit secondary treatment
effluent limitations until mid-2012. On June 20, 2013, after about a year of substantial
compliance with the secondary treatment effluent limitations, the San Diego Water Board
informed the Court of its opinion that the Discharger had complied with the Court’s 2004
judgment.
According to the Discharger, in the decades since construction of the SBIWTP, the
communities along the border have experienced exponential growth in population and
development that has resulted in ongoing transboundary flows of raw sewage, trash, and

[Page 169]
Mexico International border, is operated by Veolia Water North America.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the SBIWTP consist of three
mechanical bar screens, one grit removal unit, six primary sedimentation tanks with
ferric chloride injection capabilities, polymer injections, seven aeration basins, and 10
secondary clarifiers. During the winter when the discharge (or outfall) plume is most
likely to surface, the Discharger also chlorinates the effluent with sodium hypochlorite.
Treated wastewater first flows through the SBLO and then through the SBOO, where it
is discharged to the Pacific Ocean. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the
SBIWTP.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 170]
U.S. International Boundary and Water Commission Order No. R9-2021-0001
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
The advanced primary treatment facility has a peak hydraulic capacity of 100 MGD, a
peak design flow rate of 75 MGD, and an average design flow rate of 25 MGD. The
secondary treatment design capacity is 25 MGD with a peaking factor of approximately
2. If flow from the primary treatment units to the secondary treatment units exceeds
49.85 MGD, primary effluent flows exceeding 49.85 MGD bypass the polymer addition
and activated sludge processes and discharge directly to the SBOO. Bypasses are
prohibited unless they meet the requirements contained in Attachment D of this Order,
section 1.7. The reported annual average daily discharge flow between 2016 and 2019
ranges between 22.36 MGD and 24.57 MGD.
Solids from secondary sedimentation tanks are conveyed to three dissolved air flotation
units for thickening. Thickened sludge from the dissolved air flotation units and solids
collected from the primary sedimentation tanks are sent to an on-site solids handling
facility for dewatering using belt-filter presses and lime stabilization. Processed solids
are collected onsite and trucked to Mexico for disposal.
The SBIWTP receives domestic and industrial wastewater from the following sources:
· City of Tijuana’s municipal collection system;
· Five diversion structures (also referred as canyon collectors), Stewart’s Drain, Canyon
del Sol, Silva’s Drain, Smuggler’s Gulch, and Goat Canyon; and
· Transboundary flows from other locati

===PLANNED CHANGES===

