[Page 72]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
FPUD owns and operates the Facility, FPUD land outfall pipe, and FPUD sanitary sewer
system. These facilities are collectively referred to as FPUD’s Facilities in this Order.
This Order establishes discharge prohibitions, limitations, and conditions to regulate
discharges of effluent consisting of treated wastewater from FPUD’s Facilities to the
Pacific Ocean; these discharges were regulated by Order No. R9-2006-002 (NPDES
permit No. CA0108031) that expired on June 1, 2011, but was administratively continued
until the effective date of this Order.
FPUD provides wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal services for
approximately 25,000 people utilizing residential service connections within the FPUD
service area. Additionally, the Facility provides treatment and disposal services for
approximately 10,000 gallons of wastewater generated by the Fallbrook US Naval
Weapons Station. Currently, FPUD is not required to have an industrial pretreatment
program since the Facility does not accept contributions from any industrial dischargers
or sources subject to pretreatment standards.
The Facility is located at 1425 South Alturas Road, Fallbrook CA 92028 in San Diego
County, adjacent to Fallbrook Creek. Wastewater treatment unit operations and
processes at the Facility consist of mechanical bar screening, aerated grit removal,
primary sedimentation, aeration and secondary clarification (activated sludge treatment
process), chlorination, and filtration. Treated wastewater is discharged to the Pacific
Ocean through the Oceanside OO. Secondary treatment design capacity is currently
2.70 MGD average daily flow. The annual average daily flow in 2008 was 1.75 MGD,
and in 2009 was 1.71 MGD.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal at the Facility are collected
on-site and trucked to a landfill in San Diego County, California. Sludge from the
secondary treatment facilities is thickened aerobically, digested, and dewatered via
centrifuge. Dewatered sludge are fed to a thermal dryer system to produce Class A EQ
sewage sludge and disposed of via land application. If the dryer system is off-line,
sewage sludge is dewatered via drying beds and hauled to a land application site in
Yuma, Arizona by a contractor.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 73]
FALLBROOK PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R9-2012-0004
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NO. 1 NPDES NO. CA0108031
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Facility discharges secondary effluent to the Oceanside OO via pump stations and a
land outfall system. FPUD has a contractual agre

===PLANNED CHANGES===

