[Page 90]
1. Encina Water Pollution Control Facility (EWPCF)
The EWPCF is located at 6200 Avenida Encinas, Carlsbad, approximately one-third mile
from the ocean, near the mouth of Canon de las Encinas. Wastewater treatment unit
operations and processes at the EWPCF consist of bar screening, peroxide addition, grit
removal, primary sedimentation, biological treatment using activated sludge, and secondary
clarification. EWPCF also has disinfection (chlorination) capabilities limited to the capacity
necessary to disinfect secondary effluent currently reused on-site. Solids treatment unit
operations and processes consist of dissolved air flotation (DAF) thickening, anaerobic
digestion, and mechanical dewatering (centrifuges), and heat drying. At the time of adoption
of this Order, the secondary treatment design capacity of the EWPCF is 40.5 MGD average
dry-weather flowrate, and the facility is capable of processing solids at 43.3 MGD. Up to 4
MGD of secondary effluent is diverted to the CWRF and up to 1 MGD is diverted to the
Gafner Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP). A small volume of treated wastewater is used
on-site. All other effluent from EWPCF is discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the EOO.
As part of the ROWD/appiication, the Discharger submitted a report certifying the capacities
of the EWPCF. In 2009, the observed average daily flow from EWPCF was 23.25 MGD.
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 91]
ENCINA WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2011-0019
ENCINA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107395
2. Vallecitos Meadowlark Water Reclamation Plant (VMWRP)
The VMWRP is located at 7941 Corintia Street, Carlsbad, approximately 5.5 miles east of
the EWPCF. The VMWRP accepts raw wastewater from the Vallecitos Water District's
collection system which it proceeds to treat to a tertiary level for water recycling. California
Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Diego Region (San Diego Water Board) Order
No. R9-2007-0018 established WDRs, including Caiifomia Code of Regulations (CCR) Title
22 water recycling requirements, for recycling of tertiary effluent from VMWRP. Wastewater
treatment unit operations and processes at VMWRP consist of inline sewage grinders,
primary sedimentation tanks, roughing filters, an activated sludge process utilizing aeration
tanks and secondary clarifiers, tertiary filtration, and chlorine disinfection. All solids flows
produced from processes at VMWRP are conveyed to EWPCF for treatment. Effluent that is
not recycled, such as effluent not meeting Title 22 water recycling requirements or excess
tertiary effluent, is conveyed through the Meadowlark land outfall (also referred to as a
failsafe line), which connects to the EOO, for direct disposal to the Pacific Ocean. At the
time of adoption of this Order, the design capacity of VMWRP is 5.0 MGD and the observed
average daily flow from the facility in 2009 was 0.221 MGD.
3. Carlsbad Water Reclamation Facility (CWRF)
The CWRF is located at 6220 Avenida Encinas in the City of Carlsbad adjacent to the
EWPCF. A portion of the secondary effluent flows from EWPCF, which would otherwise be
discharged directly to the EOO. are diverted to CWRF to produce up to 4 MGD of recycled
water for reuse in the City of Carlsbad's Carlsbad Municipal Water District service area.
Order No. R9-2001-0352. issued by the San Diego Water Board, established WDRs.
including CCR Title 22 water recycling requirements, for the reuse of effluent from the
CWRF. By letter dated August 16, 2005, the San Diego Water Board authorized the
discharge of tertiary effluent from the CWRF for water recycling purposes. The treatment
unit operations and processes at CWRF consist of continuous backwash granulated media
filtration, microfiltration or ultrafiltration (MF/UF), reverse osmosis (RO) membrane filtration,
chlorine disinfection, and solids thickening. MF/UF backwash, along with other backwash
from other CWRF processes, is thickened and returned to EWPCF for treatment and
disposal. Up to 0.2 MGD of waste brine from the RO process is discharged directly to the
ocean through the EOO. Effluent that is not recycled, such as effluent not meeting Title 22
water recycling requirements or excess tertiary effluent, is discharged to the EWPCF
secondary aeration basins.
Solids and biosolids collected at EWPCF may be trucked to landfills in San Diego County,
California, to land application sites in Yuma County, Arizona, or used in an application
approved by the Executive Officer. All solids separated from wastewater at EWPCF are
treated onsite to meet 40 CFR 503 Pathogen and Vector Attraction Reduction requirements.
Biosolids which are land applied are shipped to agricultural sites by Solids Solutions for
application at Desert Ridge Farms, LLC (2585 East County 19th Street, Yuma, AZ 85365).
4. Leucadia Wastewater District-Gafner Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP)
The Leucadia Wastewater District, a member agency of EWA, independently owns and
operates the Gafner Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP) located at 1960 La Costa Avenue,
Leucadia, approximately 3.5 miles southeasterly of the EWPCF. A portion of secondary
effluent from EWPCF that would otherwise be discharged to the Pacific Ocean is pumped by
LWD's Encina Effluent Pump Station (EEPS) through the Gafner Plant Supply Line (GPSL.
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 92]
ENCINA WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDERNO. R9-2011-0019
ENCINA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107395
formerly the LWD land outfall) to GWRP for tertiary treatment and subsequent water
recycling purposes. The San Diego Water Board issued Order No. R9-2004-0223,
establishing WDRs for reuse of tertiary effluent from GWRP. Wastewater treatment unit
operations and processes at the GWRP consist of filtration and chlorine disinfection only.
The tertiary treatment design capacity of GWRP is 1.0 MGD. The GWRP no longer has a
connection from the sewage collection system to allow for the treatment of raw wastewater,
and secondary treatment facilities at GWRP are no longer operational. Solids and other
waste stream flows from GWRP, including effluent not meeting CCR Title 22 water recycling
requirements, are discharged back to the sewer system and subsequently conveyed and
treated at EWPCF. The GWRP no longer has a land outfall connection to the EOO, and
wastes from GWRP cannot be directly discharged to the EOO. By correspondence da

===PLANNED CHANGES===

