[Page 174]
1996.
In February 2001, the San Diego Water Board filed a complaint in United States District
Court, Southern District of California (Court) against the Discharger, alleging violations of
the federal Clean Water Act and the California Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act at
the Facility. The complaint alleged the Discharger violated the terms of its NPDES Permit
(San Diego Water Board Order No. 96-50/ NPDES Permit CA0108928) by failing to treat the
Facility effluent to secondary treatment standards and by violating other effluent limitations.
On December 6, 2004, the Court issued a final judgment setting a compliance schedule for
the Discharger to meet federal and state requirements for secondary treatment standards by
constructing an activated sludge secondary treatment process at the Facility to improve
effluent quality. Construction of the Facility upgrade was completed in late 2010; however,
the Facility had an adjustment period of about one and a half years and did not start to
consistently achieve substantial compliance with the NPDES Permit secondary treatment
effluent limitations until mid-2012. On June 20, 2013, after about a year of substantial
compliance with

[Page 175]
Mexico International border, is operated by Veolia Water North America.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the SBIWTP consist of three
mechanical bar screens, one grit removal unit, five primary sedimentation tanks with
ferric chloride injection capabilities, polymer injections, seven aeration basins, and 13
secondary clarifiers. The Facility had the capability of adding sodium hypochlorite
(chlorine) at the Effluent Blending Structure (EBS) for continuous disinfection of
secondary effluent. However, the Discharger has not chlorinated secondary effluent
since secondary treatment began at the Facility in 2011, and the Facility would need
infrastructure modifications to again add chlorine at the EBS if needed to protect
beneficial uses. The Order has a Total Residual Chlorine effluent limitation which would
be applicable if chlorine is used in the treatment process. Treated wastewater first flows
through the SBLO and then through the SBOO, where it is discharged to the Pacific
Ocean. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the SBIWTP.
The advanced primary treatment facility has a peak hydraulic capacity of 100 MGD, a
peak design flow rate of 75 MGD, and an average design flow rate of 25 MGD. The
secondary treatment design capacity is 25 MGD with a peaking factor of approximately
2. If flow from the primary treatment units to the secondary treatment units exceeds
49.85 MGD, primary effluent flows exceeding 49.85 MGD bypass the polymer addition
and activated sludge processes and discharge directly to the SBOO. Bypasses are
prohibited unless they meet the requirements contained in Attachment D of this Order,
section 1.7. The reported annual average daily discharge flow between 2016 and 2019
ranges between 22.36 MGD and 24.57 MGD.
Solids from secondary sedimentation tanks are conveyed to three dissolved air flotation
units for thickening. Thickened sludge from the dissolved air flotation units and solids
collected from the primary sedimentation tanks are sent to an on-site solids handling
facility for dewatering using belt-filter presses and lime stabilization. Processed solids
are collected onsite and trucked to Mexico for disposal.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 176]
U.S. International Boundary and Order No. R9-2021-0001
Water Commission As Amended by Order No. R9-2023-0009
South Bay International Wastewater As Amended by Order No. R9-2026-0005
Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
The SBIWTP receives domestic and industrial wastewater from the fo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

