[Page 77]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
FPUD is the owner and operator of FPUD Wastewater Treatment Plant No. 1, the FPUD land
outfall pipeline, and the FPUD sanitary sewer system; together these facilities comprise a
municipal POTW. These facilities are collectively referred to as the FPUD Facilities in this
Order. Order No. R9-2006-002 establishes discharge prohibitions, limitations, and conditions to
regulate discharges of effluent consisting of treated wastewater from the FPUD Facilities to the
Pacific Ocean; these discharges were regulated by Order No. 2000-012 (NPDES Permit No.
CA0108031) that expired on February 9, 2005 and administratively extended until the adoption
of this Order.
FPUD provides for the collection, treatment, and disposal of wastewater generated in the
community of Fallbrook, with an approximate population of 25,000, which represents a portion
of FPUD’s drinking water service area. Additionally, FPUD provides treatment and disposal for
approximately 10,000 gallons of wastewater generated at Fallbrook US Naval Weapons Station,
located adjacent to the community of Fallbrook. FPUD is not required to have an industrial
pretreatment program at this time because WTP1 does not currently receive pollutants from any
industry subject to pretreatment standards and other circumstances do not currently warrant a
pretreatment program.
FPUD WTP1 is located at 1425 Alturas Street in the community of Fallbrook, adjacent to
Fallbrook Creek. Wastewater treatment at WTP1 consists of preliminary treatment by screening
and grit removal, primary sedimentation and scum removal, biological treatment using activated
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F- 5
[Page 78]
FALLBROOK PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NO. 1
ORDER NO. R9-2006-002
NPDES NO. CA0108031
sludge followed by secondary clarification, tertiary treatment by coagulation and flocculation
followed by sand filtration, and chlorine disinfection. WTP1 has a secondary treatment design
capacity of 2.7 MGD and a tertiary treatment design capacity of 3.1 MGD. Typically, all
wastewater entering Plant No. 1 is treated to full tertiary treatment with disinfection. During the
period 1999-2003, approximately 15 to 32 percent of the tertiary effluent from WTP1 was
distributed as recycled water, the discharge of which is covered under separate waste discharge
requirements, Order No. 91-39, Waste Discharge Requirements for Fallbrook Public Utility
District, Plant No.1 and 2 Reclamation Projects, San Diego County. There are approximately 10
recycled water use sites in Fallbrook which are supplied directly from WTP1. All WTP1
effluent not used by recycled water users in Fallbrook is discharged to FPUD’s land outfall
pipeline, a 16-inch diameter ductile iron gravity flow pipeline, which conveys the effluent
approximately 18 miles from Fallbrook to the Oceanside Ocean Outfall (OOO) at the City of
Oceanside’s La Salina Wastewater Treatment Plant site. CalTrans is the final recycled water
user and takes WTP1 effluent from the land outfall pipeline for irrigation of Interstate 5
landscaping within Oceanside. All treated wastewater from WTP1 that is not distributed as
recycled water, hereinafter referred to as effluent, is eventually discharged to the Pacific Ocean
through the OOO. FPUD has an agreement with the City of Oceanside to discharge effluent
through the OOO at a flow rate of up to 2.4 MGD on an annual average basis. Sludge from the
secondary treatment processes at WTP1 is aerobically digested, then dewatered by a belt press
or, if the belt press is inoperative, dewatered in sludge drying beds located within the WTP1
property. The Regional Water Board requested a certification report verifying the design
capacities of WTP1 and the land outfall pipeline as part of the RoWD/application; FPUD
referred the Regional Water Board to the original certification reports from the 1980s.
At the time of adoption, screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal at WTP1
are collected on-site and trucked to landfills in San Diego County. Dewatered treated sludge
[biosolids] from WTP1 is trucked to Corona, California where it is composted to Class A
requirements for land application by Synagro Technologies, Inc. (P.O. Box 7027, Corona, CA
92878-7027).
Over the three-year period between 2001 and 2003 the flowrate of effluent discharged through
the Oceanside Ocean Outfall from WTP1 were reported by FPUD as follows:
Table 2. Historical Flows (MGD)
Fallbrook Public 2001 2002 2003
Utility District
Discharge to the OOO
Annual Average

===PLANNED CHANGES===

