[Page 116]
1. San Luis Rey Water Reclamation Facility (SLRWRF)
The SLRWRF is located at 3950 N. River Road in Oceanside, California, approximately 6.5
miles from the OOO. The headworks of the SLRWRF includes mechanical bar screens and
aerated grit removal. From the headworks, the flow is diverted into the East Plant (also
known as Plant 1) and the West Plant (also known as Plant 2). Plant 1 consists of flow
equalization, primary sedimentation, biological secondary treatment by means of activated
sludge and secondary sedimentation/clarification. Plant 2 consists of primary sedimentation
and biological secondary treatment by means of activated sludge and secondary
sedimentation/clarification. The Discharger may send the Plant 1 effluent to the effluent
pump station wet well or to its tertiary treatment facility for further treatment and reuse. The
Discharger can only send the Plant 2 effluent to the effluent pump station wet well. At the
effluent pump station wet well, the Discharger disinfects the secondary-treated wastewater
with sodium hypochlorite to reduce bacteriological concentrations and pumps the
disinfected secondary-treated wastewater to the OOO. The Discharger can also temporarily
send the disinfected secondary-treated wastewater to the secondary effluent equalization
pond (new emergency pond) to ensure flows discharged from the SLRWRF to the OOO
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 117]
Attachment 1
City of Oceanside Order No. R9-2019-0166
Oceanside Ocean Outfall NPDES No. CA0107433
remain less than the permitted flow through the San Luis Rey Land Outfall. (See section
II.B of this Fact Sheet for more information on the San Luis Rey Land Outfall).
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the peak monthly design capacity of the SLRWRF is
15.4 MGD. This Order carries over the permitted flow of 13.5 MGD from Order No. R9-
2011-0016 (based on the permitted flow from the SLRWRF to the OOO through the San
Luis Rey Land Outfall). From December 2011 to June 2019, the average influent flow into
the SLRWRF was 8.5 MGD and the average effluent flow from the SLRWRF to the OOO
was 8.4 MGD.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from the grit removal are collected onsite and
trucked to a local landfill. The SLRWRF features gravity belt thickeners for thickening
secondary sludge, anaerobic digestion of primary and secondary sludge, and dewatering of
digested sludge using centrifuges. The SLRWRF Class B biosolids are hauled offsite by a
contractor and used for land application in Arizona. The SLRWRF utilizes Option 1
(minimum 38 percent reduction of volatile solids) to reduce vector attraction. The SLRWRF
utilizes Alternative 2 (anaerobic digestion between 15 days at 35-55 °C and 60 days at
20°C) for pathogen reduction.
The SLRWRF also features a tertiary treatment facility that produces recycled water. The
SLRWRF tertiary treatment and recycled water operations are regulated under separate
WDRs, Order No. 93-07, Waste Discharge Requirements for the San Luis Rey Wastewater
Treatment Plant City of Oceanside San Diego County. In 2018, the tertiary-treated
wastewater from the SLRWRF was reused for landscape irrigation (93 million gallons, or an
average of 0.25 MGD) and to maintain water level in Whelan Lake (57 million gallons, or
an average of 0.16 MGD).
2. La Salina Wastewater Treatment Plant (LSWTP)
The LSWTP is located at 1330 Tait Street in Oceanside, California, adjacent to the mouth
of Loma Alta Creek. Secondary treatment process at the LSWTP is accomplished by
mechanical bar screens, aerated grit removal, flow equalization, primary
sedimentation/clarification, and biological secondary treatment by means of activated
sludge and secondary sedimentation/clarification.
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the peak monthly design capacity of the LSWTP is 5.5
MGD. This Order carries over the permitted flow of 5.5 MGD from Order No. R9-2011-
0016. From December 2011 to June 2019, the average influent flow into the LSWTP was
2.8 MGD and the average effluent flow from the LSWTP to the OOO was 2.6 MGD.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from the grit removal are collected onsite and
trucked out of state to Cooper Mountain Landfill in Welton, Arizona. The LSWTP features
dissolved air floatation thickening for secondary sludge, anaerobic digestion of primary and
secondary sludge, and belt filter press dewatering of digested sludge. The LSWTP utilizes
Option 1 (minimum 38 percent reduction of volatile solids) to reduce vector attraction. The
LSWTP utilizes Alternative 1 (monitoring) for pathogen reduction.
3. Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility (MBGPF)
The MBGPF, located northwest of the intersection of Fireside Street and Heritage Street in
Oceanside, California, treats brackish groundwater for municipal potable water supply. The
MBGPF extracts groundwater from the Mission (HSA 903.11) Basin Aquifer (part of the
larger San Luis Rey Valley groundwater basin).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 118]
Attachment 1
City of Oceanside Order No. R9-2019-0166
Oceanside Ocean Outfall NPDES No. CA0107433
Treatment at the MBGPF is comprised of chemical pretreatment (hydrochloric acid and
scale inhibitor), cartridge filtration, reverse osmosis (RO) membrane filtration
(demineralization), granular activated carbon (GAC) for removal and reduction of volatile
organics (i.e. 1,2,3-trichloropropane, 1,2-dichloropropane), degasification (for removal of
hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide gases), and post-treatment disinfection by
chloramination (sodium hypochlorite and ammonium hydroxide).
The primary RO process is designed as a two-stage system with a 75% overall recovery
rate. The permitted combined capacity of the MBGPF is 6.37 MGD. There are two RO units
that can produce up to a maximum of 2.2 MGD permeate each (combined total of 4.4
MGD). The RO permeate passes through the GAC system and then is blended with
groundwater that is treated through a manganese greensand filtration system (for iron and
manganese removal) just upstream of the degasifiers. The manganese greensand filtration
system can produce up to a maximum of 1.97 MGD. Disinfection of the blended product
water occurs after the degasifiers. Backwash waste waters produced by the GAC and
manganese greensand filtration systems are discharged to an underground concrete
holding basin and subsequently pumped to the SLRWRF via a 42-inch sewer force main.
The brine waste (reject) from the primary RO process is discharged into a 24-inch ocean
outline line. At maximum design conditions this results in approximately 1.47 MGD of brine
(reject) waste. From December 2011 to February 2019, the average effluent flow f

===PLANNED CHANGES===

