[Page 35]
1. PERMIT INFORMATION
The following table summarizes administrative information related to the East
County Water Recycling Facility (ECWRF).
Table F-1. Facility Information
WDID 9000004083
Discharger East County Advanced Water Purification Joint Powers Authority
Name of Facility East County Water Recycling Facility (ECWRF)
Facility Address 12001 North Fanita Parkway, Santee, CA 92071
County San Diego
Facility Contact,
Robert Northcote, Plant Manager, (619) 258-4697
Title and Phone
Authorized Person
to Sign and Submit Same as Facility Contact
Reports
Mailing Address 9300 Fanita Parkway, Santee, CA 92071
Billing Address Same as mailing address
Type of Facility Publicly-owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Threat to Water
2
Quality
Complexity B
Pretreatment
Member of City of San Diego’s pretreatment program
Program
Producer
Recycling
recycled water distribution and use under separate water
Requirements
reclamation requirements (WRRs)
Facility Permitted
16 million gallons per day (MGD)
Flow
Facility Design Maximum Design Capacity: 22 MGD, Annual Average Flow: 16
Flow MGD
Hydrologic Unit San Diego Hydrologic Unit (HU, 907)
Hydrologic Area Lower San Diego Hydrologic Area (HA, 907.1)
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-1
[Page 36]
Hydrologic Santee Hydrologic Subarea (HSA, 907.12)
Subarea El Cajon HSA (907.13)
Receiving Water
Groundwater
Type
1.1. The Discharger is a public joint powers authority established pursuant to
California Government Code section 6500 et seq. which consists of the following
member agencies: Padre Dam Municipal Water District (Padre Dam), the City of
El Cajon, and the County of San Diego. The Discharger is the owner of the East
County Advanced Water Purification (ECAWP) project which consists of the
ECWRF, a solids handling facility, the ECAWP Facility, a dechlorination facility,
and potable reuse conveyance facilities, which are collectively referred to as the
Facilities. Attachment B provides a map of the Facilities. Attachment C provides
a flow schematic of the Facilities.
For the purposes of the Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in
applicable federal and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be
equivalent to references to t

[Page 37]
The new 16 MGD ECWRF replaces and is located south of the former Ray
Stoyer WRF. Treatment processes at the ECWRF include:
· Screening and grit removal units at a headworks facility;
· Primary clarifiers with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
· An equalization tank;
· A 4-Stage Bardenpho process for biological nutrient removal;
· Secondary clarifiers with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 38]
· Granular media filters (GMFs);
· Chlorine contact basins (the former Ray Stoyer WRF chlorine contact
basins will be used), and;
· An odor control facility.
2.1.2. Solids Handling Facility
Sludge from the ECWRF primary and secondary clarifiers is treated at a solids
handling facility. The solids handling facility produces Class B biosolids, which
may be: (1) beneficially used outside California or (2) appropriately discharged
to permitted landfill. Treatment processes at the solids handling facility include
rotary drum sludge thickening, anaerobic digestion, digested sludge storage,
centrifuge dewatering, cake storage and loadout facilities, and biogas handling.
Sludge is thickened before being fed to the anaerobic digesters. The digested
sludge is then dewatered and the centrate from dewatering gravity flows to a
residuals bypass pump station. Thickened supernatant is returned to the
ECWRF for treatment, while centrate is discharged to the Metro System via a
residuals bypass pipeline and East County Residual Line.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
The Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, ch

===PLANNED CHANGES===

