[Page 175]
The ECAWP Project dismantled the majority of the Roy Stoyer WRF and replaced
it with the new 16 MGD ECWRF. The treatment processes at the ECWRF
includes, in order of flow:
· Screening and grit removal units.
· Primary clarifiers, with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal.
· An equalization tank.
· Bioreactors for nutrient removal, that include a 4-stage Bardenpho process.
· Secondary clarifiers, with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
· Granular media filters (GMFs);
· A chlorine contact basin (remnant from the former Ray Stoyer WRF chlorine
contact basins).
· An odor control unit.
During normal operation, final effluent produced from the ECWRF will serve: 1) as
the source water for the ECAWP Facility, and 2) non-potable customers. The
production and reuse of tertiary treated disinfected non-potable recycled
wastewater will be regulated under separate WDRs and WRRs, as requested by
the Discharger.
2.1.2. Solids Handling Facility
The ECAWP JPA will treat sludge from the ECWRF primary and secondary
clarifiers at the Solids Handling Facility. The Solids Handling Facility will produce
Class B solids for beneficial use outside the state of California or for landfill
disposal. The treatment processes at the Solids Handling Facility includes a rotary
drum for sludge thickening, anaerobic digestion, digested sludge storage,
centrifuge dewatering, cake storage and loadout facilities, and biogas handling.
Sludge will be thickened before being fed to the anaerobic digesters. The digested
sludge will be dewatered and the centrate from dewatering will gravity flow to a
residuals bypass pump station. Thickener supernatant will be returned to the
ECWRF for treatment, while centrate will be discharged to the Metro System via a
residuals bypass pipeline.
2.1.3. ECAWP Facility
The ECAWP Facility will treat up to 15.2 MGD of tertiary filtered effluent from the
ECWRF to produce a maximum flow of 13.7 MGD of advanced treated recycled
water. The ECAWP JPA will direct a maximum of 12.5 MGD of advanced treated
recycled water to Lake Jennings and will direct the remainder to Santee Lakes.
The anticipated average annual product water flow to Lake Jennings will be about
11.5 MGD. Treatment processes at the ECAWP Facility consists of MF, reverse
osmosis, ultraviolet light with advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP) and post-
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 176]
ECAWP JPA Order No. R9-2025-0003
Discharges to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek NPDES No. CA900001
stabilization. The ECAWP JPA will minimize corrosion and treatability issues, by
using a post-stabilization treatment of carbon dioxide and hydrated lime to adjust
the product water pH to between 7.5 and 8.5 pH units and to elevate

[Page 177]
WRF ceased all discharges and was removed from service in May 2025.
Currently, the ECAWP Project will direct dechlorinated effluent from the ECAWP
Facility to Santee Lakes and Sycamore Creek, replacing the effluent discharge
from the Ray Stoyer WRF. The ECAWP JPA will direct the following types of
discharges from the ECAWP Facility to Santee Lakes and Sycamore Creek
(Discharge Location 002):
· Routine discharges of dechlorinated ECWRF/ECAWP Facility recycled water
to Lake No. 7 in order to maintain lake water levels and make up for
evaporative or other water losses in the lakes.
· If required, short-term discharges of “off specification” effluent from ECAWP
Facility that meets requirements for discharge to the Santee Lakes
(Discharge Location 002) but does not meet State Water Resources Control
Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW) requirements for discharge to Lake
Jennings (Discharge Location 001). Such off-specification dischar

===PLANNED CHANGES===

