[Page 102]
1. Publicly Owned Treatment Works. The Discharger provides municipal wastewater
treatment services to a population of approximately 180,000 within the boundaries of
the City of Oceanside. Additionally, the SLRWRF serves a population of
approximately 10,000 within the Rainbow Municipal Water District. The Rainbow
Municipal Water District owns 1.5 MGD of the City of Oceanside's treatment
capacity, and is responsible for its sanitary sewer system up to the point where it
connects with the Oceanside sanitary sewer system. To reduce pumping costs, the
City of Oceanside has an agreement with the City of Vista for the exchange,
treatment, and disposal of equal volumes of nonindustrial wastewater generated in
the respective service areas. There are nine significant industrial users within the
City of Oceanside and none within the portions of the City of Vista and Rainbow
Municipal Water District that are served by the Discharger.
The LSWTP is located at 1330 South Tait Street in the City of Oceanside, adjacent
to the mouth of Loma Alta Creek. Wastewater treatment unit operations and
processes at LSWTP consist of preliminary treatment by mechanical bar screening,
flow equalization, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, and biological
treatment using activated sludge followed by secondary clarification. Treated
wastewater is discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the OOO. Secondary
treatment design capacity at LSWTP is currently 5.5 MGD average daily flow. The
annual average daily flow at LSWTP in 2009 was 3.0 MGD.
The SLRWRF is located at 3950 North River Road in the City of Oceanside, north of
the San Luis Rey River. The SLRWRF consists of an East Plant treatment train and
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 103]
CITY OF OCEANSIDE ORDER NO. R9-2011-0016
OCEANSIDE OCEAN OUTFALL AS AMENDED BY ORDER NOS. R9-2012-0042, R9-2012-0060,
AND R9-2014-0108
NPDES NO. CA0107433
a West Plant treatment train. Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes
at SLRWRF consist of preliminary treatment by mechanical bar screening, aerated
grit removal, flow equalization, primary sedimentation, and biological treatment using
activated sludge followed by secondary clarification. Treated wastewater is
discharged through the OOO via a 24-inch land outfall pipeline which connects the
SLRWRF with the OOO. The SLRWRF also produces up to 0.7 MGD of disinfected
tertiary effluent recycled water, the discharge of which is currently covered under
Order No. 93-07, Waste Discharge Requirements for the San Luis Rey Water
Reclamation Facility, City of Oceanside, San Diego County. Secondary treatment
design capacity at SLRWRF is currently 15.4 MGD as a maximum 30-day average
daily flow and 13.5 MGD as an annual design average. The actual annual average
daily flow at SLRWRF in 2009 was 9.0 MGD.
As part of the ROWD, the Discharger submitted a report certifying the capacities of
the facilities. At the time of adoption, screenings from the headworks and solids
from grit removal at LSWTP and SLRWRF are collected on-site and trucked to
landfills in Yuma County, Arizona. Sludge from the secondary treatment facilities is
thickened by gravity belt thickeners (SLRWRF) and by dissolved air floatation
(LSWTP). Both sludges are anaerobically digested and dewatered. Dewatered
sludge is hauled to a land application site by a contractor.
2. Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility. The MBGPF, located
northwest of the intersection of Fireside Street and Heritage Street in Oceanside,
treats groundwater for municipal potable water supply. The facility extracts
groundwater from the Mission Hydrologic Subarea (HSA) (3.11) and provides
treatment consisting of pH adjustment, filtration, and demineralization by reverse
osmosis. The MBGPF consists of two treatment trains. Up to 2.1 MGD of
groundwater undergoes iron and manganese removal, air stripping, and disinfection.
Wastewaters from these processes are discharged to the sanitary sewer and do not
contribute to the effluent discharged to the OOO. Up to 5.8 MGD of groundwater
undergoes chemical addition and cartridge filtration prior to being pumped to two
reverse osmosis trains. The product water from the reverse osmosis treatment
trains then undergoes air stripping and disinfection, prior to potable use. The only
discharge from the MBGPF to the OOO is brine from the reverse osmosis treatment
process. See Attachment C of this Order for a flow diagram of the MBGPF.
Waste brines generated at MBGPF are conveyed to the OOO. The MBGPF has a
potable water production design capacity of 6.37 MGD which results in less than 2
MGD of waste brine per day. The annual average daily flow of waste brine from
MBGPF to the OOO during 2005 through 2009 ranged from approximately 0.2 MGD
to 1.3

===PLANNED CHANGES===

