[Page 3]
I. DESCRIPTION OF THE FACILITY
The Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant is owned and operated by the County of San Diego, San Diego
County Sanitation District, and is located in the town of Julian, California approximately 60 miles from
the City of San Diego, and approximately one mile West of downtown Julian. The topography of the
treatment plant site is mainly flat along the southern border and the areas immediately adjacent to the
treatment facilities, but is moderately undulating throughout the rest of the site. The 14-acre JWWTP
provides secondary treatment of raw wastewater coming primarily from the town’s business area.
Wastewater from the town of Julian initially flows through an eight-inch sewer main into the
equalization tank for pre-treatment. The flow from the tank is measured by a channel-type flow meter,
located in a manhole upstream of the headworks structure. The headworks are housed in a 5 feet x 10
feet below-grade concrete tank, with dual channels and bar screens. Afterwards, the wastewater flows
into the aeration tanks. The aeration tanks consist of two 53 feet x 53 feet below-grade concrete basins,
each equipped with a floating mechanical aerator to facilitate complete mix, extended aeration
secondary treatment. The wastewater then flows to the secondary clarifiers for sludge settling and
removal, which consist of two 18 feet diameter concrete tanks. The settled sludge from the clarifiers is
then routed to the Return Activated Sludge (RAS)/Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) pump station. The
pump station is comprised of two rotary lobe pumps housed in a concrete vault capable of returning or
wasting the settled sludge from the secondary clarifiers. Most of the settled sludge is treated as RAS,
which is pumped back into the aeration tank which aides in the continued processing of the influent.
The WAS is pumped to the aerobic digester tanks. The RAS/WAS pump station is also fitted with a
flowmeter. The aerobic digesters are two 18 feet x 18 feet above-ground concrete tanks where the
sludge digestion process is completed. Once digestion is complete, the WAS is sent to the Sludge Drying
Beds until it becomes dry enough to haul away to an appropriate landfill. Any excess wet sludge during
Winter months are hauled off to City of San Diego Pump Station 1.
From the clarifiers, the effluent flows into the effluent wetwell, and from the wetwell, the effluent is
pumped into the two effluent storage basins. The storage basins are below-grade concrete lined ponds
with a total capacity of 225,000 cubic feet of storage, roughly equal to 67 days of treated effluent at an
average daily flow rate of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd). The clarified effluent is pumped to an adjacent
field on the site and used for spray irrigation. The volume of effluent sprayed is tracked using a
flowmeter attached to the irrigation pumps.
Per the Notice of applicability for Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ, Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant, the
discharge of an effluent containing pollutants in excess of the following effluent limitations presented in
Table 1 is prohibited:
Table 1. Effluent Discharge Limits per Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ for Julian WWTP
Constituent Unit Monthly Avg. 7-Day Avg
Daily Flowrate gpd 80,000 -
BOD mg/L 30 45
TSS mg/L 30 45
Total Nitrogen as Nitrogen mg/L 50% (annual) -
[Page 4]
Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant
Figure 1. Project Location ‐ Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant
FACILITY LOCATION
[Page 5]
Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant
Figure 2. Process Flow Diagram for Julian WWTP
[Page 6]
Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant
Figure 3. Julian Sewer Service Area
[Page 7]
Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant
II. OPERATION AND CONTROL OF THE FACILITY
The Julian WWTP is operated by the State certified Grade II operator as a chief operator and the State
certified Grade V operator as a facility supervisor. The facility is maintained and inspected by the chief
operator daily during weekdays. During weekends and holidays, operation staffs only respond to
emergency situations such as power outage, electrical and mechanical equipment failure and
notification by park rangers. See below for the Regular Operational Procedures. The facility is included
County-wide wastewater supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) network, which enables the
operators to monitor the conditions of the facility and control the operations remotely.
Daily Routine
1. Check mechanical equipment
2. Check electric panel
3. Check aerator process trains visually
4. Check effluent storage pond/percolation field area
5. General housekeeping
6. Measure flow
Weekly/Monthly
Aerators Lab Test
1. Take DO each aerator and raw
2. Take DO each final
3. Take pH each final
4. Take Temperature of sewage in raw
5. Take settleable solids each tank and raw
Monitoring
1. Perform monthly effluent and influent monitoring required per the permit
Irrigation Pumps (Main & Standby)
1. Use main pump to keep ponds pumped down
2. Check pump and motor operation
3. Check seal water
Housekeeping
1. Keep the site clean
2. Clean weed and trash from compound
3. Clean rag screen on aerator influent lines
4. Wash down aerators and finals. Add chlorine, if odor problems
Semi-Annually
1. Clean lower pond out completely by utilizing septic tank pump truck. Clean weeds from
ponds and berm in upper pond
[Page 8]
Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant
Annually
1. Grease all irrigation pumps and motors
2. Perform groundwater monitoring per the permit
Manual Power Shut-Down
1. Turn Off main power breaker inside of compound
2. Reverse procedure for re-start
III. SLUDGE HANDLING
Sludge generated from the treatment process is regularly hauled offsite from sludge drying Beds to
an approved landfill where it is used as alternative daily cover. The sludge may also be hauled
offsite to the City of San Diego’s Pump Station #1 under the Industrial Waste Permit # 25-0015-25A
or the alternative #25-0128-18A. Monthly average volume of the sludge removed from the facility is
approximately 11,000 to 15,000 gallons and is included in quarterly reports submitted to State. The
City issued ‘Trucked Indus

===PLANNED CHANGES===

