[Page 6]
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
City of Solvang Wastewater treatment Facility wastewater treatment facility (Wastewater
System) is a Class IV wastewater system. City of Solvang must staff a Class IV chief
plant operator for proper operation of the Wastewater System. The current chief plant
operator is Nathan Giacinto, Grade IV, License Number 10031.
The Wastewater System is capable of treating a 1.5 million gallons per day to a
secondary treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment
technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Mechanical bar screen, screenings grinder,
Headworks/Preliminary
compactor/washer and vortex grit separator.
Treatment
Headworks capacity (gpd): 1,500,000
None. All wastewater sent directly to sequencing batch
Primary Treatment reactor process.
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): Not applicable.
The facility uses a sequencing batch reactor performing
activated sludge secondary treatment. There are three
seperate reactors working is sequence performing
equalization, biological treatment, and secondary
clarification. The facility typically operates with two of the
three tanks, within the following process:
- Each reactor is capable of treating 500,000 gpd.
- Each tank completes 2 to 3 cycles per 24-hour period
depending on flow.
- Each tank starts with a mixed and aerated fill cycle.
- The air is controlled by dissolved oxygen and oxidation-
Secondary Treatment
reduction potential set points.
- When the tank reaches optimum oxidation potential the
air is shut off temporarily to allow for denitrification.
- The react cycle continues the air cycles without any more
fill to ensure the wastewater is completely treated.
- After the react cycle, the tank goes into settle mode.
- The treated water is decanted off the top with a floating
decanter.
- Lastly, the waste sludge cycle pulls sludge from the
bottom of the tank and sends it to the aerobic digester.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 1,500,000
Not Applicable
Tertiary Treatment
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): Not Applicable
Disinfection Not Applicable
[Page 7]
City of Solvang - 3 - October 19, 2023
Wastwater Treatment Facility
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): Not Applicable
Treated effluent is discharged into a 1-acre-foot lined
polishing pond and then flows into one of two percolation
basins. The primary percolation basin has a capacity of 1.4
Wastewater Disposal
acre-feet. The second percolation basin has a capacity of
Method
0.75 acre-feet. The percolation basins undergo annual
cleanning and bottom ripping.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 1,500,000
Biosolids are sent to an aerobic digester. Approximately
150,000 gallons of digestate is dewatered three days a
week primarily on a three belt two meter Ashbrook Belt
Filter Press. A cationic polymer is added to the digestate
onto the belt press. Filtrate is captured under the prese
Biosolids/Sludge and drains back to the facility influent sump pit. The press
Production and produces cake between 15% and 18% solids. The cake is
Handling loaded into roll off bins and is trucked to Engel
and Gray in Santa Maria where it is composted and
repurposed as fertilizer.
Annual production of biosolids: approximately 1,260 tons
Biosolids produced are collected by Engel & Gray, Inc. and
transported to 745 Betteravia Road, Santa Maria.
Non-potable recycled
Not Applicable
water produced onsite:
Recycled water usage
Not Applicable
Non-Potable Recycled areas:
Water
Enrolled in WQ 2016-
Not Applicable
0068-DDW:
Recycled water production
N

===PLANNED CHANGES===

