[Page 1]
T19N, R3E, MDB&M in Butte County.
The Facility discharges approximately 30,000 gallons per day of municipal wastewater, which
consists of headworks and four unlined ponds encompassing approximately 20 acres.
Municipal wastewater from Richvale flows by gravity to headworks, which includes a parshall
flume for flow measurement, wet well, and lift station. Two grinder pumps run in lead-lag mode
and are float actuated conveying influent into two flow distribution boxes. The flow is conveyed
in parallel, equal flows into two facultative lagoons with an approximately 30-day retention time.
The Facility is also equipped with two land disposal basins that are fed by gravity from the
facultative lagoons in the event that the lagoons exceed two feet freeboard.
The underlying soil is primarily Stockton Clay Adobe with an essentially impervious hard pan at
3 to 12 feet, with a depth to groundwater at 6 to 8 feet. There are three groundwater monitoring
wells onsite.
This is an existing facility; therefore, enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to

[Page 4]
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ ENROLLMENT
Staff has reviewed the case file and the 28 November 2017 inspection Report for Richvale’s
Wastewater Treatment Facility (Facility). The Report assesses the general condition of the
wastewater treatment system and ponds. The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance
documentation and treatment infrastructure appears in working order. The collection system sees a
significant increase in flows due to inflow and infiltration in the collection system.
The Facility discharges approximately 30,000 gallons per day of municipal wastewater to four
unlined ponds and encompasses approximately 20 acres.
Municipal wastewater from Richvale flows by gravity to headworks, which includes a parshall flume
for flow measurement, wet well, and lift station. Two grinder pumps run in lead-lag mode and are
float actuated conveying influent into two flow distribution boxes. The flow is conveyed in parallel,
equal flows into two facultative lagoons with an approximately 30 day retention time. The Facility is
also equipped with two land disposal basins that are fed by gravity from the facultative lagoons in
the event that the lagoons exceed two feet freeboard.
The underlying soil is primarily Stockton Clay Adobe with an essentially impervious hard pan at
3 to 12 feet, with a depth to groundwater at 6 to 8 feet. There are three groundwater monitoring
wells onsite.
Potential Threats to Water Quality
The wastewater ponds are adjacent to two agricultural canals, Gravity Lateral to the south and High
Gravity Lateral to the northeast. Depth to groundwater in the area is approximately 6 to 8 feet, with
groundwater surfacing in the land disposal basin during storm events. The Facility is surrounded by
agricultural land, predominantely rice. The closest drinking water well is greater than 500 feet from
the lagoons and basins.
Due to the permeable ponds and shallow groundwater, Order 94-361 required the installation of
three groundwater monitoring wells, which are tested for BOD, specific conductance, and total
[Page 5]
Richvale Sanitary District 2 26 April 2018
coliform quarterly. The groundwater flow direction is unknown; the Groundwater Information Center
Interactive Map Application indicates that Richvale and the surrounding area has a regio

===PLANNED CHANGES===

