[Page 54]
2. Collection System. The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from the City of San
Mateo collection system, the City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 55]
City of San Mateo and Order No. R2-2018-0016
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES No. CA0037541
collection system, and four satellite collection systems, all of which are separate sewer
systems. The City of San Mateo collection system is comprised of approximately 237 miles
of publicly-owned pipes and 27 pump stations. The City of Foster City Estero Municipal
Improvement District collection system is comprised of approximately 66 miles of publicly-
owned pipes and 49 pump stations. The satellite collection systems that contribute to the City
of San Mateo collection system are the City of Belmont (approximately 90 miles of publicly-
owned pipes), Crystal Springs Sanitation District (approximately 19 miles of publicly-owned
pipes), Town of Hillsborough (approximately 98 miles of publicly-owned pipes), and County
of San Mateo Tower Road Complex (approximately 2.4 miles of publicly-owned pipes).
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 15.7 million gallons per day (MGD). In the 2017 dry season (May 1
to October 31), the plant treated an average daily dry weather flow of 10.0 MGD. The plant
treatment process consists of primary clarification, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection.
During peak wet weather, when influent exceeds the plant’s peak wet weather design
capacity of 40 MGD, the plant routes a portion of its wastewater from its primary clarifiers
directly to its chlorine disinfection tank (bypassing activated sludge aeration and secondary
clarification) where it is mixed with secondary treated wastewater prior to discharge.
Discharge Prohibition II.B of the Order prohibits these bypasses.
The Discharger is undertaking plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet section II.E). When completed,
the plant will provide preliminary screening, grit removal, fine screening, primary
clarification, biological nutrient removal, filtration with activated sludge treatment (through a
membrane bioreactor), and chlorine disinfection. During peak wet weather, when flows
exceed the capacity of the biological nutrient removal and membrane bioreactor system
(ranging from 31.5 MGD as a daily average flow and 42 MGD as a peak flow), the plant will
chemically enhance the primary clarification process to reduce loading in the membrane
bioreactor. After chemically-enhanced primary clarification, the portion of flows above the
membrane bioreactor capacity will be routed to a contact tank and mixed with activated
sludge for biological treatment. Some primary clarifiers will function as secondary clarifiers
to treat the re-routed wastewater after biological treatment. The portion of wastewater routed
through the biological contact tank will be mixed with wastewater treated by the membrane
bioreactor during chlorine disinfection. This treatment configuration is not considered a
bypass because all wastewater will receive biological treatment. This will allow the plant to
treat peak wet weather flows up to 60 MGD. The Discharger will be able to manage peak wet
weather flows of up to 78 MGD by storing screened wastewater in an onsite equalization
basin. Attachment C provides flow schematics for the current treatment plant and the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgraded plant under both dry-weather and wet-weather operations.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge with gravity
thickeners and waste-activated sludge through dissolved air flotation, treats the thickened sludge
with anaerobic digestion, dewaters the digested sludge with a centrifuge, and hauls the
dewatered, treated biosolids offsite for disposal. The plant upgrades will not affect the sludge
and biosolids processes.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 56]
City of San Mateo and Order No. R2-2018-0016
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES No. CA0037541
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures most stormwater within the plant’s storm
drain sy