[Page 4]
II. FINDINGS
The Regional Water Board finds:
A. Background. The South Co~~nRtye gional Wastewater Authority (SCRWA, hereinafter the
Discharger) is discharging treated municipal wastewater pursuant to Order No. R3-2004-
0099 and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No.
CA0049964. The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge, dated March 9,
2009, and applied to renew its NPDES permit to discharge up to 8.5 MGD (average dry
weather flow) of secondary treated wastewater from the South County Regional
Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility (Reclamation Plant). The application was
deemed complete on May 14, 2009, by Regional Water Board staff.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the "discharger" or "permittee" in applicable
federal and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references
to the Discharger herein.
B. Facility Description. The Cities of Gilroy and Morgan Hill own and maintain wastewater
collection systems within each respective city. An interceptor sewer owned and
maintained by the City of Gilroy conveys wastewater from the two cities to the
Reclamation Plant, which is owned by the SCRWA and operated by CH2M Hill OMI. The
reclamation plant's design secondary treatment capacities are 8.5 million gallons per day
(MGD, average dry weather flow) and 10.2 MGD (average wet weather flow) and its
tertiary trea.tment capacity is 9.0 MGD. Secondary treated wastewater is land applied at
Discharge Point 001 to percolation ponds adjacent to Llagas Creek. Tertiary treated
wastewater is used to irrigate farmlands and may be discharged at Discharge Point 002 to
the Pajaro River.
Limitations and Discharge Requirements
[Page 5]
SOUTH COUNTY REGIONAL WASTEWATER AUTHORITY R3-2010-0009
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0049964
Secondary treatment is accomplished with two parallel treatment sequences, each
including four pre-anoxic basins, an aerated oxidation ditch, and a secondary clarifier. A
post-anoxic basin and a reaeration basin serve both sequences before disposal in the
ponds or delivery to tertiary treatment, which includes filtration and
chlorination/dechlorination processes.
Secondary treated wastewater is distributed from Discharge Point 001 to 37 percolation
ponds, which are adjacent to Llagas Creek. The Discharger irrigates onsite landscaping
with reclaimed wastewater, which also supplies the fire protection system. The Discharger
delivers most of the reclaimed water offsite for irrigation or industrial cooling by the City of
Gilroy Parks, the Calpine Cogeneration Facility, the Gilroy Golf Course, the Eagle Ridge
Golf Course, Obata Farms, and the McCarthy Business Park. Under emergency
conditions during wet weather events, tertiary treated wastewater may also be discharged
at Discharge Point 002 to the Pajaro River. During the 2004 - 2008 time period, there
were no discharges at this outfall. During the five year term of this Order, ultraviolet
disinfection capability and a new outfall line will be installed to manage discharges to the
Pajaro River.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Reclamation Plant and disposal
ponds. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order is issued pursuant to CWA section 402 and implementing
regulations adopted by the USEPA and Chapter 5.5, Division 7 of the California Water
Code (CWC), commencing with section 13370. It shall serve as an NPDES permit for
point source discharges from this facility to surface waters. This Order also serves as

===PLANNED CHANGES===

