[Page 74]
Oceanside Plant
43 MGD, average dry weather design flow (providing secondary treatment)
Facility Design Flow
65 MGD maximum wet weather design flow (providing secondary treatment
for 43 MGD, and primary treatment for an additional 22 MGD)
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 75]
City and County of San Francisco ORDER NO. R2-2009-0062
Oceanside WPCP and Westside Wet Weather Facilities NPDES NO. CA0037681
Westside Wet Weather Facilities
Collection system flows greater than 65 MGD and less than 175 MGD
receive the equivalent of wet weather primary treatment in the Westside
Wet Weather Facilities (storage/transports) and are discharged at the
Southwest Ocean Outfall. Flows greater than 175 MGD receive the
equivalent of wet weather primary treatment in the Westside Wet Weather
Facilities and are discharged at authorized combined sewer overflow
discharge (CSOD) points.
Watershed San Mateo Coastal
Receiving Water Pacific Ocean
Receiving Water Type Ocean waters
A. The City and County of San Francisco (hereinafter the Discharger) is the owner and
operator of the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant (Plant) and Westside Wet
Weather Facilities, a publicly owned treatments works (POTW). For the purposes of this
Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable federal and State laws,
regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references to the Discharger
herein.
B. The facility discharges wastewater to the Pacific Ocean, waters of the United States, and
is currently regulated by Order No. R2-2003-0073, which was adopted on August 20,
2003, expiring on September 30, 2008.
C. On March 28, 2008, the Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and submitted an
application for renewal of its Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) and National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Discharger is the owner and operator of the Oceanside Plant and its associated
collection system, a combined sewer system that includes the Westside Wet Weather
Facilities. The collection system includes approximately 300 miles of sewer pipes on the
west side watershed of the city that covers the areas of Richmond, Sunset, and Lake
Merced as well as a small portion of Daly City. The system also includes four all
weather pump stations, Seacliff #1, Seacliff #2, Pine Lake and Westside and two wet
weather pump stations, Seacliff #3 and the Zoo Wet-Weather Lift Station. There are no
satellite systems.
Treatment at the Oceanside Plant, which has a peak secondary treatment capacity of
43 MGD, includes coarse screening at the Westside Pump Station, fine screening and
grit removal at the Plant headworks, primary sedimentation, activated sludge treatment
by a pure oxygen process, and secondary clarification. Secondary treated wastewater is
discharged to the Pacific Ocean, 3.4 to 3.6 nautical miles offshore, at Discharge Point
001 - the Southwest Ocean Outfall. These receiving waters are waters of the United
States but are beyond the territorial waters of the State of California. During wet
weather periods of high influent flow, the Oceanside Plant can provide primary
treatment for an additional 22 MGD of influent flow, which, following treatment, is
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 76]
City and County of San Francisco ORDER NO. R2-2009-0062
Oceanside WPCP and Westside Wet Weather Facilities NPDES NO. CA0037681
blended with secondary treated wastewater (i.e., a total treatment capacity of 65 MGD)
and discharged at Discharge Point 001.
The Discharger’s collection system includes three large storage/transport structures –
the Westside Transport, a 49.3 million gallon box-like structure located beneath the
Great Highway; the Richmond Transport, a 12 million gallon structure located to the
north; and the Lake Merced Transport, a 10 million gallon structure located to the south.
The combined storage capacity of these “Westside Wet Weather Facilities” is 73.5
million gallons, which includes 2.2 million gallons of capacity within the sewer lines.
Collection system flows that exceed the Oceanside Plant’s treatment capacity of 65
MGD, are stored in the Westside Wet Weather Facilities, which provide the equivalent
of wet weather primary treatment through solids settling, skimming of floatable solids,
and screening at pump stations. Combined wastewater from the storage/transport
structures is pumped via the Westside Pump Station to Discharge Point 001, until the
pumping capacity of the combined sewer system facilities to the outfall is reached at
175 MGD. Combined wastewater flows greater than 175 MGD also receive (the
equivalent of wet weather primary treatment) treatment in the storage/transport
structures but are discharged at the seven, near-shore combined sewer overflow
discharge structures, authorized by this Order. These receiving waters are waters of the
United States and territorial waters of the State of California. To be considered a
discrete combined sewer overflow discharge event, the combined sewer overflow
discharge must be separated b

===PLANNED CHANGES===

