[Page 72]
Plant at the San Francisco International Airport and the associated wastewater
collection systems. The Mel Leong Treatment Plant consists of a sanitary
wastewater treatment plant (Sanitary Plant) and an industrial wastewater
treatment plant (Industrial Plant) and discharges effluent to the NBSU forcemain.
The NBSU is a joint powers authority that includes the cities of Burlingame,
Millbrae, South San Francisco, and San Bruno, and the City and County of San
Francisco acting by and through its Airport Commission. The NBSU owns and
operates the effluent forcemain, the combined effluent pumping station, effluent
dechlorination facilities, and the deepwater outfall. For the purposes of this Order,
the Sanitary Plant, the Industrial Plant, and their associated collection systems,
and the NBSU forcemain, combined effluent pumping station, dechlorination
facilities, and deepwater outfall, are collectively referred to as the “Facility.”
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in
applicable federal and State laws, regulations, plans, or policies are held to be
equivalent to references to the Discharger herein.
1.2. The Discharger is regulated pursuant to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES

[Page 74]
Industrial Plant, possibly using the four detention basins described below for
equalization.
The first flush of stormwater runoff from terminals, taxiways, tarmacs, and
aircraft and vehicle parking is collected in the stormwater collection system,
which consists of approximately 91 miles of piping and 19 pump stations, and
then routed to one of four detention basins: the North Field Detention Basin
(0.25 MG), the South Field Detention Basin (1.5 MG), the West Field Detention
Basin (6.1 MG), and the East Field Detention Basin (0.5 MG). All water entering
these basins is pumped to the Industrial Plant for treatment. When the basins
are full, the excess runoff is discharged directly to San Francisco Bay through
one of nine stormwater outfalls.
Runoff from a few active airport areas is not collected in basins but is either
pumped to the Industrial Plant or discharged directly to San Francisco Bay
through the stormwater collection system. In general, runoff from runways and
some portions of taxi ways is discharged directly to San Francisco Bay after
flowing through grassy runway medians. The Discharger routinely removes
rubber and possible contaminants on runways that may be left after plane
landings. Deicing fluids, used to defrost planes, could be used at any gate
depending on the destination of the departing aircraft but, in practice, are
infrequently used. To prevent deicing fluid from entering the storm drain system,
the Discharger requires that adjacent storm drains be covered prior to the start
of deicing operations and that a vacuum scrubber be used to remove any
residual fluid left on the pavement for treatment at the Industrial Plant.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The Sanitary Plant treatment operations consist of
punched plate screens, grit removal, flow equalization, biological treatment
using sequencing batch reactors, effluent flow equalization, and chlorination.
Solids from the sanitary wastewater treatment process are thickened by gravity
belt thickeners, treated with anaerobic digestion, and primarily dewatered with
centrifuges before being hauled offsite for reuse. The facility also has a belt
filter press and drying beds that can be used for additional dewatering when
centrifuges are unavailable. Over the previous permit term, the sanitary
treatment plants headworks was replaced. The Discharger upgraded
odor/hydrogen sulfide removal, screening, grit removal, the digester gas
system, dewatering equipment, and electrical distribution.
During the previous order, the Discharger completed upgrades to its industrial
treatment operations and decommissioned old units on February 12, 2020. The
Industrial Plant treatment operations consist of flow equalization, flocculation,
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 75]
City and County of San Francisco Airport Commission and NBSU Order R2-2025-0002
San Francisco International Airport, Mel Leong Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0038318
dissolved air flotation, pH adjustment (as needed), ozone, BAF (Biologically
Active Filtration), and chlorination. In addition to the flow equalization tank at the
start of the industrial wastewater treatment process, the Discharger may use
the four detention basins described in Fact Sheet section 2.1.2, above, to store
industrial wastewater and stormwater, thereby providing a steady flow to the
Industrial Plant for recycled water production. The Discharger primarily uses the
West Field Basin for this purpose because it has the largest capacity. After
equalization, the Discharger adds coagulants and polymers to flocculate the
combined industrial wastewater and any incoming first flush of stormwater.
Solids from the industrial wastewater treatment process are collected from the
dissolved air flotation unit and dewatered with a centrifuge or drying beds
before being hauled offsite for disposal. The chlorinated effluent from both
plants is combined at a pumping station and discharged to the NBSU pipeline,
which transports treated wastewater to the South San Francisco and San Bruno
Water Quality Control Plant for dechlorination using sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge to Lower San Francisco Bay from Discharge Point 002. All treatment
steps are shown in the process flow diagrams in Attachment C.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The dewatering and disposal of biosolids
from the Sanitary Plant and Industrial Plant are separate. Biosolids from the
Sanitary Plant are treated by gravity belt thickening and anaerobic digestion,
then dewatered with centrifuges or air-dried using sludge drying beds. Final
sludge cake and air-dried sludge is transported to a composting facility. Sludge
and scum from the Industrial Plant are pumped to separate sludge beds or
centrifuges for dewatering. The dried industrial waste sludge is trucked offsite
and used as daily cover at a landfill.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. This Order covers stormwater discharges from
certain areas of the airport. Stormwater from tarmac areas in excess of the
available storage capacity in the detention basins is discharged directly to San
Francisco Bay. Several airport areas are occupied by tenants, and all tenants
are prohibited by the airport’s rules and regulations from generating any
unauthorized d

[Page 82]
Over the next permit term, the Discharger will add an aerobic granular sludge
process to its sequencing batch reactors at the Sanitary Plant. The Discharger
completed a pilot study from October 2020 through April 2021 evaluating the
effectiveness of the aerobic granular sludge technology and found that the process
will enhance nitrification, denitrification, and biological phosphorus uptake.
The Discharger also plans to begin construction in 2024 on an Advanced Water
Treatment Plant that will include membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and UV
disinfection to treat combined effluent from the Industrial and Sanitary Plants and
provide an average of 1.0 MGD of recycled water for use within the San Francisco
Airport for toilet flushing, irrigation, cooling water, industrial water, vehicle washing,
and dust control. Additionally, the Discharger plans to test PFAS removal by
treating combined effluent from the Industrial and Sanitary Plants with granular
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-14
[Page 83]
City and County of San Francisco Airport Commission and NBSU Order R2-2025-0002
San Francisco International Airport, Mel Leong Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0038318
activated carbon and, if necessary, ion exchange resins. Finally, the Discharger
plans to begin construction on a new pipeline to the NBSU outfall during the permit
term.
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The Discharger’s Shoreline Protection Program is expected to protect the facility
against a 100-year storm as defined by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA). The Discharger plans to install concrete-capped steel sheet pile
walls and steel king pi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete several projects during this permit term. These
changes are authorized by Provision 6.3.5.3.
Over the next permit term, the Discharger will add an aerobic granular sludge
process to its sequencing batch reactors at the Sanitary Plant. The Discharger
completed a pilot study from October 2020 through April 2021 evaluating the
effectiveness of the aerobic granular sludge technology and found that the process
will enhance nitrification, denitrification, and biological phosphorus uptake.
The Discharger also plans to begin construction in 2024 on an Advanced Water
Treatment Plant that will include membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and UV
disinfection to treat combined effluent from the Industrial and Sanitary Plants and
provide an average of 1.0 MGD of recycled water for use within the San Francisco
Airport for toilet flushing, irrigation, cooling water, industrial water, vehicle washing,
and dust control. Additionally, the Discharger plans to test PFAS removal by
treating combined effluent from the Industrial and Sanitary Plants with granula