[Page 58]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Facility processes an average crude oil throughput of 147,400 barrels per day, producing a broad
range of petroleum products. The Facility discharges to Carquinez Strait, Peyton Slough, and Peyton
Creek via seven outfalls: Discharge Point Nos. 001, 002, 004, 005, 007, 008, and 009. Attachment B
provides site maps.
A. Wastewater Treatment (Discharge Point No. 001)
The Facility discharges process wastewater, non-process wastewater, sanitary wastewater, and
stormwater at Discharge Point No. 001 after treatment at the wastewater treatment plant. Process
wastewater and non-process wastewater include desalter effluent, sour water, boiler blowdown,
cooling tower blowdown, and groundwater from extraction systems. Attachment C provides a
process flow diagram for the wastewater treatment plant.
The wastewater treatment plant consists of three oil-water separators (one American Petroleum
Institute [API] separator, one Gross Oil Separator [GOS], and one Corrugated Plate Interceptor
[CPI]), four tanks that can operate as either oil-water separators or dissolved nitrogen flotation
units, five equalization and diversion tanks, three activated sludge biological treatment systems
(biotreaters), four treatment ponds, four retention ponds to store wastewater requiring additional
treatment or wastewater from turnaround activities, a chemical precipitation unit for selenium
removal, and a granular activated carbon (GAC) adsorption system that provides final polishing
of treated wastewater by reducing effluent toxicity and removing some metals and hydrocarbons.
The treatment plant hydraulic capacity is approximately 10 MGD. All wastewater is processed
through the entire treatment system, except for low biochemical oxygen demand streams, such as
cooling tower blowdown, boiler system blowdown, and noncontact stormwater. Depending on
operation, these streams can be routed to either the selenium precipitation unit or the polishing
pond (Pond 5C-2), before then being treated by GAC adsorption units. The Discharger also
routes wastewater from the Shell Chemical Plant, along with a stream of cooling tower
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 59]
Shell Oil Products US & Equilon Enterprises LLC Order No. R2-2017-0039
Shell Martinez Refinery NPDES No. CA0005789
blowdown water from that area, downstream of the API oil-water separator to two tanks that can
operate as oil-water separators or dissolved nitrogen flotation units and then to the biotreater.
Treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point No. 001 to Carquinez Strait. The
discharge occurs through a 24-inch multiport diffuser located under the Martinez Refinery
Wharf, about 500 feet from shore. The diffuser is 54 feet long, lies at an average depth of 25 feet,
and has 18 horizontal 3-inch-diameter ports spaced 24 feet apart facing the seaward dir

===PLANNED CHANGES===

