[Page 1]
2. EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Sheridan WWTP is owned and operated by the County of Placer Department of Facility
Services (hereafter “Discharger”) and is located at E Street, Sheridan, in Placer County as
shown on Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of this NOA by reference. The
site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this NOA by
reference. The facility is located on approximately 60 acres in the unincorporated area of
western Placer County. The closest drinking water well is over 600 feet northeast of the WWTP.
The Sheridan WWTP treats municipal wastewater from the community of Sheridan. The plant
serves 221 dwelling units including four commercial structures, a school, a thirteen unit mobile
home park, and single family houses. Wastewater in the collection system generally drains to
the south, where flows are collected in the influent lift station. The lift station transfers
wastewater from the gravity system to a forcemain that terminates at the WWTP.
The WWTP consists of two, clay lined treatment ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) and two seasonal
storage reservoirs (SSR1 and SSR2). Pond 1 is an aeration pond for biological removal and
settling of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and Pond 2 is a polishing pond for further solids
settling. Raw wastewater is first pumped into the primary treatment pond, Pond 1, which is
divided by a baffle into Pond 1A and 1B. In Pond 1A, one 10-hp aerator and one 5-hp aerator
are used to promote oxidation of organic matter and reduction in BOD. Flow is directed from
Pond 1A to Pond 1B where a 5-hp aerator is used for additional aeration. From Pond 1B the
water is directed to Pond 2 for settling of solids. From Pond 2, treated water is directed through
the chlorine contact pipe, where chlorine is added to destroy pathogenic bacteria and to aid in
odor control. SSR1 is clay lined and SSR2 is lined with a 60 mil HDPE liner. Chlorinated
secondary effluent is then pumped to either SSR 1 or to SSR 2, which are equipped with
floating irrigation pump stations to deliver treated water to the sprayfields. During the winter
months, SSR 1 is also available to provide addition

[Page 3]
3. SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND EFFLUENT LIMITS
Note that the General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
treatment systems and those that apply only to specific treatment and/or disposal systems. The
specific requirements and effluent limits for your treatment system are summarized below.
The wastewater treatment operator must be familiar with the requirements contained in the
General Order, this NOA, and the MRP.
B. Requirements by Wastewater System Type, Section B of General Order
(pp.16 – 27 of the General Order)
B.1 All Wastewater Systems
This applies in its entirety to the Sheridan WWTP with the following site specific
requirements.
B.1.a Influent flow limits
Location Influent Flow Limit as Monthly Average
Influent Lift Station 60,000 gpd
B.1.l Wastewater system setbacks
Ephemeral
Domestic Flowing Property Lake or
Equipment or Activity Stream
Well Stream Line Reservoir
Drainage
Collection System 1 100 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
Treatment Ponds 2 150 ft 150 ft 150 ft 50 ft 200 ft
Spray Field 3 No spray irrigation of any recycled water, other than
disinfected tertiary recycled water, shall take place within
100 feet of a residence or a place where public exposure
could be similar to that of a park, playground, or school yard.
1 Setbacks from “Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System” in
Table 3 of General Order. Setbacks apply to the collection system, septic tanks, and dosing tanks.
2 Setbacks from “Impoundment (disinfected secondary recycled water)” in Table 3 of General Order
based on level of effluent treatment and disinfection.
3 Setbacks from “Spray Irrigation (disinfected recycled water)” in Table 3 of General Order based on
level of effluent treatment and disinfection.
[Page 4]
County of Placer Department of Facility Services - 5 - 19 December 2016
Sheridan WWTF
B.5 Pond Systems
The WWTF utilizes a pond system; therefore this section applies in its entirety.
B.7 Land Application and/or Recycled Water Systems
The WWTF utilizes a land application system; therefore this section applies in its entirety.
Disinfected secondary wastewater is applied to the fields via spray irrigation. As
described in the RWD, storm water and effluent are prevented from running off-site due to
the tailwater management systems, which directs excess water from the spray fields back
to Pond 1A/1B. All ponds have a minimum of 10 feet of separation from groundwater
based on the shallowest depths to groundwater measured between 2004 and 2015.
D. Effluent Limitations (pp.27 – 28 of the General Order)
This section applies in its entirety and shall include the following site specific limitations.
Treatment Pond Effluent Limitations
The following limits apply to the effluent to be discharged to the spray fields.
Constituent Units Limit
BOD mg/L 90
Total Nitrogen Crop demand
TSS mg/L 45 1
1 Monthly average
Effluent Limit Rationale
The pond treatment system is subject to technology performance effluent limits for BOD as
specified in the General Order.
Staff evaluated the need for a nitrogen effluent limit using the method contained in the
General Order and conditions of the discharge. The pond treatment system and application
to the spray field is expected to assimilate nitrogen before it could potentially impact shallow
groundwater. Nitrogen in the wastewater shall be applied at an agronomic rate in the
amount needed by the crop being grown. Therefore, a numerical nitrogen wastewater
effluent limit is not necessary at this time.
E. Technical Report Preparation Requirements (pp.28 – 29

===PLANNED CHANGES===

