[Page 1]
Facility
The Silver Oak Cellars - Alexander Valley winery is owned and operated by Silver Oak
Cellars and is located in Geyserville, Sonoma County. The winery is not located in an area
served by a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic and process
wastewater is collected and treated on-site. The site location is shown on Attachment A,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The Silver Oak Cellars - Alexander Valley winery facility (Facility) is located on a 115-acre
parcel (APN No. 131-200-020) and consists of: a production and administration building; a
storage building; a wine tasting building; a marketing accommodations (MA) three
bedroom residence; associated utilities and infrastructure; and vineyards. The winery is
currently permitted with a maximum annual wine production capacity of 120,000 cases, as
authorized by Sonoma County Use Permit PLP14-0004.
Two separate wastewater treatment systems will serve the Facility. Domestic wastewater
originating from facility restrooms, laboratories, the tasting room, and the MA residence
will be treated and disposed of via the domestic wastewater treatment system. The
domestic wastewater system will consist of a gravity collection system, two septic tanks,
one kitchen grease interceptor, an Orenco Advantex AX-MAX125 aerobic biological filter
unit (with recirculation and dosing tanks built-in), an ultra-violet (UV) light disinfection
system, and a subsurface drip disposal field. Following pretreatment and disinfection, the
treated domestic wastewater will be disposed of through a subsurface drip disposal field.
The Facilities winery process wastewater will be treated via a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR)
package wastewater treatment system for reuse as vineyard irrigation water or non-
potable process reuse water. The process wastewater discharge will need to be authorized
under General Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) for wine, beverage and food
processor waste, under Conditional Waiver of WDR for wine, beverage and food processor
waste discharges, or under an individual order. This noti

[Page 2]
The overall plan layout of the wastewater collection system is included in the
design plans and the report,
for Silver Oak Cellars, prepared by Summit Engineering Inc., and dated July 15, 2014, and
MPraimy 8ar, y2 0T1re5a, trmesepnetc atinvde lCyo. lTlehcetsioen p Slaynstse amn d report are made part of this NOA by reference.
Primary domestic waste treatment and collection will be provided using a standard gravity
collection system, kitchen grease interceptor and septic tanks, as described below.
A 1,500-gallon precast concrete septic tank with effluent filter will serve the MA residence.
The septic tank is designed to provide a 3-day detention time for solids removal prior to
effluent entering the larger winery septic tank. A 13,000-gallon fiberglass septic tank with
effluent filter will serve the entire Facility. The 13,000-gallon septic tank is designed to
provide a 3-day detention time for solids removal and to act as a sump prior to transferring
effluent to the Advantex pretreatment system. The 13,000 gallon septic tank will be
equipped with duplex pumps and float switches that will be controlled and monitored by
an adjacent pump control panel with visual and audible alarm.
The tasting room and hospitality building will be served by a 1,500-gallon kitchen grease
interceptor, designed for a maximum flow of 500 gpd and a 3-day retention time. The
precast concrete grease interceptor is intended to remove oil and grease from the kitchen
wSeacsotnedwaartye Wr parsitoerw taot eern tTerreiantgm thenet s Seypsttiecm ta nk.
A wastewater treatment system, consisting of an Advantex recirculating aerobic biological
filter system, will be installed to provide secondary level treatment for the domestic
wastewater flow. The treatment system consists of one filter unit, a recirculation tank,
dosing tank, piping, pumps, and controls. The filter unit, also referred to as a treatment pod,
is a manufacturer- supplied modular unit consisting of a fiberglass tank containing textile
filtration media, a pressurized influent distribution pipe network, and an underdrain to
collect treated wastewater. The secondary level treatment is designed to reduce the
organic strength and solids content of the do

===PLANNED CHANGES===

