[Page 97]
1. SOCWA J.B. Latham Wastewater Plant
The SOCWA J.B. Latham WP, located at 34156 Del Obispo Street in the City of Dana Point,
adjacent to San Juan Creek, is a conventional activated sludge treatment facility that
services a population of 120,000 in four SOCWA member agencies: MNWD, SMWD, SCWD
and the City of San Juan Capistrano. Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes
are screening, grit removal, primary clarification, and secondary treatment using an
activated sludge process consisting of aeration and clarification. The liquid handling portion
of the plant is normally operated as two separate plants, referred to as the 9 MGD side and
the 4 MGD side. The plant has chlorination facilities which are not being used at this time.
Waste sludge is anaerobically digested and then dewatered using centrifuges. Dewatered
biosolids are hauled to a sanitary landfill for disposal or composted by a contractor for reuse.
It should be noted that the SOCWA J.B. Latham WP also receives municipal wastewater
flows for treatment from the SMWD Oso Creek WRP when this treatment facility is off-line.
All effluent from the SOCWA J.B. Latham WP is discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the
SJCOO. The plant’s design treatment capacity is 13.0 MGD.
The SOCWA J.B. Latham WP also receives dry-weather nuisance flows from a variety of
projects designed to keep dry-weather low-volume stormwater flows in specific storm drains
from crossing the beaches to the ocean by diverting the untreated flows to the headworks of
the SOCWA J.B. Latham WP. The table below summarizes the sources of these untreated
dry weather nuisance flows to the SOCWA J.B. Latham WP.
Table F-2. Dry-Weather Nuisance Flows Diverted to the SOCWA J.B. Latham WP
SOCWA Member Agency Diversion Facility Flow Limit1 (gpd)
City of San Juan Capistrano Alipaz Diversion Facility 72,000
Capistrano Beach Locations
(including, Beach St., Beach Road, 80,000
and Camino De Estrella)
South Coast Water District North Creek Diversion Facility 72,000
Del Obispo Diversion Facilities 72,000
Salt Creek 10,000
Headlands 10,000
Total 244,000
1
These are flow limitations placed on these discharges by SOCWA.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 98]
Attachment 1
SOUTH ORANGE COUNTY WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2012-0012
AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2014-0105
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107417
2. SMWD Chiquita Wastewater Reclamation Plant
The SMWD Chiquita WRP, located at 28793 Ortega Highway in the City of San Juan
Capistrano, is a high-rate trickling filter treatment facility that services a population of 60,000
in the SMWD. Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes are screening, grit
removal, primary clarification and secondary treatment using a combination of high-rate
trickling filtration, recirculation, solids contact, activated sludge, secondary clarification, and
filtration. The plant has chlorination facilities which are not being used at this time. Primary
and secondary sludges are mixed, thickened, digested, dewatered, and transported either to
a privately owned and operated composting facility in Riverside County or to a sanitary
landfill for disposal. SMWD constructed advanced wastewater treatment facilities at the
SMWD Chiquita WRP to provide recycled water for irrigation. Effluent not sent to the
advanced treatment facilities for production of recycled water is discharged to the SJCOO
via the SMWD Chiquita Land Outfall. The plant’s design treatment capacity is 9.0 MGD.
3. SOCWA 3A Reclamation Plant
The SOCWA 3A RP, formerly MNWD 3A RP, located at 26801 Camino Capistrano, Mission
Viejo, adjacent to Oso Creek, is a conventional activated sludge treatment facility that
services a population of 41,000 in the SMWD and the MNWD. Wastewater treatment unit
operations and processes are screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation,
aeration and secondary treatment using an activated sludge process consisting of aeration
and clarification. Waste activated sludge is thickened by air flotation, pumped to an
anaerobic digester for stabilization and subsequently dewatered using centrifuges.
Dewatered sludge is either hauled to a sanitary landfill or to a privately owned and operated
composting facility. This plant has chlorinating facilities, but only effluent intended to be
used for irrigation is chlorinated. Secondary effluent is either directed to an on-site
advanced water reclamation facility for further treatment or is discharged through the
SJCOO via the San Juan Basin Authority Bypass, jointly owned by MNWD and SMWD,
which connects to the SMWD Chiquita Land Outfall. The design capacity for treatment is 6.0
MGD.
4. SWMD Oso Creek Water Reclamation Plant
The SMWD Oso Creek WRP, located at 27402 East La Paz Road, Mission Viejo, adjacent
to Oso Creek, treats wastewater flows from the SMWD. The Oso Creek WRP is an
activated biofilter process treatment facility. Wastewater treatment unit operations and
processes at the Oso Creek WRP are microscreening and secondary treatment using a
combination of biofilters and clarification. This plant has chlorination facilities, but only
effluent intended to be used for irrigation is chlorinated. Waste solids and filter backwash is
returned to the Oso Trabuco Interceptor Sewer. Secondary effluent is directed to an onsite
advanced water reclamation facility for further treatment and pumped to the Upper Oso
Reservoir. There is no connection from the Oso Creek WRP to the SJCOO. In situations
when the plant is off-line, the raw wastewater flows to the SOCWA J.B. Latham WP, where it
is treated and then discharged through the SJCOO. The design capacity for treatment is 3.0
MGD.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 99]
Attachment 1
SOUTH ORANGE COUNTY WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2012-0012
AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2014-0105
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107417
5. City of San Clemente Water Reclamation Plant
The City of San Clemente WRP, located at 380 Avenida Pico, San Clemente, is a
conventional activated sludge treatment facility that services a population of 68,000 in the
City of San Clemente and a small portion of the SMWD. Wastewater treatment and unit
operations and processes are screening, grit removal, primary clarification, and secondary
treatment using an activated sludge process consisting of aeration and clarification. The
plant has chlorination facilities, but only effluent intended to be used for irrigation is
chlorinated. Settled primary sludges and skimmings are pumped to a two-stage anaerobic
digestion process. Waste sludge is thickened, digested, dewatered, and transported to a
sanitary landfill for disposal. Secondary effluent is either directed to an on-site advanced
water reclamation facility for further treatment or discharged through the SJCOO via the San
Clemente Land Outfall. The design capacity for treatment is 6.98 MGD.
6. San Juan Capistrano Groundwater Treatment Plant
The San Juan Capistrano GTP treats extracted groundwater to produce a potable water
supply. Pretreatment at the San Juan Capistrano GTP for the removal of iron, manganese,
and hardness includes sand separators; the addition of potassium permanganate and
sodium hypochlorite; filters; the addition of scale inhibitor, sodium bisulfite, and sulfuric acid;
and cartridge filters. Pretreatment is followed by reverse osmosis (RO), aeration within the
clearwell, pH adjustment (sodium hydroxide and ammonium hydroxide), and disinfection
(sodium hypochlorite). Filter washwater is recycled. Potable water from the plant is
distributed for use in the City's potable water system. The resulting RO brine discharge of
up to 2.2 MGD is discharged through the SJCOO.
7. South Coast Water District Groundwater Recovery Facility
The South Coast Water District Groundwater Recovery Facility (GRF) treats extracted
groundwater to produce approximately 800 gallons per

===PLANNED CHANGES===

