[Page 58]
2. Collection System. The collection system consists of 135 miles of gravity flow lines and 2
pump stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The Plant provides tertiary treatment (secondary treatment with
additional filtration) of all wastewater, except during wet weather when influent flows exceed
the hydraulic capacity of the tertiary filters (16 MGD or a maximum hydraulic loading rate of
6 gpm/ft2). Influent is treated by the following processes in succession: debris removal using bar
screens, grit removal using a vortex tank, primary treatment and flow equalization using aerated
equalization basins, secondary treatment using aeration basins, solids removal using secondary
clarifiers, tertiary treatment using cloth media filtration, chlorination using chlorine contact
chambers, and dechlorination using sulfur dioxide. The flow process diagram is shown in
Attachment C.
4. Biosolids Management. Biosolids from the secondary clarifiers are processed using polymer
addition, a gravity thickener, and a screw press. Supernatant from the dewatering process is
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 59]
Sonoma Valley County Sanitation District ORDER No. R2-2014-0020
NPDES No. CA0037800
returned to the headworks for treatment. Dewatered biosolids are disposed at the Redwood
Landfill in Marin County or the Altamont Landfill in Alameda County.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
62B62B
1. Discharge Point No. 001. During the wet season, when there is little demand for recycled
water, typically from November through April, wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point
No. 001 into Schell Slough, a tidally-influenced waterbody downstream of Schell Creek. Schell
Slough is a dead end slough and is flushed with limited

[Page 61]
6/30/2009 Cyanide Monthly Average µg/L 6.7 8.8
All but one of the above-listed violations were for copper or cyanide. The Discharger
investigated the cause of the cyanide violations and found that they were likely caused by
analytical interference from sulfur dioxide in the dechlorination process. In response, the
Discharger began sampling for cyanide before dechlorination, and there were no more cyanide
violations.
The Regional Water Board issued Cease and Desist Order No. R2-2008-0091 requiring the
Discharger to address its copper violations. In response, the Discharger began a series of pilot
studies starting in June 2010 using a sequestering agent (MetalSolve) and a polymer (Zetafloc) to
remove copper from the effluent. The pilot studies appeared to be successful in removing copper
so the Discharger began injecting the chemicals into the waste stream after secondary treatment
on a full-scale basis in December 2011. There have been no copper violations since that time.
The November 2011 residual chlorine violation was caused by programming updates to the
chemical dosing control mechanism. The Dischargers put protocols in place to prevent a
reoccurrence.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 62]
Sonoma Valley County Sanitation District ORDER No. R2-2014-0020
NPDES No. CA0037800
The Regional Water Board issued mandatory minimum penalties of $3,000 per violation for the
chlorine residual violation and all the cyanide violations listed in the table above.
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
65B65B
Over the next five years, the Discharger plans to install recycled water pipelines to irrigate athletic
fields, landscapes, and agricultural properties, and also plans to replace sewer trunk lines and sewer
stream crossings. At the Plant, the Discharger plans to reline the equalization basins, replace the
effluent pump station to pump larger quantities of recycled water, and coat the interior of the
chlorine contact basin to inhibit equipment degradation.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
23B23B
The requirements in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described below.
A. Legal Authorities
66B66B
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with § 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to Clean Water Act (CWA)
s