[Page 53]
Receiving Water Type Marine
A. The cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and the North Bayside System Unit (NBSU)
(collectively, the Discharger) discharge wastewater collected by the cities of South San Francisco
and San Bruno and treated at the Water Quality Control Plant (Plant) and treated wastewater from
the cities of Burlingame and Millbrae and the San Francisco International Airport (SFO). The
NBSU is a joint powers authority comprised of the cities of Burlingame, Millbrae, South San
Francisco, and San Bruno, and SFO. The NBSU owns and operates the forcemain that collects
treated chlorinated wastewater from the cities of Burlingame and Millbrae (outside the city limits)
and SFO (outside the airport property) for dechlorination at the Plant. The NBSU also owns and
operates the combined effluent pumping station, the effluent dechlorination facilities, and the
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-2
[Page 54]
Cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and North Bayside Systems Unit (NBSU) ORDER No. R2-2014-0012
Water Quality Control Plant and Collection System NPDES No. CA0038130
deepwater outfall with diffuser. The combined treated, dechlorinated wastewater is discharged to
Lower San Francisco Bay through a single pipe to the deepwater outfall.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable federal
and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references to the Discharger
herein.
B. The Discharger is regulated pursuant to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Permit No. CA0038130. It was previously subject to Order No. R2-2008-0094 (previous order),
which was adopted on November 12, 2008, and expired on December 31, 2013. The Facility
discharges wastewater to Lower San Francisco Bay, a water of the United States within the San
Francisco Bay watershed. Attachment B provides maps of the area around the Facility. Attachment
C provides a plant flow schematic.
The Discharger must file a petition with the State Water Board’s Division of Water Rights and
receive approval for any change in the point of discharge, place of use, or purpose of use of treated
wastewater that decreases the flow in any portion of a watercourse. The State Water Board retains
the jurisdictional authority to enforce such requirements under Water Code section 1211.
C. The Discharger filed a Report of Waste Discharge and submitted an application for reissuance of its
WDRs and NPDES permit on July 1, 2013.
D. The discharge is also regulated under NPDES Permit No. CA0038849, which establishes
requirements on mercury and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) from wastewater discharges to San
Francisco Bay. This Order does not affect the mercury and PCBs permit.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Control
1. Location and Service Area. The Plant is located at 195 Belle Air Road, South San Francisco. It
serves a population of about 110,500, providing primary and secondary wastewater treatment
for the cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno, the Town of Colma, and portions of the
City of Daly City.
2. Collection Systems. The South San Francisco collection system and San Bruno collection
system are covered by this Order and convey wastewater to the Plant. The South San Francisco
collection system consists of approximately 148 miles of gravity sewers and force mains and
seven pump stations. The San Bruno collection system consists of approximately 77 miles of
gravity sewers and force mains, 20 miles of lower laterals, and six pump stations.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The Plant receives untreated wastewater from three force main pump
stations. The influent flows through bar screens and two grit removal systems. During normal
dry weather operations, it is treated with ferric chloride and polymer for flocculation and
pumped to a flow splitter for distribution to primary clarifiers, where grease, floating solids, and
settable solids are removed.
The primary-treated wastewater typically flows by gravity to five aeration basins as two
separate flow streams. Another four aeration basins remain in stand-by mode. They are
scheduled for retrofitting and mainly used for wet weather flows. The wastewater is combined
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 55]
Cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and North Bayside Systems Unit (NBSU) ORDER No. R2-2014-0012
Water Quality Control Plant and Collection System NPDES No. CA0038130
in the aeration basins with return activated sludge from secondary clarifiers. It then flows by
gravity through the aeration basins to secondary clarifiers for sedimentation and floating solids
removal. During wet weather, when influent flow greatly exceeds the peak secondary treatment
capacity (30 MGD design capacity), primary effluent may be routed around the aeration basins
and secondary clarifiers and blended with secondary-treated effluent. This Order authorizes
such bypasses under specific conditions.
The secondary-treated wastewater flows by gravity to two chlorine contact basins where it is
mixed with sodium hypochlorite for disinfection. After disinfection, it flows by gravity to the
NBSU effluent pumping station wet well (Discharge Point No. 001), where it is blended with
chlorinated effluent from the cities of Burlingame and Millbrae and SFO. It is then mixed with
sodium bisulfite to neutralize the residual chlorine. The combined effluent is then pumped
through the NBSU outfall (Discharge Point No. 002) and discharged to Lower San Francisco
Bay about one mile offshore from Oyster Point.
The flow schematic in Attachment C shows these steps. The Plant has an average dry weather
design capacity of 13 million gallons per day (MGD). During the previous order term, its
average dry weather flow was 9.2 MGD. During wet weather, when influent flows exceed the
Plant’s secondary treatment capacity of 30 MGD, excess primary effluent is stored, disinfected
separately, and then combined with secondary treated effluent prior to dechlorination and
disposal. When the Plant’s effluent flowrate exceeds 35 mgd (engineered contractual limit for
the NBSU pipeline), fully treated effluent is pumped to a 7 million-gallon effluent storage pond.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity and
mechanical thickeners or waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and
belt filter presses for dewatering. The digested and dewatered biosolids are hauled offsite to a
permitted landfill.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
1. NBSU Outfall. Effluent is discharged to Lower San Francisco Bay (a tidally influenced, marine
waterbody) through the NBSU force main to a deep water outfall 5,300 feet offshore. The
outfall is equipped with a submerged multi-port diffuser located northeast of Point San Bruno, at
a depth of 20 feet below mean lower low water. The diffuser is 654 feet long and consists of 94
ports placed 7 feet apart, on center, along the terminal end of the outfall. The diffuser port
openings are 3 inches in diameter. The NBSU operates and maintains the outfall. An inspection
of the outfall line occurred in July 2010 and repairs were completed in 2010. Divers cleaned all
diffuser ports and confirmed that the diffuser was operating according to design specifications.
Regular inspe

[Page 57]
2. Rehabilitate and repair the bar screen bypass, motorized operators at flow split, and the blower
building;
3. Construct a new secondary clarifier and increase secondary capacity from 30 MGD to 40 MGD;
and
4. Repurpose the existing facilities to provide an additional onsite effluent storage capacity of
700,000 gallons.
None of these changes will alter the treatment processes.
E. Blending Summary
Blending as defined in the previous order occurred five times over the previous order term,
totaling approximately 8.8 million gallons. At an average daily flow of 9.3 MGD, this constitutes
approximately 0.044 percent of the total influent flow the Plant received during the last five
years. No effluent limitation violations were reported for discharges during these blending

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Between 2014 and 2018, the Discharger plans to complete the following projects at the Plant:
1. Improve electrical to include replacing generator and switchgear, replacing elevated bus duct,
and installing a new generator building;
2. Rehabilitate and repair the bar screen bypass, motorized operators at flow split, and the blower
building;
3. Construct a new secondary clarifier and increase secondary capacity from 30 MGD to 40 MGD;
and
4. Repurpose the existing facilities to provide an additional onsite effluent storage capacity of
700,000 gallons.
None of these changes will alter the treatment processes.
E. Blending Summary
Blending as defined in the previous order occurred five times over the previous order term,
totaling approximately 8.8 million gallons. At an average daily flow of 9.3 MGD, this constitutes
approximately 0.044 percent of the total influent flow the Plant received during the last five
years. No effluent limitation violations were reported for discharges during these blending