[Page 51]
2. Collection System. The Discharger’s wastewater collection system is part of the Facility
covered by this Order. It consists of approximately eight miles of force main and four pump
stations, which receive wastewater from four satellite wastewater collection systems (West
Bay Sanitary District, City of Belmont, City of San Carlos, and City of Redwood City).
Wastewater travels by gravity to the four pump stations and then by force main to the
treatment plant. During wet weather, the plant’s booster station and influent lift station may
be used to handle elevated force main flows. An earth and rip-rap equalization basin owned
by the West Bay Sanitary District may be used to reduce force main flows.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of preliminary
mechanical bar screens, primary sedimentation, secondary biological treatment through fixed
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 52]
Silicon Valley Clean Water Order No. R2-2018-0005
Silicon Valley Clean Water Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0038369
film reactors or aeration basins (or both), secondary clarification, mono- or dual-media
filtration, chlorine disinfection using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium
bisulfite. These steps are shown in the process flow diagram in Attachment C. The treatment
plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up to 29 million gallons per day (MGD) and
a peak wet weather capacity of 71 MGD. From October 2012 through August 2017, the plant
treated a daily average of 13.5 MGD and a maximum instantaneous flow of 50 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Primary sludge is treated by gravity thickener units or
rotating drum thickeners. Waste activated sludge is treated by gravity belt thickeners. All
thickened sludge is then treated by anaerobic digestion and dewatered by a high speed
centrifuge decanter or air-dried using sludge drying beds.
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the State
Water Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial
activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the plant and
pump stations is collected and directed to the plant headworks for treatment.
6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger’s recycled water production flow capacity is
approximately 13 MGD. Since 2012, the Discharger has produced a yearly average of
approximately 20 million gallons per month of tertiary-treated, unrestricted use recycled
water. Production typically peaks during the dry season (from May through September), with
a maximum production of approximately 45 million gallons observed in July 2016, and
declines during the wet season (from October through April). An additional chemical
coagulation treatment step may be included just prior to filtration to produce this recycled
water. Most recycled water is used to irrigate landscaping in Redwood City, and a portion is
used onsite for toilet flush water, fire suppression water, and some chemical feed systems,
such as sodium bisulfite dosing for dechlorination. Recycled water activities are regulated
under Regional Water Board Order No. 96-011.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Discharge of treated effluent to Lower San Francisco Bay is through a submerged, multi-port
diffuser (Discharge Point No. 001). The outfall location is approximately 6,700 feet offshore in the
main shipping channel, approximately 2.3 miles southeast of the center span o

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to replace approximately 3.3 miles of 54-inch reinforced concrete pipe just
upstream of the headworks with a 13 to 15-foot outside diameter tunnel. This will allow
elimination of one of the four pump stations. Of the remaining three pump stations, two will be
refurbished and one will be replaced. The new tunnel conveyance system will provide daily flow
equalization and will include a deep receiving lift station to lift raw wastewater to a new
headworks structure that will include screening and grit removal. The mechanical bar screens at
the existing headworks structure will be modified to provide finer screening.
Other planned improvements include the rehabilitation of the primary clarifiers and anaerobic
digesters, the installation of a new motorized distributor arm at a fixed film reactor, and the
replacement of all aeration basin mechanical mixer units with new energy efficient mixers. The
gravity thickener units used to treat primary sludge have exceeded their useful life and will be
replaced with rotating drum thickeners. The Discharger has contracted with BioForce Tech to
employ a new biosolids drying technology that uses pyrolysis to produce biochar. This project is
in its start-up phase and could potentially treat 50 percent of the produced biosolids.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not requirements of
this Order, except as to the extent that they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion
here does not imply Regional Water Board author