[Page 6]
5. Wastewater treatment technologies evolve over time. Septic tanks and gravity fed
leach fields provide the lowest level of acceptable treatment. Other treatment may
include aerobic treatment systems, sand/media filters, package treatment plants,
constructed wetlands, activated sludge, membrane biological reactors, and disinfection
systems. Similarly, other dispersal options for the treated effluent may include
pressure dosing, drip irrigation, land application, mound/at grade systems, or
September 23, 2014
[Page 7]
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - 2 -
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
evapotranspiration systems. The level of treatment shall be based upon the
wastewater quality and the receiving water quality at the wastewater disposal location.
For flow rates that exceed 20,000 gallons per day (gpd), Attachment 1, Nitrogen
Effluent Limit Evaluation, provides direction in evaluating a discharge and determining
when nitrogen control is required. Seepage pits may be considered part of the
disposal system if inadequate land exists for a leach field dispersal system, other site
conditions require the use of seepage pits, and site conditions are favorable for the
use of seepage pits (groundwater quality shall be maintained consistent with this
General Order). The discussion of treatment and disposal alternatives is not intended
to limit the selection of alternatives available to the wastewater system designer.
6. All WDRs must implement the a

[Page 8]
9. Discharges from RV holding tanks or portable toilets may contain chemicals that can
pollute groundwater quality. Some commercially available products used to control
holding tank/portable toilet odors may contain harmful chemicals such as
formaldehyde, zinc, or phenol. The harmful chemicals can kill the bacteria in the
wastewater treatment system and cause wastewater to be inadequately treated.
Inadequately treated wastewater may cause additional problems such as leachfield/
seepage pit failure, surfacing wastewater, and potential exposure and health risks.
Discharge of the harmful chemicals to groundwater that creates pollution may result in
enforcement activities requiring groundwater remediation. The best and least
expensive method to prevent groundwater pollution is to not use harmful chemicals by
educating RV owners about the pollution hazard.
10. Total dissolved solids (TDS) consists of both volatile (organic) and fixed (inorganic)
fractions. A varying concentration of volatile dissolved solids will exist in wastewater
effluent depending upon the wastewater source and treatment technology. In a
properly operated land application system, volatile dissolved solids in percolate are
generally reduced to negligible concentrations (less than 2 mg/L) by filtration and
biological degrad

===PLANNED CHANGES===

