[Page 1]
The Villas at Butte Creek - 2 - 17 April 2018
 Monthly visual inspection of disposal fields for surfacing wastewater, erosion, saturation,
or the presence of nuisance conditions. If liquid is present in the disposal field area,
sample for pH, Total Coliforms, Fecal Coliforms, and Total Dissolved Solids.
Effluent samples should be collected after treatment, before dispersal to the leach field system.
DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Villas is located at Player Lane, off Estates Drive, in Butte County. The facility is in Section
8, T21N, R2E, MDB&M in Butte County. The subdivision includes 13 homes on 14 lots. Each is
equipped with a septic tank, connection to a collection system and common leach field. The
leach field has two fields, one active and one is reserve, each with 1,800 lineal feet of disposal
trench and 5,400 square feet of disposal area. The leach field area has piezometers for each
leach line and five groundwater monitoring wells, each approximately 10 feet deep.
The design of the wastewater disposal system has a maximum flow of 4,900 gallons per day
(gpd). The system has no flow meter specific to the leach field system. Flow reporting to the
wastewater disposal system will be required as part of the monitoring and reporting program
issued in conjunction with this enrollment under the General Order. All homes in the subdivision
are supplied by a small, private water purveyor which operates three supply wells and serves
several subdivisions, a country club and includes a few irrigation wells.
This is an ex

[Page 4]
CREEK, BUTTE COUNTY GENERAL ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ ENROLLMENT
Staff has reviewed the case file and conducted a pre-permitting inspection on 9 February 2018 for
The Villas at Butte Creek subdivision. The Report assesses the general condition of the wastewater
treatment system and the subsurface disposal fields.
The subdivision is located south of the city of Chico, immediately west of Highway 99 on Player
Lane. Currently the subdivision includes 13 homes on 14 lots. Each home has a STEP (Septic Tank
Effluent Pump) system to pretreat wastewater prior to pumping to the main collection system. The
main line is a 2-inch pressure pipe that delivers effluent to a common dosing tank and a zoned
leach field area. The dosing tank contains a duplex pumping system that sends equal doses to a
zoned leach field. A manual distribution valve can be switched to send effluent to the primary or
reserve field. Currently effluent is dosed to all zones on a rotating basis.
Alternating pumps in the 2,000 gallon dosing tank convey treated effluent to a primary and
secondary leach field area, both designed with 1,800 linear foot of pressure dosed dispersal trench.
Each of the two leach field areas is divided into three zones; each zone has a 36-inch deep
piezometer. Five groundwater monitoring wells surround the leach field area; all wells are
approximately 10 feet deep with a one foot screened interval at the bottom.
The treatment system is designed for 4,900 gallons per day (gpd), but has no means of monitoring
flows to the leach field system. Both the primary and the backup leach field areas are in use and to
date, monitoring and reporting has not shown evidence of infiltration problems. The Central Valley
Water Board will request installation of a flow meter to monitor the leach field disposal system.
A Location Map and Facility Map are attached to this letter for reference.
[Page 5]
The Villas At Butte Creek - 2 - 17 April 2018
Potential Threats to Water Quality
The Villas at Butte Creek subdivision is supplied by private water purveyor which relies on three
local supply wells, approximately 400 feet deep with screened intervals from 300 to 330 feet below
ground surface (ft b

===PLANNED CHANGES===

