[Page 60]
Facility Design Flow
providing secondary treatment
Facility Permitted Flow 4.4 MGD under wet weather conditions providing secondary treatment
Watershed San Francisco Bay
Receiving Water and Type San Francisco Bay Central Basin, Marine
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3
[Page 61]
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF NAVY, ORDER NO. R2-2010-0001
TREASURE ISLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0110116
A. The U.S. Navy (hereinafter the Discharger) owns the Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant
(Plant), which discharges to San Francisco Bay (Central Basin) through a submerged deep-water
diffuser. The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC) operates the Plant and its
associated collection system (Facility) under a 1997 Cooperative Agreement between the
Discharger and the City. Pursuant to the Cooperative Agreement, the SFPUC agreed to operate and
maintain the utility systems at Treasure Island, including the Plant, while the Discharger retains
ownership of all the utility systems.
For the purposes of this Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in applicable federal
and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be equivalent to references to the Discharger
herein.
B. The Discharger is currently regulated by Order No. R2-2004-0036 (National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No. CA0110116), which was adopted on May 19, 2004. The
Discharger’s discharge is also currently covered under Order No. R2-2007-0077 (NPDES Permit
CA0038849) that superseded all requirements on mercury from wastewater discharges in the region.
The mercury permit is unaffected by this Order.
The terms and conditions of Order No. R2-2004-0036 have been automatically continued past that
Order’s expiration date of June 30, 2009, and remain in effect until new Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDRs) and a new NPDES permit are adopted and become effective.
C. The Discharger filed a Report of Waste Discharge and submitted an application for renewal of its
WDRs and NPDES permit on December 29, 2008.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment
The Discharger owns the Facility, which is operated by the SFPUC under a 1997 Cooperative
Agreement between the Discharger and the City. Pursuant to this agreement, the SFPUC operates
and maintains the utility systems at Treasure Island, including the Plant, while the Discharger
retains ownership of all the utility systems.
The Plant provides secondary treatment of domestic and non-domestic wastewater from facilities on
Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island, located in San Francisco Bay. The Facility currently serves
a population of approximately 2,400. It was initially constructed in 1961 to provide primary
treatment and has been subsequently upgraded to provide secondary treatment and disinfection. It is
designed to provide secondary treatment for on average of 2.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and ,
as indicated in the study “Improving Process Reliability and Performance Through Flow
Equalization”, D. Richard & E.M. Bolstad, Nolte & Associates, April 1991”, under wet weather
conditions, can provide treatment for up to 4.4 MGD. There are a few commercial facilities,
including a restaurant and culinary academy, but no manufacturing industries in the service area.
Daily influent flows to the Plant measured between December 2005 and June 2009 ranged between
0.35 and 0.50 MGD. Higher flows, up to 1.5 MGD, occurred during wet weather and were caused
by inflow and infiltration to the collection system. Anticipated redevelopment of the islands would
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 62]
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF NAVY, ORDER NO. R2-2010-0001
TREASURE ISLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0110116
increase the population served with the daily dry weather flow increasing to 1.3 MGD and the peak
wet weather flow increasing to 3.0 MGD.
The collection system (shown in attachment B) is a separate sanitary sewer system with
approximately 10 miles of sewers ranging in diameter from 4 to 12 inches. Pipeline materials
include cast iron, plastic, vitrified clay and asbestos cement. In addition to gravity sewers, the
system also includes 29 sanitary sewer pump stations, 2 of which are on Yerba Buena Island.
Wastewater from Yerba Buena Island is pumped through a 6-inch submarine force main as shown
on the map in Attachment C. Stormwater on the Plant site is collected and processed through the
treatment system. Stormwater from other parts of Treasure Island is discharged directly to the Bay
and is not covered by this permit.
The Plant operations and processes include preliminary treatment to remove solids; primary
treatment with primary sedimentation tanks; biological secondary treatment, including trickling
filters and secondary sedimentation followed by disinfection with sodium hypochlorite; and
dechlorination with sodium bisulfate. The effluent is then discharged into Central San Francisco
Bay through a deep water diffuser (Discharge Point E-001), approximately 400 feet offshore at a
depth of 30 feet below mean lower low water (37° 49’ 50’ N latitude and 122° 21’ 25” W
longitude).
The sludge from the sedimentation tanks is anaerobically digested and mechanically dewatered and
the resulting biosolids shipped off-site for landfill or permitted land application.
Stormwater from land covered by the Plant is, after being processed through the treatment plant,
discharged to the San Francisco Bay through E-001 and is covered under the Statewide Industrial
Storm Water Permit (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001).
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The receiving water and the location of the discharge point are shown in Tabl

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the effective period of this Order the Discharger will implement capital improvement
projects to create a new sludge stabilization and dewatering facility. This will eliminate aging
and unreliable infrastructure and produce a higher classification of biosolids. During 2010 the
Discharger will abandon the existing sludge stabilization and dewatering processes and install a
new sludge process utilzing lime for stabilization. These changes will improve the quality of
dewatered sludge, resulting in a final production of Class (A) Biosolids under U.S. EPA
classification regulations. The Discharger also plans to replace existing process piping and
equipment which is prone to failure and has required extensive maintenance
.
Attachment F – Fact She