[Page 53]
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide biological treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 0.98 million gallons per day (MGD). In the 2017 dry season (May 1
to October 31), the plant treated an average daily dry weather flow of 0.55 MGD. The
treatment process consists of raw influent grinding, primary clarification, activated sludge
aeration, secondary clarification, sodium hypochlorite disinfection, and sodium bisulfite
dechlorination. The plant also has onsite storage consisting of an additional primary clarifier,
an offline aeration basin, and a surge tank, totaling 315,000 gallons.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 54]
Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County Order No. R2-2018-0038
NPDES No. CA0037753
The plant can also provide biological treatment for up to 2.3 MGD during wet weather when
influent flows to the plant are more diluted. During wet weather, when primary-treated flows
exceed the plant’s biological treatment capacity of 2.3 MGD and all onsite storage is used,
the plant routes the portion of flows above 2.3 MGD from its primary clarifiers directly to its
sodium hypochlorite disinfection tank (bypassing activated sludge aeration and secondary
clarification) where it is blended with biologically treated effluent prior to discharge. Any
primary treated flows stored onsite are routed back to the headworks for full treatment. Such
bypasses, or blending, are necessary at times to prevent washout of microbial populations in
the biological treatment units. Bypasses of biological treatment are subject to Discharge
Prohibition III.CB, Attachment D section I.G (see Fact Sheet section IV.A.2), and Provision
VI.C.5.a.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger treats sludge with mesophilic anaerobic
digesters (producing Class B biosolids), thickens the treated biosolids with a rotary drum, and
dewaters the thickened sludge using a screw press. The Discharger hauls the dewatered, treated
biosolids to a landfill to be used as daily cover or compost.
5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under the statewide
NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities (NPDES General
Permit No. CAS000001) because all stormwater flows in contact with equipment or wastewater
at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant headworks for treatment.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Discharger shares an outfall with the Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Wastewater
Treatment Plant in Mill Valley (regulated under NPDES Permit No. CA0037711). Discharge of
treated effluent to Raccoon Strait in Central San Francisco Bay is through a 36-inch outfall and a
submerged, multi-port diffuser (Discharge Point No. 001) located about 840 feet offshore. The
diffuser spans 195 feet and consists of 15 risers, each with four 3-inch diameter ports submerged
approximately 84 feet below mean sea level. The average daily outfall capacity is 31.4 MGD. On
August 31 and September 1, 2017, the Discharger inspected and cleaned the diffuser and concluded
that it is in good working order. The outfall meets Basin Plan section 4.6.1 requirements to be
considered a deepwater discharge.
C. Previous Require

===PLANNED CHANGES===

