[Page 2]
12. The Facility has an influent wet well, flow meter, and two acres of treatment and disposal
ponds
13. Wastewater is treated in two clay-lined, mechanically aerated ponds (hereafter “Pond 1” and
“Pond 2”). Wastewater is treated by partial-mix facultative (aerobic-anaerobic) stabilization.
Wastewater is disposed of through a percolation pond and an evaporation pond (hereafter
“Pond 3” and “Pond 4”) in series.
14. The treatment ponds are adjacent to Tres Pinos Creek on gently rolling terrain. Depth to
groundwater is generally less than 20 feet below ground surface. The general groundwater
gradient is to the northwest.
15. The percolation ponds discharge to the San Juan Sub-basin of the Gilroy-Hollister
Groundwater Basin.
16. In 2009, Pond 4 was taken off-line, dried, deep ripped, and disked to improve percolation. The
Facility appears to be handling wastewater flows.
[Page 3]
WDR No. R3-2012-0015 3 February 2, 2012
17. Vegetative growth around the ponds, roadway to the ponds, the lift station, and all other areas
pertaining to the wastewater facility is maintained by contract. Weeds are cut and sprayed with
herbicide in the fall.
18. There is no erosion control around the edges of ponds No. 3 and 4. Erosion is apparent in
pond No. 4.
19. The Facility has an on-site portable emergency generator in case of power failure to operate
the influent lift station pump and its components.
Current Capacity
20. The Facility is designed to serve a maximum population of 750 persons and permitted to have
a daily flow of 60,000 gallons averaged over each month (30-day average). The historical
average 30-day wastewater flow (2006 through 2010) is approximately 23,000 gpd.
Compliance History
21. Report reviews and inspections performed by Water Board staff of the Facility in November
2003 and February 2006 revealed broken flow meters that were unreported, disposal pond
bank destabilization, and pond bank vegetation overgrowth. Other reports cite Tres Pinos
CWD as having discussed reducing aerator operation based on the Water District’s inability
to pay its electrical bills. The Tres Pinos CWD re-evaluated its operations and addressed the
aforementioned Facility maintenance requirements in June 2006.
Treatment Efficiency
22. Three monitoring wells upgradient and downgradient of the treatment and disposal pond
areas produce representative samples and establish groundwater gradient. These wells are
located such that proper triangulation can be made to determine the wastewater disposal’s
impact on the surrounding groundwater.
23. Previous monitoring requirements provide only limited data regarding Pond 1 and Pond 2
treatment efficiencies. Existing effluent sampling consists of daily flow measurements,
monthly dissolved oxygen and freeboard measurements, and semiannual (April and
October) TDS, sodium, chloride, nitrate, and pH analyses.
24. Organic stabilization (reduction of biochemical oxygen demand [BOD]) and total suspended
solids (TSS) removal efficiencies are essentially undocumented. Influent wastewater
sampling was not required in the previous permit.
25. Elevat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

