[Page 120]
2023. More stringent limits were applied for metals and new limits applied for
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-6
ADOPTED: 12/18/2025
[Page 121]
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER NO. R4-2025-0272
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY- NPDES NO. CA0064726
ammonia (as N), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), hydrogen sulfide, and
TSS. Treatment at the Facility consists of wastewater processing and
biosolids processing.
The design flow of the treatment facility is 14 MGD and the new ocean outfall
has a design capacity of 10 MGD. The ocean outfall is sized such that
together with storage/equalization facilities onsite and the outfall to the
Estuary, the Facility will be able to accommodate peak flows during a 5-year,
24-hour storm event. The ocean outfall is an interim discharge point for
tertiary-treated wastewater diverted from the Estuary until construction of the
Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) is complete. During the Phase
1A discharge reduction period to the Estuary, tertiar

[Page 121]
5-year-24-hour storm using the ocean outfall and storage regardless of
whether the berm is open or closed.
2.1.2. Following is a description of the treatment processes:
a. Primary Treatment: The primary treatment consists of screening, grit
removal, primary sedimentation and flow equalization. Ferrous chloride is
injected into the primary sedimentation sludge to control hydrogen sulfide
production and to aid in primary settling. Settled solids are removed from
the primary clarifier for biosolids processing.
b. Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR): Biological treatment consists of bio-
augmentation at a biologically activated reaeration (BAR) tank, feeding
into two parallel anoxic tanks and four parallel aeration tanks for full
nitrification and denitrification (NDN). Activated sludge and mixed liquor
recycling is utilized to balance load demands within the system.
c. Secondary and Tertiary Treatment: Mixed liquor is transferred to six
parallel rectangular secondary final sedimentation tanks for secondary
settling. Return activated sludge is collected from the clarifiers and
returned to the BAR process, while waste activated sludge is sent to the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-7
ADOPTED: 12/18/2025
[Page 122]
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER NO. R4-2025-0272
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY- NPDES NO. CA0064726
biosolids treatment processes. The secondary treated effluent is sent to
the horizontal pressurized mixed media filtration process.
d. Effluent Disinfection: The tertiary-treated effluent is disinfected using
gaseous chlorine and ammonia to create chloramines with contact time
through the chlorine contact chambers. Most of the disinfected tertiary-
treated effluent is dechlorinated using gaseous sulfur dioxide and
conveyed to the ocean outfall pump station. Effluent that is not conveyed
to the ocean outfall is conveyed through the effluent transfer stations to a
series of ‘wildlife/water quality polishing’ ponds before discharging to the
Santa Clara River Estuary. A portion of the disinfected effluent, averaging
0.48 MGD annually, is distributed for beneficial reuse for landscape
irrigation or dust control.
e. Biosolids Handling: The biosolids system consists of dissolved air
flotation thickening, anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering. The
primary settled sludge is sent directly to anaerobic digesters for
thickening. Waste activated sludge is removed from the secondary final
sedimentation tanks and thickened in the dissolved air flotation unit.
Thickened primary and secondary sludge is sent to three anaerobic
digesters operated in parallel for stabilization to achieve Class B biosolids.
Utilizing the methane gas produced by anaerobic digestion, a co-
generation system fuels an engine that keeps the digester heated through
a series of heat exchangers. Anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered
through one of two centrifuges to produce a cake of 18 to 23 percent
solids. Sludge cake is conveyed to tractor trailers and hauled off-site for
disposal. Centrate waste streams flow back to the BAR tank for treatment.
Centrate flows can be equalized by entering the filtrate equalization tank
prior to the BAR tank so that the BAR tank receives constant flow. All the
Class B anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered and sent to an offsite
contracted composting facility.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. Discharge Point 001 – Santa Clara River Estuary (separately regulated
under the Estuary Discharge Permit (Order No. R4-2020-0024/NPDES No.
CA0053651))
The Ventura WRF discharges tertiary-treated municipal wastewater to the
Estuary via unlined wildlife ponds. Treated effluent is discharged from the
plant to surface waters at the following coordinates:
Latitude: 34.23937°, Longitude: -119.25870°
2.2.2. Discharge Point 002 – Pacific Ocean
The Ventura WRF discharges tertiary-treated wastewater to the Pacific
Ocean through a new outfall that extends approximately 6,600 feet off the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-8
ADOPTED: 12/18/2025
[Page 123]
CITY OF VENT

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Plant upgrades are planned for the existing wastewater treatment plant in
addition to new facilities planned to protect the estuary ecology, develop
additional water supply sources to meet water demands for planned future
growth, and enhance supply reliability even in drought years.
1. Aeration, Filtration, and Chlorination Process Replacement with Membrane
Bioreactor and Ultraviolet Light Disinfection (MBR/UV)
New BNR tanks, MBR, and UV will replace the secondary, tertiary, and
chlorination systems currently used at the Ventura WRF. The new equipment
will replace aging, structurally deficient equipment; provide improved nutrient
and pathogen removal; and provide a safer disinfection process. Construction
is expected to be completed by 2030.
2. The Discharger is also planning for construction of an AWPF located near the
Ventura WRF on an undeveloped parcel on the corner of Harbor Boulevard
and Olivas Park Drive. Tertiary-treated wastewater from the Ventura WRF will
be diverted to the AWPF for further treatment for indirect potable reuse.
Construction of the AWPF is expected t