[Page 64]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
The City of Watsonville owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system which provides sewerage service for a population of approximately 55,000 in an area that
includes the City of Watsonville, the Santa Cruz County Freedom Sanitation District, the Santa
Cruz County Salsipuedes Sanitary District, and the Monterey County Pajaro Sanitation District. The
collection system encompasses 21 square miles and includes more than 170 miles of sanitary
sewer lines which currently receive wastes discharged from residential, commercial, and 10
significant industrial facilities, including several food processors. Each member agency owns,
operates, and maintains a sanitary sewer system that conveys wastewater to the Discharger’s
force main for transport to the facility. The Wastewater Treatment Facility's design, average dry
weather treatment capacity is 12 MGD, with a design peak wet weather treatment capacity of 36
MGD. Average daily influent flow ranges from 6.5 – 8.5 MGD.
Treatment facilities consist of screening, pre-aeration/grit removal, primary sedimentation,
biological filtration (trickling filters), odor control, solids contact stabilization (activated sludge), and
secondary clarification. Since approximately 1998, the Facility has not disinfected its effluent prior
to ocean outfall discharge. The Discharger currently uses near-shore monitoring to demonstrate
compliance with bacteriological water quality objectives, i.e., the outfall is deep enough and far
enough away from near-shore areas to prevent exceedances of water quality objectives protective
of the beneficial uses shown in Table F-5 below. Disinfection would be necessary should the
Discharger fail to meet treatment standards and/or exceed effluent and/or receiving water
limitations. Of the four major dischargers into the Monterey Bay (Santa Cruz, Watsonville, Carmel,
and Monterey Regional), only Santa Cruz and Carmel disinfect their effluents prior to outfall
discharge.
Biosolids (sewage sludge or solid wastes) are treated on the site using gravity thickening,
anaerobic digestion, drying beds, and belt filter press dewatering, and are land-applied at various
sites. Methane gas by-product from sludge digestion is used as a fuel for producing electrical
energy and heat, which are then used at the facility.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 65]
WATSONVILLE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY ORDER NO. R3-2014-0006
NPDES NO. CA0048216
The Watsonville Wastewater Treatment Facility typically accepts less than 10,000 gallons per
month of hauled brine wastes, which are segregated from wastewater treatment steps but are
blended with treated wastewater for discharge through the ocean outfall. The Discharger does not
anticipate an increase in the volume or change in the quality of hauled brine wastes accepted at
the treatment plant during the term of this Order.
The Facility also accepts landfill leachate from the City of Watsonville Landfill and from Recology
Pacheco Pass (formerly Pacheco Pass Landfill). The Facility typically receives 80,000 to 100,000
gallons of leachate per calendar month. The leachate is hauled to the facility via trucks and is
discharged into the septic receiving station and from there is directed into the headworks. The
Pretreatment Program issues permits requiring semiannual self-monitoring and reporting for any
landfill leachate received from outside the City.
Beginning in 2008, the City of Watsonville and the Pajaro Valley Water Management Agency jointly
implement the Watsonville Area Recycling Project, which provides reclaimed wastewater for
regional irrigation use and thereby reduces dependence on over-drafted sources of groundwater. A
Recycled Water Facility has been constructed at the Watsonville Wastewater

===PLANNED CHANGES===

