[Page 60]
2. Wastewater Treatment
Attachment C contains flow diagrams for the Richmond Plant and the West County Plant.
a. West County Wastewater District Water Pollution Control Plant. The wastewater
treatment processes at the West County Plant consist of flow equalization basins, bar
screens, a grit removal chamber, primary clarifiers, aeration basins with anaerobic
chambers (for nutrient removal using a Modified Ludzack-Ettinger [MLE] biological
nutrient removal [BNR] process), secondary clarifiers, and a chlorine contact chamber.
Treated wastewater from the West County Plant is sent to the Richmond Advanced
Recycled Expansion (RARE) facility and the North Richmond Water Reclamation Plant
for recycling at the Chevron refinery, or is pumped to the Richmond Plant where it is
combined with Richmond Plant effluent, dechlorinated, and then discharged through
West County Agency’s deep-water outfall into Central San Francisco Bay.
b. Richmond Municipal Sewer District Water Pollution Control Plant. The wastewater
treatment processes at the Richmond Plant consist of bar screens, primary sedimentation
basins, activated sludge basins, secondary clarifiers, and chlorine contact basins for
disinfection. The Richmond Plant Critical Improvements Project will include a new
headworks consisting of finer bar screens and grit removal, an aeration upgrade
(replacing the mechanical surface aerators with a more efficient diffused aeration
system), and replacement of the secondary clarifier mechanisms to improve performance.
3. Collection System. The West County Wastewater District and the City of Richmond
independently own and operate their treatment plants and the sanitary sewer collection
systems within their separate service areas. The West County Wastewater District has about
249 miles of gravity sewer and 11 miles of force main with 17 pump stations. The City of
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 61]
West County Agency Order No. R2-2019-0003
West County Agency Common Outfall NPDES No. CA0038539
Richmond has about 179 miles of gravity sewer and 4.1 miles of force main with 13 pump
stations. Both collection systems are separately covered by the statewide General Waste
Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ).
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Secondary-activated sludge removed from the Richmond
Plant is thickened by dissolved air flotation, combined with primary sludge, and then
anaerobically digested. The digested sludge is pumped via force main to the West County Plant
for drying and disposal. At the West County Plant, primary clarifier sludge is combined with
thickened secondary clarifier sludge that has been thickened using dissolved air flotation. All
supernatant is returned at controlled volumes to the West County Plant. The sludge is
anaerobically digested and sent to lagoons for storage and solar drying in drying beds. Dried
biosolids are hauled offsite by truck for disposal at a municipal landfill (e.g., Keller Canyon
Landfill or Vasco Road Landfill).
5. Stormwater Management. The Dischargers are not required to be covered under the State
Water Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial
activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all stormwater at the individual plants
and pump stations is collected and directed to the plant headworks for treatment.
6. Recycled Water. The West County Wastewater District recycles about 6.0 MGD of treated
wastewater from the West County Plant by sending it to the East Bay Municipal Utility District
for treatment and use at the Chevron refinery.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Treated wastewater from the West County Plant and the Richmond Plant is combined,
dechlorinated, and discharged through Discharge Point No. 001. Located about 8,200 feet offshore
in Central San Francisco Bay at a depth varying from 24 to 32 feet below mean sea level, the outfall
meets Basin Plan section 4.6.1 requirements to be considered a deepwater discharge. The outfall is
equipped with a multi-port diffuser consisting of a 6-foot diameter, 1,112-foot long reinforced
concrete pipe embe

[Page 65]
3. Wet Weather Bypasses. The City of Richmond bypassed biological treatment 24 times
between 2014 and 2017 as summarized in Table F-5. To reduce the number of wet weather
bypasses, the City of Richmond installed a 5-million-gallon storage tank in 2015. The City of
Richmond’s December 2017 Utility Analysis for Wet Weather Bypasses indicates that
collection system repairs are needed to eliminate wet weather bypasses (i.e., blending). The
City of Richmond anticipates that sewer repairs will reduce, but not eliminate, wet weather
bypasses during this permit term. Provision VI.C.5.b requires the City to replace or repair
15.2 miles of its collection system to reduce blending.
Table F-5. Historical Blending Summary
Volume That
Number of Bypassed Secondary Blending Duration
Year
Blending Days Treatment (Hours)
(million gallons)
2014 6 93 187
2015 2 1.6 10
2016 8 78 125
2017 8 190 536
Average 6 91 216
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-10
[Page 66]
West County Agency Order No. R2-2019-0003
West County Agency Common Outfall NPDES No. CA0038539
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
To improve treatment performance and reliability, the City of Richmond will construct a new
headworks with finer bar screens and grit removal and will replace its mechanical surface
aerators with a diffused aeration system. It will also replace the secondary clarifier mechanisms,
replace the current dissolved air flotation thickener with a rotary drum thickener, upgrade to
chemically enhanced primary treatment, and replace the dechlorination system.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with § 13260) for discharges to waters of the State. This Order is also issued
pursuant to Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and implementing regulations adopted by
U.S. EPA and Water Code chapter 5.5, division 7