[Page 2]
8. The overall footprint of the WRRF will comprise about three acres, which will be
divided between an access area, an influent pump station and screening area,
biological treatment tanks, an effluent processing area, an effluent storage tank,
and an emergency storage pond, excluding the winter storage ponds. A process
flow diagram for the proposed Tejon Mountain Village WRRF is included as
Attachment C (incorporated herein). The treatment process will consist of
influent pumping, screening, equalization, two-stage aeration tanks, tertiary cloth
media filtration, and an ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system supplemented by
chlorination disinfection.
9. A sequencing batch reactor (SBR) system will be constructed to provide
secondary biological treatment of the wastewater. Multiple basins will be installed
in parallel to allow for continuous processing of the influent flow, and a post-
decant equalization tank will further treat the influent following the SBR. The
Phase I SBR will consist of two 30-foot by 37-foot SBR reactors with depths of 10
to 14 feet below the ground surface (bgs). Each tank will have an overall depth of
16 feet bgs to allow for a minimum of two feet of freeboard. The tanks will have
minimum and maximum operating volumes of 83,000 and 116,240 gallons, and a
decant volume of 33,240 gallons per batch. According to the Title 22 Engineering
Report, this system will provide both nitrification and denitrification of the
wastewater.
10. After the SBR system, effluent will be gravity fed through cloth media filters (up to
six at full buildout). The filtered effluent will then be disinfected using an
open-channel UV disinfection system.
11. In the event the wastewater quality is not suitable for recycled water use, a
600,000-gallon lined emergency storage basin(s) will be constructed and used to
re-route the effluent back through the treatment system for treatment for
Phase 1. The project will provide 1.25 million gallons of emergency storage at full
build out. According to the Design Report, the emergency storage bas

===PLANNED CHANGES===

