[Page 79]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Yuba City and serves a
population of approximately 52,000. The Facility design average dry weather flow
capacity is 10.5 mgd. In addition, the Facility accepts septage from unsewered portions of
Sutter and Yuba Counties. The current residential monthly sewer fee for a single family
dwelling is $27.62. The current hook-up/capacity fee is $5,100 per single family dwelling
(plus costs associated with installation of onsite pipelines and the pipeline from the sewer
main to the home).
Treated municipal and industrial wastewater is discharged to the Feather River or to
disposal ponds within the levee on the eastern side of the Feather River. The Facility also
uses treated wastewater for landscape irrigation of 3.5 acres at the Facility. The Report of
Waste Discharge estimates the seasonal dependent annual average daily volume used for
irrigation to be 0.10 mgd.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
In 2005 the Discharger completed an upgrade of the Facility to meet current and future
demands. The treatment system at the Facility currently consists of bar screens,
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 80]
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER NO. R5-2007-0134-01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079260
aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, pure oxygen aeration, secondary
sedimentation, chlorine disinfection, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. In
addition, pH adjustment with sodium hydroxide solution is performed as needed in the
chlorine contact basins. Nutrients (aqueous ammonia and ammonia polyphosphate)
are added at the inlet box to aeration basins on an as-needed basis to ensure adequate
food-to-microorganisms ratio in the activated sludge process due to nutritionally dilute
industrial discharges. Approximately 50 percent of the biochemical oxygen demand
loading to the Facility is from one significant industrial user (Sunsweet Growers) that
discharges a nutritionally dilute industrial discharge.
Biosolids are thickened using dissolved air flotation thickeners, and then anaerobically
digested. Digested biosolids are dewatered by belt press and/or drying beds, and
disposed of off-site as landfill cover material. The Facility is also equipped with three
composite bed biofilters that are used to control odors from headworks, primary
sedimentation, and dewatering building operations.
The Discharger Report of Waste Discharge included a Capacity Evaluation that was
prepared in June 2006 subsequent to completion of the 2005 Facility upgrade. The
evaluation examined each of the unit processes to determine the limiting unit process in
terms of flow capacity. This evaluation concluded that the upgraded Facility is capable
of handling and treating 10.5 mgd of average dry weather flow. The limiting unit
process was determined to be primary sedimentation. Upon review of the Capacity
Evaluation submitted by the Discharger, the Regional Water Board concurs with the
study conclusions.
As described above, effluent from the Facility may be directed to one or more of six
disposal (percolation) ponds. Each disposal pond is roughly 1 million square feet in
size; the total capacity of the six disposal ponds is approximately 179 million gallons. At
the ponds, the depth to groundwater is approximately 30 feet. The Facility can
discharge to any pond at any time. There is no operational plan on which disposal pond
to use and when. The Facility’s goal is to have all disposal ponds dry by 1 November of
each year. According to the Report of Waste Discharge, the annual average flow to the
disposal ponds is 5.41 mgd calculated from days discharge was to the ponds.
The six disposal ponds are at varying elevations such that the flow will cascade from the
first pond to the last pond depending on the water level of the pond (pond 1 is the
highest elevation and pond 6 is the lowest elevation). When flooding occurs pond 6 will
receive flood waters first, then pond 5, etc. Pond 6 previously had a discharge point to
the Feather River, but this discharge point has been removed and no longer exists.
The following description of disposal pond operation was provided by the Discharger:
“Yuba City currently uses the effluent ponds during planned maintenance
of process units such as the chlorine contact basin. In addition, the
effluent ponds are used to protect the Feather River water quality in the
event permit requirements can not be achieved. Finally the ponds provide
permit compliance reliability.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 81]
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER NO. R5-2007-0134-01
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0079260
The ponds are located between the two main east and west levee banks
within the Feather River floodway however; they are above the physical
ordinary high water mark (elevation). Discharge to the ponds occurs from
underground piping to outlets near the center of the ponds. The water
then percolates through the ponds with corresponding evaporation. The
ponds may collect rain water during the winter months however scheduled
maintenance does not occur during the winter months.
Ponds can be operated in series from north to south, or flow can be
directed to any individual pond. In order to reduce impacts from weeds
and mosquitoes, ponds are normally supplied water individually to “flood”
weed and plant growth, and to allow mosquito fish to be added as soon as
possible.”
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 7-010-001, T15N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B (Figure B-1), a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal and industrial wastewater is discharged from a multi-port diffuser
into t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

