Facility).
B. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and submitted an application for
renewal of the Waste Discharge Requirements on April 13, 2009 to discharge up
to 100,000 gallons per day (gpd) of secondary treated wastewater to on-site
evaporation/percolation ponds. A site visit was conducted by Regional Water
Board staff on July 8, 2009 to observe operations and collect additional data to
develop the waste discharge requirements.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Control
The Wilderness Lakes RV Park is spread over 80 acres and has about 523 rental
spaces. Past flow data submitted by the current and previous Dischargers
indicates that the park generates a maximum daily flow of approximately 25,000
gallons per day of domestic wastewater. Wastewater is collected at four
separate lift stations and then directed to the Facility which is an extended
aeration package treatment plant. The treatment system consists of two above
ground aeration units equipped with fine bubble diffusers, two air-blowers, and
one secondary clarifier. Secondary treated wastewater is discharged into
evaporation/percolation ponds. Waste sludge from the clarifier is currently
discharged to an unlined basin where it is dried and then hauled offsite for proper
disposal.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes -Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the proposed Order are based on the requirements
and authorities described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements pursuant to Article 4, Chapter
4 of the California Water Code.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
The project involves the update of waste discharge requirements for an existing
facility and, as such, is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
(Public Resources Code, Section 21100 et. seq.) in accordance with Section
15301, Chapter 3, Title 14, California Code of Regulations.
C. State Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plans. The Regional Water Board adopted a Water
Quality Control Plan for the Santa Ana Basin (hereinafter Basin Plan) that
became effective on January 24, 1995. The Basin Plan designates beneficial
uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation
programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed
through the plan.
Order No. R8-2009-0046 -Attachment F -Fact Sheet Page F-7 of F-15
MHC NAC, Inc
Wilderness Lakes STP
On January 22,2004, the Regional Water Board adopted Resolution No.
R8-2004-0001, amending the Basin Plan to incorporate revised boundaries
for groundwater subbasins, now termed "management zones", new nitrate­
nitrogen and TDS objectives for the new management zones, and new
nitrogen and TDS management strategies applicable to both surface and
ground waters. The State Water Board and Office of Administrative Law
(OAL) approved the NrrDS Amendment on September 30, 2004 and
December 23, 2004, respectively. Accordingly, these waste discharge
requirements implement relevant, groundwater-related components of the
NrrDS Amendment. Specifically, the total dissolved solids (TDS) and total
inorganic nitrogen (Tlt:-J) limitations established in this Order are based on the
amended Basin Plan.
The discharge overlies the Menifee Groundwater Management Zone, the
beneficial uses of which are as follows:
Discharge Point