Wastewater System Operation Summary
Machado Wastewater Treatment Facility (Wastewater System) consists of four partially -
mixed aerated lagoons connected in series. After the fourth pond, wastewater is
discharged to three percolation basins for disposal. Sludge is dried on site and the dried
biosolids are periodically hauled away to an authorized disposal facility4. The
wastewater system was upgraded in the late 1990s with the addition of two additional
ponds (Pond 1 and Pond 2) which brought the treatment capacity up to 200,000 gpd .
The San Miguel Community Service District is aware that the existing wastewater
system is approaching treatment capacity and is actively working towards replacing the existing system with a membrane bioreactor and producing recycled water for irrigation uses.
 San Miguel Community Service District is also responsible for operation and maintenance of the collec tion system that serves the community of San Miguel. The
collection system is enrolled in State Water Board Order WQ 2022- 0103- DWQ,
Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements General Order for Sanitary Sewer Systems.

The wastewater system is a Class I wastewater system . San Miguel Community Service
District must staff a Grade I chief plant operator for proper operation of the Wastewater
System. Operator names, grades, and license numbers are shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Wastewater System Operators
Operator Name Grade License Number
Kelly Dodds 2 28693
Dustin Pittman 2 53462
Trevor Paslay 1 59082

The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment
capabilities shown in Table 3.

Table 3. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment There is no existing headworks treatment at this plant.
Headworks capacity (gpd): not applicable
Primary Treatment This plant uses aerated ponds to provide primary
treatment
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 200,000
Secondary Treatment This plant use s aerated and non -aerated ponds to provide
secondary treatment
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 200,000
Tertiary Treatment NONE
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): not applicable

4 Central Coast Water Board staff notified San Miguel Community Services District in the January 14 ,
2026 notice of violation that their sludge drying bed does not comply with General Permit requirements.
San Miguel CSD January 15, 2026
Machado Wastewater Treatment Facility

Attachment 1 - 3 - Disinfection NONE
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): not applicable
Wastewater Disposal
Method Effluent is piped to percolation ponds at the wastewater
facility which percolate the entire plant flow. Three
percolation ponds are available and are rotated as
needed.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 200,000
Emergency Wastewater Disposal (Spray Field and Disposal Bed) Discharge to the emergency disposal areas is temporarily
approved through June 30, 2026. San Miguel Community
Services District must obtain Central Coast Water Board
staff approval via email prior to discharging to the emergency disposal areas after this date. The Central Coast Water Board may notify San Miguel Community Services District at any time to remove the authority to use
the emergency disposal methods including the spray field and disposal bed.
The emergency spray field is approximately 4.95 acres
and is located to the north of the facility on San Miguel
Community Services District -owned property .
The emergency disposal bed is approximately 0.46 acre
and is located at the southeast corner of the facility property .
See section 3.F below for use requirements for the
emergency spray field and disposal bed .
San Miguel Community Services District must monitor and
report on disposal to the emergency spray field and emergency disposal bed in compliance with Monitoring
and Reporting Program R3 -2026 -0010.
Biosolids/Sludge Production and Handling Solids are pumped to a drying bed, once sufficently dried
they are hauled to either a landfill or composting facility.
Hauling of sludge is not an annual event.
Annual production of biosolids: 50 tons
Biosolids are disposed at Paso Robles Landfill ( in Paso
Robles California ), or occasionally Chicago Grade landfill
(in Templeton California ) or Liberty Compost ( in Lost Hills
California ).
Non-Potable Recycled
Water No, wastewater system does NOT produce non -potable
recycled water

3. Wastewater System Specific Requirements and Limitations
All dischargers enrolled in the General Permit must comply with groundwater limits
described in the General Permit, regardless of the compliance pathway chosen.
Because San Miguel Community Service District already has groundwater monitoring
San Miguel CSD January 15, 2026
Machado Wastewater Treatment Facility

Attachment 1 - 4 - wells and monitors groundwater as part of their previous permit requirements,
groundwater monitoring is required.
 San Miguel Community Service District must operate the Wastewater System in accordance with the General Permit and this notice of a pplicability. San Miguel
Community Service District must comply with the wastewater -specific flow and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

