FACILITY DESCRIPTION

Facility Upgrades, Treatment Capacity , Planned Uses, and Waste Classification

9. The recycled water system improvements include tertiary treatment, construction of a new
recycled water storage pond , a recycled water fill station, a pump station, and a transmission
pipeline.

10. The Facility is designed to receive a peak daily flow of 50 ,000 gallons per day (gpd) and
capable of recycl ing a maximum of 48,000 gpd . The Facility currently receives a 30-day
average dry weather flow of 14 ,000 gpd and an annual average flow of 22,000 gpd based on
data collected from 2011 to 2013 . Total annual recycled water production is approximately 20
acre- feet/year .

11. The new recycled water storage pond is lined with high density polyethylene to prevent
seepage to groundwater and has a storage capacity of 9 -acre- feet. This provid es storage of
recycled water for up to approximately 171 days at the daily average production design flow
rate.

12. Planned uses for the recycled water are:

a. Facility washdown,
b. Agricultural irrigation,
c. Dust control,
d. Concrete batching,
e. Sand/gravel washing,
f. Spray down during construction,
g. Surface washing of walls and walkways1,

1 Surface washing of walls and walkways are not allowed at designated (indoor or outdoor) eating areas.
Master Reclamation Requirements 3 May 17, 2019
Order No. R3-2019- 0008
h. Street sweeping,
i. Domestic landscape irrigation, and for
j. Maintaining California Red Legged Frog (CRLF) habitat near the recycling facility .

13. The Facility has a threat to water quality2 of 3 and complexity of B, therefore assigning a
waste classification of 3B to the discharge.

Treatment and Storage

14. The f ollowing is a summary of the wastewater treatment and recycling system components.
a. Influent lift pumps and flow meter
b. ¼ inch gravity screen
c. 12 acre- foot aerated treatment
lagoon (~4.0 million gallons)
d. Upflow sand filter
e. Programmable logic controller
f. Chlorine contact chamber
g. Influent and tertiary effluent c hlorine
residual analyzer s
h. Calcium thiosulfate tank
i. Water level transmitters j. Dissolved oxygen and suspended
solids analyzers
k. Continuous monitoring e ffluent
turbidity meter
l. Tertiary effluent flow meter
m. Recycled water storage pond ( 9-acre
feet)
n. Chemical feed and storage building
and chemical level sensors.
o. Alarms and generator

15. The w astewater treated at the Facility is of domestic origin, received from the small town of
Davenport. All domestic wastewater from the town flows by gravity to a pumping station and
is pumped to the treatment plant. The pumped domestic wastewater passes a screen that
removes particles larger than 0.25 inches.

16. The screened domest ic wastewater enters the 12 -acre-foot aerated treatment lagoon , where
the wastewater is treated (oxidized) to a secondary effluent quality.

17. The secondary treated effluent discharges to a filter that is designed to produce high -quality
filtered effluent , which flows by gravity in to an upflow sand filter followed by a chlorine
contact disinfection chamber. The chlorine contact chamber produces an effluent with a
fecal coliform count of less than or equal to 2.2 most probable number per 100 mi lliliters
(MPN/ml) .

18. The recycled water is pumped to the recycled water storage pond prior to use for agricultural
irrigation. Recycled water is pumped directly to the CRLF habitat, fill station, and spray field.

19. Off-specification (not meeting title 22 criteria) treated wastewater is recirculated back into
the 12 -acre-foot aerated treatment lagoon .

Compliance History

20. WDR Order No. 95-27 requires a minimum freeboard of two feet in the receiving 12-acre-
foot aerated treatment lagoon . This requirement was regularly not met from 1999 through
2017.


2 CCR, title 23, division 3 , chapter 9, Waste Discharge Reports and Requirements Article 1. Fees
Master Reclamation Requirements 4 May 17, 2019
Order No. R3-2019- 0008
21. Wastewater runoff from the property was observed in May 2011 during a site inspection by
Central Coast Water Board staff. The Central Coast Water Board issued a notice of violation
to the Discharger for the illicit discharge. The Discharger informed the Central Coast Water
Board that the lack of required freeboard and the illicit offsite discharges were due to solids
buildup in the aerated treatment lagoon taking up almost 80 percent of the it’s capacity. The
Discharger properly removed the sludge in December 2017 and subsequently increased the
size of the aerated treatment lagoon.

Land Uses

22. The surrounding area is principally composed of grazing land and open green space adjacent
to the Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is approximately 1,100- feet north of the Facility . A
portion of the Coast Dairies State Park is to the west of the Facility running north and south
along State Highway 1.
Geographic Setting & Geology

23. The Facility is situated on the southwestern slope of the central Santa Cruz Mountains, which
is part of the Coast Ranges geomorphic province of California. This area is underlain by a
large, northwest -trending, elongated prism of granitic and metamorphic basement rocks that
are Cretaceous in age, or older. The granitic and metamorphic basement is overlain by marine
and non- marine sediments of the Pleistocene age (Qcl).

24. Agua Puera Creek flows approximately 700-feet north of the recycl ed water storage pond
where it crosses the San Gregorio Fault Zone. Steep escarpment slopes drop off toward the
north at the top of the drainage divide to Agua Puera Creek . Gentler slopes extend south and
west across the property . San Vicente Creek flows 4,000 feet south of the Facility .

Climate Change

25. The Discharger will adopt the County of Santa Cruz’s Climate Action Strategy . This
document presents a vulnerability assessment action plan to address sea level rise,
flooding, and extreme storm events. The Facility is not listed in the Santa Cruz Climate
Action Strategy as critical infrastructure to be affected by sea level rise or flooding in the
next 50- years.

26. FEMA Flood Hazard Area maps of the Facility location and collection system indicate flooding
is limited to an area around creeks and to the southern side of Highway 1. The flooding
around creeks does not impact the Facili ty and collection system and flooding on the
southside of Highway 1 is on the opposite side of the Facility.

27. The Facility is approximately 1,100- feet north of the Pacific Ocean coastline at an elevation
between 115- feet to 118- feet above mean sea level based on aerial surveys performed in the
most recent past two years. This elevation is confirmed by a roadway benchmark marker on
Highway 1 immediately west of the Facility that has a recorded elevation of 99.59- feet above
mean sea level.

Human Right to Water

28. California Water Code section 106.3, subdivision (a) states: It is a policy of the State of
California “that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and accessible
Master Reclamation Requirements 5 May 17, 2019
Order No. R3-2019- 0008
water adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitation purposes.” The Order
incorporates the human right to water policy by requiring the discharger to comply with

===PLANNED CHANGES===

