A. Initial Notification – Although State and Regional Water Board staff do
not have duties as first responders, this requirement is an appropriate
mechanism to ensure that the agencies that do have first responder duties
are notified in a timely manner in order to protect public health and
beneficial uses. For certain spills, overflows and bypasses, the City shall
make notifications as required below:
a. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code
section 5411.5, the City shall provide notification to the local health
officer or the director of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the affected water body of any unauthorized release of sewage or
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
40other waste that causes, or probably will cause, a discharge to any
waters of the state as soon as possible, but no later than two (2)
hours after becoming aware of the release.
b. In accordance with the requirements of CWC section 13271, the City
shall provide notification to the California Emergency Management
Agency (Cal EMA) of the release of reportable quantities of
hazardous substances or sewage that causes, or probably will cause,
a discharge to any waters of the state as soon as possib le, but not
later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release. CCR,
Title 23, section 2250, established 1,000 gallons or more as a
reportable quantity of sewage. The phone number for reporting these
releases to the Cal EMA is (800) 852 -7550.
c. The City shall notify the Regional Water Board of any unauthorized
release of sewage from the Water Factory that causes, or probably
will cause, a discharge to a water of the state as soon as possible,
but not later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release.
This initial notification does not need to be made if the City has
notified Cal EMA and the local health officer or the director of
environmental health with jurisdiction over the affected waterbody.
The phone number for reporting these releases of sewage to the
Regional Water Board is (213) 576-6683. The phone numbers for
after hours and weekend reporting of releases of sewage to the
Regional Water Board are (213) 305 -2284 and (213) 305 -2253.
At a minimum, the following information shall be provided to the
Regional Water Board:
i. The location, date, and time of the release;
ii. The water body that may be impacted by the discharge;
iii. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released
and the amount that reached the receiving wat er at the time of
notification;
iv. If ongoing, the estimated flow rate of the release at the time of
the notification;
v. The name, organization, phone number and email address of
the reporting representative; and
vi. A certification that the State Office of Emergency Services and
the local health officer or directors of environmental health with
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
41jurisdiction over the possibly affected water bodies have been
notified of the discharge.
B. Monitoring – For spills, overflows and bypasses reported under section
X.21.A, the City shall monitor as required below :
To define the geographical extent of spill’s impact, the City shall obtain
grab samples (if feasible, accessible, and safe) for all spills, overfl ows or
bypasses of any volume that reach any waters of the State (including
surface and ground waters). The City shall analyze the samples for total
and fecal coliform, Escherichia coli ([E. coli ], if a fecal coliform test shows
positive), enterococcus , and relevant pollutants of concern, upstream and
downstream of the point of entry of the spill (if feasible, accessible and
safe). This monitoring shall be done on a daily basis from time the spill is
known until the results of two (2) consecutive sets of bacteriological
monitoring indicate the return to the background level or the County
Department of Public Health authorizes cessation of monitoring.
C. Reporting – The initial notification required under section X.21.A shall be
followed by :
a. As soon as possible, but not later than twenty -four (24) hours after
becoming aware of an unauthorized discharge of sewage or other
waste from its wastewater treatment plant to a water of the state, the
City shall submit a statement to Regional Water Board staff via email.
If the discharge is 1,000 gallons or more, this statement shall certify
that Cal EMA has been notified of the discharge in accordance with
CWC section 13271. The statement shall also certify that the local
health officer or director of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the affected water bodies has been notified of the discharge in
accordance with Health and Safety Code section 5411.5. The
statement shall also include at a minimum the following information:
i. Agency, Order No., and MRP No. ;
ii. The location, date, and time of the discharge;
iii. The water body that received the discharge;
iv. A description of the level of treatment of the sewage or other
waste discharged;
v. An initial estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste
release d and the amount that reached the impacted water body;
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
42vi. The Cal EMA control number and the date and time that
notification of the incident was provided to Cal EMA; and
vii. The name of the local health officer or director of environmental
health represe ntative notified (if contacted directly); the date
and time of notification; and the method of notification (e.g.,
phone, fax, email).
b. A written preliminary report shall be submitted to the Regional Water
Board within five (5) working days after disclos ure of the incident via
the State Water Board GeoTracker database under Global ID
WDR100016910 . The final written report shall be included in the next
quarterly monitoring report submitted to the GeoTracker database
above. The written report shall document the information required in
paragraph section X.21.D below, monitoring results and any other
information required in provisions of the Standard Provisions
document including corrective measures implemented or proposed
to be implemented to prevent/minimize future occurrences.
c. The City shall include a certification in the annual summary report
(due according to the schedule in the accompanying MRP) that
states that the sewer system emergency equipment, including alarm
systems, backup pumps, standby power generators, and other
critical emergency pump station components were maintained and
tested in accordance with the City’s preventive maintenance plan.
Any deviations from or modifications to the Plan shall be discussed.
D. Records – The City shall prepare and maintain a record of all spills,
overflows or bypasses of raw or partially treated sewage from its collection
system or Water Factory. This record shall be made available to the
Regional Water Board upon request and a spill summary shall be included
in the annual report, as required in the MRP No. CI-10041. The record
shall contain:
a. The date and time of each spill, overflow, or bypass;
b. The location of each spill, overflow, or bypass;
c. The estimated volume of each spill, overflow, or bypass including
gross volume, amount recovered and amount not recovered,
monitoring results as required by section X.21.B;
d. The cause of each spill, overflow, or bypass;
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
43e. Whether each spill, overflow, or bypass entered a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

