A, lnltial Ma%ificatiorr - Athaugh State and Regional Board staff do nd have
duties as first responders, this requirement is an appropriate mechanism to
ensure that the agencies that do have first responder duties ate ndtfted in a
timely manner in order to protect public health and beneficial uses. Fw certain
$pills, meflows and bypasses, the City shall make notificatbm as required
below:
a. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code section
5411.5, the Ci shall provide notification to the local health officer or the
director of environmental heatth with jurisdiction over the affected water
body of any unauthorized release of sewage or other waste that causes,
or probably will cause, a dbcha~e to any waters of the state as soon as
possible, but no later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the
release.
In accordance with the requirements of CWC section 3 3271, !he City shall
provide notification to £he California Emergency Maarapd Agency
(Gal EMA] of the release of reportable quantities af hazardous
substances or sewage that causes, or probably wB cause, a discharge to
any waters of the state as soan as possible, but not later than two (2)
hour8 alter hmnlng aware of the release, CCR, Titte 23, don 2250,
established 1,000 gallons or more as a reportable quantity of sewage.
The phbne number for reporting these releases to the Cal EMA is (800)
852-7550.
c. The Ci shall not@ the Regional Board of any unauthorized releatie of
sewage from the Civic Center Facility that causes, or probably will cause,
a discharge to a water d the state as soon as possibk but not later than
two (2) hours after bcorning awaE of the release. This initial notification
does not need to be made if the City has notified Cal EMA and the local
health oEmr or the dir of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the aed waterbody. The phone number for reporbing these releases of
sewage to the Regional Board is (213) 5764683. The phone numbers for
affer how and weekend reporting of releases of sewage to the Regional
Board are (21 3) 305-2284 and (21 3) 305-2253.
At a minimum, the blowing information shan be provided to the Regional
Board:
City of MBbu
Wk C@ntBr Wa- TteatmeRt F* - Ph- I & II P@8&
Order No. Re201 5mi
i. The location, date, and time of the release:
ii. The mter body that may be impacted by the discharge;
iii. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released and
the amount that rBa~hed the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

