WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system is composed of flow equalization tanks, an aeration basin, three
digesters, a sludge dewatering unit, a secondary clarifier, a chlorine contact basin , a
600,000- gallon storage pond, SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) and
controls system. A summary of the treatment system is included in Table 2 below. A
facility site map , a process flow diagram , and a figure depicting disposal and use areas
are shown in Attachment 2, and are also described in detail in the Title 22 Engineering
Report . Use area operations and requirements are included in Section 6 of the Title 22
Engineering Report .

Table 2. Activated Sludge Treatment, Disposal, and Capacity
Design Flows Peak dry weather daily influent design flow evaluated in
2025 Engineering Report: 35 ,000 gallons per day (gpd)
Original (prior to 1983) t reatment design influent average
flow: 80,000 gpd
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment The headworks consists of a single static bar screen
designed to screen solids. Water can then be pumped into
one of two -5,000 gallon equalization tanks.
Treatment Primary treatment is an activated sludge system, which is
a package type treatment system. The treatment process is classified as extended aeration.
Secondary treatment consists of a clarifier. The clarifier is equipped with three coned tank sections. Each coned section is equipped with two airlift pumps – one airlift pump
is for return sludge and the other removes scum from the surface. The clarified secondary effluent then flows over a
weir from each zone to the disinfection process.
Disinfection The disinfection system is a chlorine contact basin which
includes sodium hypochlorite storage and chemical feed
system. Operations maintain a minimum total chlorine
residual of 5 milligrams per liter ( mg/L ) with a normal
operational goal between 7 to 12 mg/L.
Effluent Storage Pond
and Disposal The treated effluent is conveyed into a 4-acre-foot unlined
effluent storage pond . The majority of the water is recycled
to an ajacent horse pasture area via spray irrigation .
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling The solids handling system is composed of three 5,000
gallon aerobic digester tanks and a Draimad sludge
bagging system.
Indian Springs NOA, Attachment 1 December 9, 2025
3 Non-Potable, Title 22
Recycled Water This wastewater system produces disinfected secondary -
23 recycled water. Recy cled water is pumped from the
pond and then sprayed to irrigate the approximately 12-
acre horse pasture .

3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
California American Water must operate the facility in accordance with the General
Permit and this notice of applicability.5 Wastewater is treated at the Facility with an
activated sludge treatment system . California American Water must operate the system
to comply with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

