existing Facility is designed to provide secondary treatment and disinfection for an average dry weather flow of up to 0.1 mgd. Daily flows in the wet weather months can average more than 0.3 mgd. The existing Facility consists of a headworks with influent flow meter and grease trap, three facultative treatment ponds, and chlorination facilities utilizing gaseous chlorine. The existing Facility also incl udes two effluent storage ponds
and one emergency storage pond for a total storage volume of 5.1 million gallons, and 28.5 acres of pasture on land owned by the Discharger that is irrigated with disinfected secondary effluent. The existing Facility is ina dequately designed to meet the goal of
storing treated effluent during the winter months and reclaiming disinfected, secondary effluent during dry months. For many years, the effluent has not consistently met water quality standards and requirements in Or der No. 85 -162. In addition, storage volume is
insufficient to handle winter season wastewater flows, rainfall, and infiltration and inflow (I&I) and the Discharger has discharged disinfected, secondary treated effluent to land adjacent to Stemple Creek t o prevent overtopping of its storage ponds. These violations
resulted in Cease and Desist Order No. 98- 33 being adopted by the Regional Water
Board on March 26, 1998.
The wastewater collection system consists of approximately 30,000 linear feet of various pipe materials, including polyvinyl chloride, high density polyethylene (HDPE),
cast iron, ductile iron, and vitrified clay that range in size from 4 to10 inches in diameter. The majority of all sanitary sewer flow is conveyed by gravity to the Facility.
The Discharger is enrolled under State Water Board Order No. 2006- 0003- DWQ,
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems . The
Discharger has identified I&I as a problem. The Discharger has completed
evaluations of its colle ction system to identify sources of I&I, including video surveys,
smoke testing, and dye studies and has a program to systematically repair and
replace problematic areas of the collection system, including lift stations, pipeline, and manholes. Based on a n I&I study in 2010, the Discharger has identified approximately
3,800 lineal feet of collection system pipeline and 49 manholes for replacement or repair.
In 2011, grease interceptors were constructed at food handling facilities at TRACEN to prevent the gross discharge of grease to the collection system.
D. New Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The Discharger plans to upgrade the Facility to address deficiencies with the existing system; improve reliability; increase treatment, storage, and disp osal capacity to
accommodate planned expansion of housing and classroom facilities at TRACEN; and add tertiary treatment for part of the flow so that urban areas of the Facility can be
U.S. Coast Guard WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0033
WDID No. 1B72033OSON




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-3
 irrigated with recycled water. The Discharger plans to construct wastewater treatment
and storage facilities to handle the increased population of 2,200 (phase 2), although some facilities, such as aeration basins needed for phase 2 may be constructed, but no aeration equipment would be installed until needed. The reclamat ion system will
be constructed to handle recycled water flows that result from the phase 1 population increase and will be expanded when the population increases above the phase 1 population of 1,700.
The new Facility includes a new headworks including f low monitoring and automated
screening and grit removal; a flow equalization basin; secondary treatment facilities consisting of an activated sludge system with biological nutrient removal (BNR); and chlorine disinfection facilities utilizing sodium hypochlorite. The activated sludge units consist of primary and secondary aeration basins, settling compartments and aerobic digestion compartments. BNR will be accomplished using sequenced aeration in a series of aeration tank compartments. The secondary treatment facility will be divided into two trains to provide flexibility of loading efficiency and redundancy for maintenance. The new secondary treatment process units are designed to treat an
average dry weather flow of 0.197 mgd and a sustained flow of 625 gallons per minute
(0.9 mgd) for a duration of a month. The influent pumps will be set at 0.9 mgd to ensure that the peak treatment capacity is never exceeded and excess influent flows
will be directed to the flow equalization basin which will allow the facility to handle a peak wet weather flow of 3.036 mgd. This is the flow that is identified as the peak wet
weather flow in Table 3 and Discharge Prohibition III.J of the Order.
The new Facility also includes sludge handling and storage facilities that will consist of
a belt filter press housed in an enclosed building and 6 bays of redundant dewatering facilities and storage. All of the storage bays will be constructed with concrete floors.
Two of the storage bays will be outfitted with synthetic filt er media to act as sludge
drying beds for redundancy in operations. All bays slope toward a trench drain that
will route flows back to the headworks for treatment. The Discharger plans to land apply treated, dewatered sludge on- site and plans to enroll under the statewide
biosolids general permit and will develop a sludge management plan consistent with that permit.
The new Facility will also include expanded storage ponds with a capacity of 70 million gallons and disposal of disinfected secondary treated effluent on 84 acres of
agricultural spray fields owned by the Discharger and used by a local rancher to grow grass crop to be harvested and used as feed for dairy cows. Initially, the Discharger plans to develop 73 acres of agricultural spray field. An additional 11 acres of
agricultural spray field will be added when expansion of the training facility campus requires the additional spray fields.
The new Facility will also include tertiary wastewater treatment facilities that will consist of coagulati on, filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection for reuse on 25
U.S. Coast Guard WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0033
WDID No. 1B72033OSON




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-4
 acres of urban landscape areas on the TRACEN property . The tertiary facility will be
designed to treat 300 gallons per minute and will typically be operated 8 to 10 hours
per day duri ng the dry season to produce the volume of tertiary recycled water needed
to meet the urban irrigation demand. The Facility includes a 380,000 gallon holding tank for temporary storage of tertiary recycled water. This volume corresponds to two days of maximum landscape irrigation demand.
The new Facility has been designed to meet the standards for disinfected secondary and disinfected tertiary recycled water contained in Chapter 3, Division 4, title 22 of the California Code of Regulations.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility, and Attachment B
provides a Facility flow schematic.
II. FINDINGS

A. Legal Authorities . This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code). This Order also serves as Reclamation (Recycled Water) Requirements pursuant to section 13523 of the Water Code.
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implem entation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The Basin
Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution
No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should
be cons idered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Estero Americano Area
of the Bodega Hydrologic Unit to be protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply ( MUN)
2. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
3. Freshwater Replenishment to Surface Waters (FRSH)
 The Facility is located immediately adjacent to Stemple Creek, a tributary to the Estero Americano. The existing and potential beneficial uses of the Estero America no
Hydrologic Area of the Bodega Hydrologic Unit (waters potentially affected by the proposed activity) that are to be protected are as follows:

U.S. Coast Guard WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0033
WDID No. 1B72033OSON




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-5
 1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Supply (AGR)
3. Industrial Service Supply (IND)
4. Process Water Su pply (PRO)
5. Groundwater Recharge (GWR)
6. Navigation (NAV)
7. Water Contact Recreation (REC -1)
8. Non-Contact Water Recreation (REC -2)
9. Commercial and Sport Fishing (COMM)
10. Cold Freshwater Habitat (COLD)
11. Wildlife Habitat (WILD)
12. Rare, Threatened, or Endangered Species (RARE)
13. Marine Habitat (MAR)
14. Migration of Aquatic Organisms (MIGR)
15. Spawning, Reproduction, and/or Development (SPWN)
16. Shellfish Harvesting (SHELL)
17. Estuarine Habitat (EST)
18. Aquaculture (AQUA)

C. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements .
Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish such w ater
quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the
reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […]. ” The
control of pollutants discharged is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

