wastewater treatment and d isposal areas.
B. Public Contact. Public contact with wastewate r shall be precluded or control led
through such means as fences and signs, or other acceptable alt ernatives.
C. Pond Freeboard . Pond freeboard in the wastewa ter treatment or storage ponds
shall never be less than two fee t as measured vertically from t he water surface to
the lowest point of overflow.
D. Vector Control. The Facility and effluent disposal areas shall be managed to
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.
E. Dissolved Oxygen. Waste ponded within the oxida tion/percolation/evaporation
ponds shall not have a dissolved oxygen content of less than 1. 0 mg/l.
VI. SOLIDS DISCHARGE SPECIFICATIONS
A. Sludge Storage, Disposal, and Handling Requirements
1. Sludge, as used in this Order, m eans the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues
removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treat ment
processes. Solid waste refers t o grit and screenings generated during
preliminary treatment. Biosolids refers to sludge that has been treated, tested,
and demonstrated to be capable o f being beneficially and legall y used pursuant
to federal and state r egulations as a soil amendment for agricu lture,
silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation activities.
2. All collected sludges and other solid waste removed from liquid wastes shall be
removed from screens, sumps, pon ds, and tanks as needed to ensu re optimal
plant operation and disposed of in accordance with applicable f ederal and
State regulations.
3. The use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with all of the land application
and disposal requirements in Tit le 40, Part 503 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), whi ch are enforceable by the U.S. EPA, not t he Regional
Water Board. If during the life of this Order, the State accept s primacy for
implementation of Part 503, the Regional Water Board may also i nitiate
enforcement where appropriate.
The City of Etna WWTF
Order No. R1‐2015‐0026 WDID No. 1A82104OSIS




 10
 4. Sludge or biosolids that are dis posed of in a mu nicipal solid w aste landfill or used
as daily landfill cover shall m eet the applicable requirements of 40 CFR 258. In
the annual self‐monitoring repor t, the Discharger shall report the amount of
sludge placed in a landfill and the landfill(s) w hich received the sludge or
biosolids.
5. The Discharger shall take all reas onable steps to prevent and m inimize any
sludge use or disposal in violat ion of this Order that may adve rsely affect
human health or the environment.
6. Solids and sludge treatment, stor age, and disposal or reuse sha ll not create a
nuisance, such as objectionable odors or flies, and shall not r esult in
groundwater contamination.
7. Solids and sludge treatment and s torage sites shall have facili ties adequate to
divert surface water runoff from adjacent areas, to protect the boundaries of
the site from erosion, and to prevent drainage from the treatme nt and storage
site. Adequate protection is de fined as protection from at lea st a 100‐year
storm.
8. The discharge of sewage sludge and solids shall not cause waste material to be
in a position where it is, or ca n be, conveyed from the treatme nt and storage
sites and deposited in waters of the State.
9. For the land application of biosolids as soil amendment, the Di scharger shall
submit a report of waste dischar ge or the Discharger may dispos e of biosolids
at another appropriatel y permitted facility.
10. New sludge treatment and storage facilities must comply with th e
requirements of the Water Code and title 27, of the California Code of
Regulations, for the prote ction of water quality.
VII.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

