Description of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
1. Primary Treatment: The primary treatment consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation and flow equalization. Ferric chloride is injected into the primary
sedimentation sludge to control hydrogen sulfide production and to aid in primary settling.
Settled solids are removed from the primary clarifier for biosolids processing.
2. Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR): Biological treatment consists of bio -augmentation
at a biologically activated reaeration (BAR) tank , feeding into two parallel anoxic tanks and
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 four parallel aeration tanks for full nitrification and denitrification (NDN) . Activated sludge
and mixed liquor recycling is utilized to balance load demands within the system.
3. Secondary & Tertiary Treatment: Mixed liquor is transferred to six parallel rectangular
secondary final sedimentation tanks for secondary settling. R eturn activated sludge (RAS)
is collected from the clarifiers and returned to the BAR process, while w aste activated
sludge (WAS) is sent to the biosolids treatment processes. The secondary treated effluent
is sent to the horizontal pressurized mixed media filtration process.
4. Disinfection : The tertiary treated effluent is disinfected using gaseous chlorine with
ammonia addition to create chloramines with contact time through the chlorine contact chambers. Most of the disinfected tertiary treated effluent is dechlorinated using gaseous
sulfur dioxide and sent through the effluent transfer stations ( ETS) to a series of ‘wildlife’
ponds , which are unlined ponds that allow percolation and contain standing water year -
round. A portion of the disinfected effluent , averag ing 0.7 MGD annually , is distributed
using the recycled water system for landscape irrigation or dust control.
5. Biosolids Handling: The biosolids system consists of dissolved air flotation (DAF)
thickener , anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering. The primary settled sludge is
sent directly to anaerobic digesters for thickening. Secondary settled sludge is removed
from the secondary final sedimentation tanks and thickened in the DAF unit. Thickened
sludge is sent to anaerobic digesters for stabilization.
Thickened primary and secondary sludge is sent to three anaerobic digesters operated in parallel to achieve Class B biosolids. Utilizing the methane gas produced by the anaerobic
digestion, a co- generation system fuels an engine that keeps the digester heated through
a series of heat exchangers. Anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered through one of
two centrifuges to produce a cake of 18 to 23 percent solids. Sludge cake is conveyed to tractor trailers and hauled offsite for disposal. Centrate waste streams are sent back to the
facility for treatment. All of the Class B anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered and
sent to an offsite contracted composting facility .
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes contained in the 2018 -2024
Capital Improvement Project .
Table F- 5. Improvement s and Scheduled Implementation Dates
Project Name Description Schedule
Bioaugmentation
Pilot Pilot project to determine if dosing of cultivated bacterial strains
prior to the anoxic basins can augment the ammonia and nitrogen removal of existing BNR process. End of
2019
Aeration Blowers
and Control Replacement Replacing the existing aeration blowers system with new energy -
efficient blowers and instrumentation in a new building, to be fully automated with SCADA and nutrient monitoring control loops. Project completion is dependent upon results for Bioaugmentation Pilot currently under way. Current to
2021
Primary
Treatment
Enhancements This project will evaluate replacing the primary sludge gravity thickener with a new primary sludge thickening unit and pump station. TBD based
on outcome
of other
projects
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-15 Project Name Description Schedule
Tertiary Filter
Replacement This project will replace existing pressure filters with current
technology and provide capacity for future wastewater flows. This
will help to ensure optimal filtration and mitigate future turbidity
exceedances. Fall 2019 to
2020
Anaerobic Digesters Installation of a new gas flare, gas mixing equipment and heating system to improve gas delivery to the cogeneration unit, increase the quality of sludge produced by the digesters, and optimize the performance of the centrifuge dewatering equipme nt. Current to
2020
Increase Anoxic Tank Capacity This project involves the design and construction of two new anoxic
tanks to add to the existing tanks in the adjacent open space. The
increased anoxic capacity will help to alleviate the modified anoxic
zones in the aeration basins, increasing the reliability of the BNR
process and further reduce the level of nitrate. The aeration process controllers and blowers will be updated to increase nitrification. Project need dependent upon results of
Bioaugmentation Pilot currently underway. TBD based
on outcome
of
Bioaugmen
tation Pilot
Secondary Clarifier Improvements This project consists of replacing six existing rectangular secondary
clarifier mechanisms by designing and constructing improvements to better control and monitor flow distribution, enhancing settling of the clarifiers and improving turbidity and solids removal of the facility.
2024
Chlorine Contact
Cover Rehabilitation
and
Replacement This project consists of epoxy -coating the chlorine contact chamber
and the design and construction of a new, permanent cover structure to prevent algae growth within the chambers that may lead to coliform exceedances. In 2011, tarps were installed to
mitigate algae growth and coliform exceedances, and while
effective, they are prone to weathering and require frequent repair. 2024
Equalization Basin Mixing Installation of mixing in the flow equalization basins will help to prevent septic conditions from occurring in the structures and improve the performance of the primary clarifiers and biological process. 2024
Recycled Water Pump Station Upgrade This project will upgrade the existing recycled water pump stations
to one larger station to feed the entire recycled water line system. 2024
Primary Clarifier
Structural
Upgrades This project will evaluate the structural integrity of existing primary
clarifiers and consider rehabilitation or replacement of structures
along with associated pumping and piping. TBD based
on outcome
of other
projects
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-16 Recycled Water Development
The City of Ventura has completed an engineering design concept study to increase
recycled water use and decrease discharge to the estuary. The design was presented in
the 2017 Report of Waste Discharge, at meetings with resources agencies in late 2018 ,
and in a 2019 Ventura Water Supply Projects Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR).
In addition to maintaining compliance with this Order, the objectives of the Ventura Water
Supply Projects include:
• Augmenting local water supply in an environmentally responsible and cost -efficient
manner .
• Providing a drought - and disaster -resilient water supply .
• Providing, maintaining, and improving ecological resources and related beneficial uses of the SCRE and its watershed.
• Improving municipal supply