A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Collection System . The collection system consists of a lift station in a low section of the City
at Shahan Drive and North Cloverdale Boulevard, which serves approximately 5 0 homes.
The lift station uses two alternating, 3 -horsepower pumps on a float system t o pump
approxi mately 10,000 gallons per day (gpd) under peak conditions. Otherwise, flow is by
gravity to the Facility. Water is received from approximately 3,000 connections. Influent
flows from two sewer lines join at a manhole at the northwestern corner of the Facility.
Inflow and i nfiltration (I&I) was historically a problem for the Facility, resulting in
significantly greater influent flows during storm events. It is estimated that 150,000 gpd
flow into the treatment system from I&I . The City completed a smoke and video testing
Order No. R1- 2018 -0034
City of Cloverdale
NPDES No. CA0022977



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
 study for I&I in 1997 and developed a program to correct the I&I problem. The Permittee
cleans its sewer system every 5 years and preventively cleans sewers with a history of
problems on an as needed basis. The Northern portion of the city was inspected using
closed -circuit television (CCTV) in 1998 and the Permittee is preparin g to inspect the
southern portion of the city when funding is available. The Permittee inspects the condition
of its gravity sewers on an 8 -year cycle. The Permittee made significant upgrades to the
older parts of the collection system to reduce I/I by sea ling and grouting 101 manholes in
2005 and 2006 and by replacing 8,900 feet of sewer main, over 2,000 feet of sewer laterals,
and 47 aging manholes between 2007 and 2009 . The peak daily flow through the Facility
during the term of Order No. R1 -2012 -0048 wa s 4.2 mgd in January 2017 , which is well
below the 8.25 mgd peak wet weather hydraulic capacity of the Facility.
2. Wastewater Treatment Facility . Influent flow is measured at the headworks with a
Parshall Flume equipped with an ultrasonic flow meter. The ultrasonic flow meter is
connected to a computer for continuous recording of inflows. The headworks has bar
screens on both influent channels and Spiral Kleen units that keep fecal matter in
suspension so that it does not get deposited into the screenings dumpster.
Raw influent entering the Facility passes through the mechanical screens to remove solids
and debris, and is then treated in a series of three ponds. Pond No. 1 is a 2.8 million gallon
primary aeration pond , equipped with a Parkson Biolac extended aeration system, including
air infusion through bubble diffusers and baffles. Pond No. 2 is a secondary aeration pond,
equipped with six mechanical surface floating aerators which can be adjusted according to
the biological oxygen demand of the wastewater. Pond No. 3 is a settling/polishing pond
which allows the suspended solids to settle to the bottom of the pond. Concrete edges
extend approximately 3 feet down the ponds, and the bottoms are composed of clay and
bentonite. Retention time in primary aerat ion is from 3 to 6 days. Each pond contains baffles
to improve flow and minimize the potential for short -circuiting.
From the settling pond, the wastewater is conveyed by gravity to the chlorination system
and into a 1,200 -foot -long , 36-inch diameter under ground pipeline, which allows for
adequate contact time for the chlorine to disinfect the wastewater. From the pipe, the
wastewater is distributed into one of seven evaporation/percolation ponds. The
evaporation ponds are unlined and are intentionally scar ified each year to promote
percolation. The Permittee uses the p ercolation ponds on a year -round basis.
The Facility does not currently have advanced wastewater treatment facilities and is not
authorized to discharge to the Russian River unless it is upgra ded to p rovide advanced
wastewater treatment .
3. Biosolids Management . Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in
the settling /polishing pond (Pond No. 3) , and are periodically dredged and dew atered, and
may be land applied or sent to a mu nicipal landfill for disposal. B iosolids were most recently
removed in November 2016 and disposed of at a properly licensed disposal facility.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee has identified a number of potential improvements to the Facility, including
installation of advanced treatment facilities and implementation of a recycled water distribution
system throughou t the middle and southern portions of the city ; however, for a variety of
reasons, the Permittee is not imminently planning to incorporate either of these upgrades to the
Facility. Flows to the Facility , whether measured as average dry weather flow or organic loading,
are less than half of the rated plant capacity, and therefore significant upgrades are not needed to
address capacity or operational issues. The Permittee’s 2015 Urban Water Management Plan
does not identify a water supply deficit that would i ndicate a need for recycle d water, and the
Order No. R1- 2018 -0034
City of Cloverdale
NPDES No. CA0022977



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
 cost of installing advanced treatment and distribution likely exceeds $25 million, based on the
2010 draft Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Preliminary Design Report. By September 1,
2018 , the City plans to install continuous chlorine residual monitoring equipment at the end of
the chlorine contact chamber.
III.