The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater collection, treatment, and
disp osal facilities that serve the unincorporated areas of Geyserville . The system is
composed of a collection system , an influent pumping station, two aeration ponds,
one settling pond, and a disinfection facility. The final effluent is discharged to two
evaporation/percolation ponds that are used alternately. The disinfection system at
the plant is being upgraded in 2019 to move from a system that uses gaseous
chlorine to one that uses sodium hypochlorite. The treatment facilities location is
shown in Attachment A and Attachment B provides a Facility flow schematic. Both
attachments are incorporated herein and made a part of this Order. Discharger Sonoma County Water Agency
Name of Facility Geyserville Sanitation Zone Wastewater Treatment
Facility
Facility Address 155 Hamilton Avenue
Geyserville, CA 95441
Sonoma County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Water Agency Coordinator 707 -523 -1070
Mailing Address 404 Aviation Boulevard, Santa Rosa, CA 95403
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow Average Dry Weather Flow (ADWF): 0.092 million
gallons per day (mgd)
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Geyserville Sanitation Zone WWTF
Order No. R1- 2019 -0013

 C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the R egional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for p rotecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which e stablished state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Geyserville Hydrologic
Suba rea of the Middle Russian River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), Freshwater Replenishment to
Surface Waters (FRSH), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native American culture (CUL) .
The beneficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Geyserville Hydrologic
Suba rea within the Middle Russian River Hydrologic Area are as follows: municipal
and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply
(IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR), freshwater
replenishment ( FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation (POW), water
contact recreation (REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2), commercial and
sport fishing (COMM), warm freshwater habitat (WARM) cold freshwater habitat
(COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE),
migration of aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early
development (SPWN), Shellfish Harvesting (SHELL), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. Water Code. Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires
each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water quality
control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial
uses and th e prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is established
through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

