DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The WWTF features a headworks, dual facultative lagoon system operated in parallel ,
and two disposal ponds. Screened effluent is discharged to one of two parallel
facultative lagoons . The Facility receives wastewater from approximately 702 residents
(2020 Census) and treats the municipal waste water generated by residences within the
service area, which is approximately 202 connections . Each lagoon is equipped with a
5-horsepower aerator , and has a total depth of 7.5 feet , including two feet of freeboard.
With operating depths of 5.5 feet, each lagoon holds a volume of 1. 8 MG. Surface area
at 5.5 feet depth is 2.3 acres . Treated effluent from the lagoons discharges to a splitter
box enabling the return of treated effluent to the lagoons , recirculation via the lift station,
or discharge to one of two disposal ponds. Each disposal pond has a total bottom area
10.6 acres, and each pond is approximately 3.9 feet deep, including two feet of
freeboard. The resulting volume for one disposal pond at the operating depth of 1.9 feet is approximately 20 acre-feet, which provides about 40 acre-feet of total storage. The
facultative lagoons are typically operated in parallel, but the splitter box design enables them to be operated in series. There are no disinfection components present at the
WWTF. A process flow diagram of the WWTF is provided as Attachment C in the NOA.
Currently, t he County does not remove sludge from the treatment ponds but proposes
to do so in the future to improve WWTF performance. One treatment pond is planned to
be taken out of service during the summer to allow accumulated sludge to dry prior to
remov al. The same process will be applied to remove the sludge from the second
treatment pond the following summer. This NOA requires the Discharger to submit a
Sludge Management Plan.
According to 2021 to 2023 self -monitoring report (SMR) data, influent flows to the
WWTF averaged approximately 40,000 gpd, much less tha n the permitted flow of
89,000 gpd. The maximum month average dail y flow observed during this timeframe
was 69,000 gpd. According to the RWD, assuming the long-term population grow th is
consistent with a County -wide trend of about one percent per year, it is anticipated that
the WWTF treatment capacity will not be exceeded for at least 20 years.
Monitoring and Reporting Program Order No. 88- 098 does not require the Discharger to
conduct influent monitoring for constituents of concern (e.g., BOD, salinity, and nitrogen); however weekly influent sample s were collected between 16 April 2023 and
1 May 2024 to obtain influent wastewater quality data. These average influent quality
results are presented in Table 1 below.
Tulare County RMA - 3 - 26 February 2025
Traver WWTF
Staff Memorandum
Table 1 - Influent Wastewater Quality

===PLANNED CHANGES===

