Golden Meadows CSD
Sacramento River as shown on Attachment A . Golden Meadows CSD has been established as
the entity responsible for the operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment system for
the Golden Meadows subdivision, Tehama county . A 6,000 gpd community system was
designed for 21 lots with individual septic tanks, a 3,000-gallo n recirculating tank w/ submersible
pumps, a 28 foot by 33 foot recirculating sand filter, a 1,000 -gallon disinfectant dosing tank, and
a 5,250 square -foot leachfield . The Facility discharges approximately 2, 000 gpd to the common
leachfield from 19 existing homes .
This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 14, section 15301 which applies to ongoing or existing projects.

FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the
terms and conditions of this NOA and the General Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5235, with all
attachments.

The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the Discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements from Table 3, for which the
Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic
Well Flowing
Stream a Ephemeral
Stream
Drainage b Property
Line Lake or
Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit,
Treatment System,
or Collection System e
150 ft. y
50 ft. C
50 ft.
5 ft. c, z
200 ft. w
Leach Field f
 100 ft. o, c 100 ft. c 50 ft. 5 ft. c 200 ft. w
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water
elevation and indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character, vegetation type,
presence of litter or debris, or other appropriate mea ns.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow -melt
and does not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface
water. The drainage shall be measured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark
(described in “a” above). Irrigation canals are not considered ephemeral streams drainage features. The
ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging surface water to groundwater ) at the proposed
wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K -1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment located
below ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
f Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
o California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site -specific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an
increased setback. See discussion in Well Standards.
w Setback established by the Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.5.
y Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.6.
z Collection system to property line setback is not applicable .

Robert & Michael Sternberg - 3 - 30 May 2017
Golden Meadows CSD
Failure to comply with the requirements in the documents could result in an enforcement action
as authorized by provision s of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than those
descr ibed in this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that
described in this NOA, you must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new
operation.

The required annual fee speci fied in the annual billing from the State Water Board shall be paid
until this NOA is officially terminated. You must notify this office in writing if the discharge
regulated by the General Order ceases, so that we may terminate coverage and avoid
unnecess ary billing.

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory
documents, MRPs, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence
should be converted to a searchable Portable Docu ment Format (PDF) and submitted
electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov .
Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a dis c and mailed to the
appropriate regional water board office, in this case 364 Knollcrest Drive, Suite 205, Redding,
CA 96002. To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following
information block should be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office:

Program: Non -15 WDID: 5A520106001
Facility Golden Meadows CSD Order: 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5235

Please note that WDRs Order No. 95-239 is proposed to be rescinded at the 10/11 August
2017 meeting of the Central Val ley Water Board. Upon rescission of your individual WDRs,
coverage for your facility under the General Order shall become applicable subject to this Notice
of Applicability.

If you have any questions regarding submitting an upda ted report of waste discharge, making
changes to your permitted operations, compliance or enforcement please contact Ron S.
Falkowski at (530) 224-3227 , rsfalkowski@waterboards.ca.gov , or the footer add ress.


Original signed by Bryan J. Smith

(for) PAMELA C. CREEDON
Executive Officer

RSF: ab

Attachments: Attachment A – Site Location Map
 Attachment B – Facility Map
 Technical Memorandum
 Monitoring and Reporting Program
 Water Quality Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ

cc (w/o enc.): Tim O’Brien, State Water Board, Sacramento
 Tehama County Environmental Health Department, Red Bluff
 Patrick Pulupa, SWRCB, Office of Chief Counsel, Sacramento
ORDER WQ-2014 -0153 -DWQ
GOLDEN MEADOWS CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
TEHAMA COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT A - LOCATION MAP

 PROJECT LOCATION N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 LOCATION MAP

GOLDEN MEADOWS CSD
WAS TEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
TEHAMA COUNTY

ORDER WQ-2014 -0153 -DWQ
GOLDEN MEADOWS CSD
WAS TEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
TEHAMA COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT B – FACILITY MAP

N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 FACILITY MAP

GOLDEN MEADOWS CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
TEHAMA COUNTY
 Dosing
Tank
Sand
Filter
Leachfield
Area MW-1
MW-2 MW-3



TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

TO: George Low, PG FROM: Ron Falkowski
 Senior Engineering Geologist Engineer ing Geologist


DATE: 30 May 2017 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski


SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR GOLDEN MEADOWS
COMMUNITY SERVICES D ISTRICT , GENERAL ORDER WQ 2014 -0153 -DWQ -
R5235 , TEHAMA COUNTY

 I have reviewed the case file for Golden Meadows Community Services District (Golden
Meadows CSD) and performed an inspection on 5 May 2017 . The file and inspection
document the general condition of the wastewater treatment and subsurface disposal
system . The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance documentation and all treatment
and collection infrastructure appears in good order.

 The average daily wastewater flow is approximately 2,000 gallons per day .

Potential Threats to Water Quality

The wastewater treatment system is located just northeast of the Hwy 36 West , Red Bluff
Tehama County . The closest distance from the leachfield to the nearest property line is
greater than 5 feet. The closest potable water well is greater th an 150 feet. The closest
surface water is greater than 500 feet from leachfield . A monitoring well network consisting
of 3 wells was installed at the site due to high groundwater and poor soil conditions.
Completion of the Nitrate Checklist in Attachment 1 of Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ indicates the
following flow and rationale:

A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow gene rally less than 2,000 gpd.
Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.

Monitoring Requirements

 To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, quarterly groundwater monitoring of well s MW-1 through MW -3 and
annual inspections of the septic tank. Quarterly monitoring will be reported by the first day of
the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. January -March report is due by May 1st).
Annual monitoring will be included with the fourth quarter monito ring.
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTRO L BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGIO N

MONITORING A ND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5235

FOR

STERNBERG ENTERPRISES INC.
AND
GOLDEN MEADOWS CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
TEHAMA COUNTY

This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater treatment system. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code section 13267. The
Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is
issued by the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board ( Central Valley Water
Board) Executive Officer.

The State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) and Regional Water Boards
are transitioning to the paperless office syste m. In some regions, Dischargers will be directed
to submit reports (both technical and monitoring reports) to the State Water Board’s Electronic
Content Management (ECM) database via email in portable document format (pdf). The email
address for the ECM su bmittal is: centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov

Water Code section 13267 states, in part:

“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require
that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or
discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any c itizen or
domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge, waste
outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters within its region shall furnish,
under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional board
requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship
to the need for the report and the benefits t o be obtained from the reports. In requiring
those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with
regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring
that person to provide the r eports.”

Water Code section 13268 states, in part:

“(a) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports as
required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a statement of
compliance as req uired by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying any information
provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in accordance with
subdivision (b).

MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5235 2
GOLDEN MEADOWS CSD, TEHAMA COUNTY



 (b)(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a regional boa rd in accordance with
article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of chapter 5 for a violation of subdivision (a) in
an amount which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which the
violation occurs.”

The Discharger owns and opera tes the wastewater system that is subject to the Notice of
Applicability (NOA) of Water Quality Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ. The reports are necessary to
ensure that the Discharger complies with the NOA and General Order. Pursuant to Water
Code section 13267, the Discharger shall implement this MRP and shall submit the monitoring
reports described herein.

All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled. The name of the sampler, sample type (grab or compo site), time, date,
location, bottle type, and any preservative used for each sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form. The chain of custody form must also contain all custody
information including date, time, and to whom samples were re linquished. If composite
samples are collected, the basis for sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by
Regional Water Board staff.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be u sed provided that they are used by a State Water Board California
Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program certified laboratory, or:

1. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are main tained and available for at least three years.
SEPTIC TANK MONITORING
Monitoring of septic tank shall include the following:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

