5. Census population data for 2010 indicates the community of Riverdale had a
population of 3,153. The RWD indicates the District currently serves 923 sewer
services, of which 864 are residential, 47 are commercial businesses, nine are
churches or libraries, and three are schools. There are no significant industrial
users.
6. The existing WWTF is an aerated lagoon system designed to remove biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS). Raw wastewater or
influent enters at the headworks where it passes through a comminutor, prior to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2018- 0028 -2-
RIVERDALE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


being discharged to an unlined complete- mix aerated lagoon. From the complete-
mix aerated lagoon, the effluent is discharged to one of six unlined oxidation
lagoons where the effluent percolates into the underlying soil/substrate and /or
evaporates.
7. Influent flows are primarily from residential users, but there are some commercial
and institutional connections. The existing Monitoring and Reporting Program
(MRP ) doesn’t require influent monitoring, but the Discharg er analyzed the influent
for a select list of constituents on two consecutive days in May 2016 as summarized
in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes to the WWTF and Discharge
14. The treatment capacity of the upgraded WWTF will be 0.325 mgd. The RWD
estimates growth over the next 20 years and proposes increasing the disposal
capacity in two phases. The first phase would increase disposal capacity to
0.275 mgd and the second phase would increase the disposal capacity to
0.325 mgd in about ten years. The actual percolation capacity of the proposed
effluent storage p onds will be evaluated and may require the need for additiona l
effluent storage ponds to achieve the 0.325 mgd disposal capacity of Phase 2. This
Order includes Provis ions G.12 and G.13 that requires the District submit technical
reports that demonstrate the upgrades to the WWTF have been completed as
designed. To accommodate the proposed upgrade/expansion of the WWTF, the
District has purchased a 40-acre parcel (APN 053- 090-36), which is west and
directly adjacent the existing WWTF as shown on Attachment B, which is attached
hereto and made part of this Order by reference. Due to the presence of a remnant
of the Van Ness Slough, o f the 40 acres that comprise the new l and, about 33 acres
is available for use.
15. All of the wastewater generated by the community of Riverdale passes through a
recently constructed lift station that is just north of the intersection of Valentine
Avenue and Stathem Street . The new lift station includes two new lift pumps
capable of providing flows up to 420 gallons per minute each, with room for the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2018- 0028 -5-
RIVERDALE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


installation of a third pump . The existing force main is a 10- inch main installed in
1958 and constructed of asbestos pipe. Its condition is unknown and it will be
replaced with an 8-inch or 10- inch force main constructed of either polyvinyl
chloride or high density polyethylene pipe.
16. A new headworks will be constructed and designed based on the estimated flows of
0.325 mgd. It will have a self-cleaning screen and a bypass channel with a manual
bar screen. A new influent flow meter will be installed to measure the volume
discharged to the WWTF.
17. The new treatment system will consist of three, high -density polyethylene single -
wall lined aerat ion ponds (one complete mix pond and two partial mix ponds). All
three ponds will be active and operated in series. All of the ponds will be equipped
with aerators, the complete mix pond will have a surface area of about 0.3 of an
acre and will have a ca pacity of about 0.8 million gallons. The partial mix ponds will
have a surface area of about 1- acre and a capacity of about 2.4 million gallons .
18. Effluent will be discharged to a series of new disposal (evaporation/percolation)
ponds installed in two phases. Some of the existing treatment ponds will be
converted to disposal ponds. The first phase will allow for the disposal of up to
0.275 mgd ( current flow is 76 percent of the first phase) and will include the
construction of approximately 23.4 acres of n ew disposal (evaporation/percolation)
ponds. This will increase the total volume of the disposal ponds to about 96 acre-
feet (31. 3 million gallons). Phase 2 will allow for the disposal of up to 0.325 mgd
(current flow is 64 percent of the second phase) and w ill provide another 3.4 acres
of disposal ponds and increase the total volume of the disposal ponds to about
104 acre-feet (34.1 million gallons) . The recycling of effluent to the former land
application areas will be discontinued due to the standing water issues and that the
Discharger could not find any nearby farmers that wanted to use the effluent for
irrigation on their land as discussed in Fi nding 5 4.
19. The RWD estimates the quality of the effluent that will be produced by the new
WWTF and those values are summarized in the table below.
Table 4 – Estimated Effluent Quality