2.1.1. Collection System
The Forestville collection system is comprised of two interconnected areas: Forestville Central and Mirabel Heights. The Forestville Central portion of the collection system is entirely gravity flow and consists of 6.5 miles of 6- and 8-
inch pipe that was slip -lined with plastic lining between the late 1970’s and
early 1980’s.
The Mirabel Heights portion consists of predominantly 6- inch PVC pipe with
a small percentage of 8” PVC pipe and is serviced by two lift stations. Terminal Lift Station is located at the intersection of River and Mirabel Roads and has two submersible pumps , one 5 horsepower (HP) and one 10HP.
The lift station pumps wastewater through a 4- inch force main that extends
1,533 feet to a manhole located on Trenton Road, then flows by gravity to
the second lift station known as Intermediate Lift Station. Terminal Lift Station services most of Mirabel Heights’ gravity sewer collection system. In addition, Steelhead Beach County Park maintains its own lift station that pumps wastewater to the gravity portion of the River Road 8- inch gravity
main. Intermediate Lift Station is located on Trenton Road near the terminus of Covey Road and receives wastewater from Terminal Lift Station and a small portion of the gravity sewer system. Intermediate Lift Station has two
23HP high speed/high head pumps and pumps wastewater thro ugh 6,099
feet of 6 -inch DI force main under Covey Road to the gravity sewer main at
Van Keppel Road. Wastewater is pumped vertically approximately 220 feet
at its highest point in the collection system .
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment
The treatment system consists of a headworks, an aeration pond (also known as the South Pond), a settling pond (also known as the North Pond), microfiltration, chlorine disinfection with sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite . Treated wastewater is discharged to an
approximately 3.25- million -gallon effluent storage pond used for storage of
advanced treated wastewater prior to discharge to Jones Creek or the recycled water system.
The headworks include a rotary hydroscreen system, a screenings washer,
and a metering flume. Influent flows from a 12 -inch pipeline to the rotary
hydroscreen system. After solids removal, influent flows through a 3- inch

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 Order No. R1-2024-0004
Forestville Water District
 Parshall flume for flow measurement. The cleaned and dewatered solids are
disposed of at a landfill.
Wastewater from the headworks flows by gravity to the east end of the aeration pond. The pond has a volumetric capacity of 2.93 million gallons, and is divided into three baffled cells to reduce short -circuiting. The first cell
contains two 7.5- horsepower aerators that run continuously, the second cell
contains one 5- horsepower aerator that also runs continuously, and the third
cell contains a 3- horsepower aerator, set on a timer, to create aerobic and
anoxic conditions within the pond. Based on the average dry weather
treatment capacity, the theoretical detention time in the pond is 24.8 days. Wastewater flows from cell to cell and exists from the westernmost cell into the settling pond.
The settling pond (also know n as the North Pond) is used for storage during
high flows and for filter backwashes. The settling pond has a total volume of 0.75 million gallons. Wastewater from the settling pond is recirculated to the aeration pond as necessary.
Wastewater from the aeration pond is pumped to the filtration system. To maintain cleanliness in the filters, the secondary effluent is pre- chlorinated
using sodium hypochlorite prior to filtration. Tertiary treatment is achieved in the microfiltration sys tem. The microfiltration system consists of two
treatment trains each with a holding tank, strainer, and three banks of 12 microza microfiltration modules (water flows from the outside- in). The
microfiltration building has been designed to accommodate a third treatment train if necessary. The microfiltration system is operated in accordance with
the manufacturer’s operations manual and State Water Resources Control
Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking Water (DDW) requirements.
Where the manufacturer’s recommendations are less stringent than DDW
requirements, DDW requirements take precedence.
From the microfiltration system, filtered wastewater flows to the chlorine contact tank by gravity through an 8- inch pipeline. A chlorine gas system
was replaced with a sodium hypochlorite system in May 2014. Sodium hypochlorite is injected into the 8- inch influent line prior to entering the
chlorine contact tank using an injection quill assembly. Sodium hypochlorite is stored in a 540-gallon tank and is conveyed to the injection point through a
1-inch line by a pair of peristaltic pumps. Two peristaltic pumps are utilized
each with a rated application rate of 100 gallons per day. The dosing of
sodium hypochlorite is a set rate and is not flow - or demand- paced. The
chemical pump rate is manually adjusted based on the chlorine residual or the filter process flow rate.
Chlorinated effluent then flows into one of two baffled concrete chambers. A chlorine contact tank tracer study conducted in August 2005 demonstrated that the contact time is 105 minutes at the peak weekly treatment plant

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 Order No. R1-2024-0004
Forestville Water District
 design flow of 0.576 mgd, and that a final chlorine residual of 4.3 mg/L is
needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg- min/L at peak weekly design
flow. The study also demonstrated that when the filter flow exceeds 0.576 mgd, up to the peak wet weather daily design flow of 0.780 mgd, a final chlorine residual of 5.3 mg/L is needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L. After flowing through the chlorine contact tank, before discharge to the effluent storage pond, the chlorinated effluent is dechlorinated using sodium bisulfite .
After treatment, the advanced treated effluent is discharged to an on -site
effluent storage pond prior to discharge to the recycled water system or the
surface water discharge system. The maximum capacity of the existing on-site storage pond is 3.25 million gallons. Additional on- site storage capacity
may also be available within the treatment ponds during low flow periods. The storage ponds allow the amount of discharge to be controlled to protect beneficial uses of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
2.5.1. The Permittee plans to reduce inflow and infiltration (I/I) into the collection
system by replacing or lining targeted portions of the collection system.
2.5.2. The Permittee plans to conduct an Ammonia and Nitrate Study Work Plan and continue following the compliance schedule outlined in Time
Schedule Order R1- 2018- 0037 including implementing any necessary
operational modifications to comply with the ammonia and nitrate