1. Collection System

The Permittee’s wastewater collection system consists of 92 miles of public branch
and trunk sewers, one mile of private branch sewers, 1,700 manholes, 750 cleanouts, and approximately 6,100 private service laterals. There are two siphons, located at Los Amigos and Rio Ruso . Ninety percent of the flows reach the treatment
plant by gravity. The Permittee also owns and operates two lift stations at Vintage Greens and Shiloh Greens.

The Permittee’s current I/I program includes regular inspection and maintenance of its sewer system. The Permitte e repairs sewers with root damage and opened joints
and is installing sewer guards under manhole lids.

The Permittee has also developed and implement s a collection system operation
and maintenance (O&M) program that includes: 1) an up- to-date collection s ystem
map; 2) routine preventative O&M activities, including collection system preventative
maintenance and cleaning, and a database to record and track all activities; 3) prioritized deficiency list and rehabilitation activities, including regular visual and TV inspections of manholes and sewer pipes, ranking of the condition of sewer pipes, scheduling rehabilitation for problem areas, and a capital improvement plan; 4) training for operations and maintenance staff, and contractors; 5) equipment and
replac ement parts inventories to support its preventative maintenance program; and
6) development of a Fats, Oils, and Grease (FOG) Control Program, including a grease trap ordinance and a residential FOG program.

2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
 The current Facility provides advanced wastewater treatment (AWT) and has design capacities of 2.25 mgd as an average dry weather flow (ADWF) and 7.2 mgd as a
peak weekly wet weather flow. The wastewater treatment facilities include biological
secondary treatment utilizing extended air activated sludge aeration basins and secondary clarifiers; AWT that includes chemical addition facilities, flocculation tanks, AWT clarifiers, and sand filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; and storage prior to water recycling, discharge to the Geysers recharge pipeline, and/or discharge to
Order No. R1 -2020- 0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
 Mark West Creek. A portion of the treated and UV disinfected effluent is chlorinated and transferred to Windsor High School for toilet flushing and landscape irrig ation.

3. Effluent Storage

Advanced treated, UV disinfected effluent is discharged to effluent storage ponds
prior to distribution to the water reclamation system or to Mark West Creek. The Permittee owns and operates six tertiary effluent storage ponds that provide 143.8 million ga llons of storage capacity and two additional ponds that provide an added
20.2 million gallons of high flow storage volume when influent flows exceed the treatment capacity of the treatment plant. This combined storage volume of 164 million gallon is designed to handle an ADWF of up to 1.9 mgd.

During the term of this permit, the Permittee plans to develop and implement a Joint
Use Program with the Airport -Larkfield- Wikiup Sanitation Zone (ALWSZ)
Wastewater Treatment Facility , which is operated by the Sonoma County Water
Agency, and the City of Santa Rosa. See section II.E of this Fact Sheet for additional information.

The effluent storage ponds are not part of the treatment system and therefore, Technology Based E ffluent Limitations contained in the Order are applicable at the
point of completion of treatment and disinfection. The effluent storage ponds allow the Permittee to balance influent flows with recycled water demand and its ability to discharge to

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes during the permit term:

1. Implement a Water Reclamation Facility (WRF) Influent Wet Well Screen Project to
add a new influent wet well screen upstream of the influent pumps and replace the existing headworks grit classifier.

2. Replacement or rehabilitation of the existing headworks screen and washer -
compactor in 2022.

3. Rehabilitation and replacement of the existing aeration basin equipment in 2020.

The Permittee is also planning to develop and implement a Joint Use Program with the ALWSZ, Sonoma County Water Agency, and City of Santa Rosa to enable transfer of
effluent and reuse and distribution of recycled water from the tertiary storage ponds
Order No. R1 -2020- 0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11
 owned by the agencies to maximize recycling and minimize surface water discharges. The transfers of disinfected tertiary recycled water may occur between the Permittee and ALWSZ, Sonom a Count y Water Agency, and/or City of Santa Rosa’s tertiary
storage ponds and the Permittee’s recycled water distribution system. This Order requires the Permittee to submit a report to the Regional Water Board Executiv e Officer
for approval that must include the final design details and operational modifications required for implementation of the Joint Use Program . The report includes
documentation of California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) compliance, recycled wate r transfer and use agreements, and an operations and management plan that
identifies measures that will be implemented to ensure that recycled water transferred from the ALWSZ and City of Santa Rosa storage ponds will not be discharged to surface waters. The Joint Use Program will be effective after the Regional Water Board Executive Officer provides written approval.
 III.