Russian River Wastewater Treatment Facility NPDES NO. CA0024058
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6(e.g., campgrounds, trailer parks) to shut off connection points during flood
events. The Permittee received a grant fro m the State Water Board to
impleme nt a project to assess the condition of the headworks and aging lift
stations, and to prioritize necessary rehabilitation and/or replacement of its
aging infrastructure. The assessment work is expected to begin in late 202 1
and to be completed sometime in 2022 , followed by initial designs and
environmental p ermitting for identified projects in 2023 . The Permittee
anticipates applying to the State Water Board in 2024 for construction grant
funding to rehabilitate and/or replace aging infrastructure.
This Ord er requires the Permittee to continue to work on its I&I reduction
program, conduct an engineering evaluation of the collection system and how it
interacts with the treatment plant during flood conditions, and to develop a
written plan that describes an im plementation plan to notify the public when
there are SSOs or unauthorized discharges from the collection system or the
treatment plant.
Regional and State Water Board staff conducted an inspect ion of the collection
system on December 6, 2019 and are worki ng with the Permittee to develop a
plan and funding t o address deficiencies in order to reduce spills as further
discussed in Fact Sheet section 6.3. 6.2.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Facili ty is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.71 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 3.5 mgd of disinfect ed tertiary treated wastewater.
The treatment system consists of coarse screening and aerated grit removal,
aeration, biological nutrient rem oval (BNR), secondary clarification, tertiary
filtratio n, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
The headworks co nsists of two screens with 0.25 -inch mesh for solids removal,
one Parshall flume for flow measurement, and an 8,560 gallon aerated grit
remov al basin. The design flow capacity of the headworks scr een system is 5.5
mgd.
Two of three aeration basins are ope rated in parallel and complete mix modes.
Wastewater moves by gravity from the headworks, combines with return
activated sludge, and is routed into a split structure. The mixed liquor is split by
weirs and runs into the two aeration basins through 12 -inch pipelines. The
combined volume of the two aeration basins is 0.8 million gallons.
In 2014, the Permittee completed the Biological Nutrient Removal project in the
activated sludge facilities. The BNR process utilizes act ivated sludge biomass
for nitrificat ion, denitrification, and enhanced biological phosphorus removal in
two BNR units. The activated sludge process is followed by clarification where
Russian River County Sanitation District June 17, 2021
and Sonoma Water OrderR1-2021 -0002
Russian River Wastewater Treatment Facility NPDES NO. CA0024058
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7solids biomass and liquids are separated by sedim entation. Three clarifie rs are
utilized to remove solids fro m the mixed liquor suspension and produce a clear
effluent. The combined flow of all three clarifiers is 3.5 mgd.
Clarified secondary effluent flows by gravity to the tertiary filters and UV
disinfection system. Two tert iary filters operate (with one in se rvice and one on
standby) under a vacuum and use cloth media disk filtration technology
featuring PA -13 nylon pile fabric. The capacity of each filter is 3.7 mgd, for a
total of 7.4 mgd filtration capacity.
Disinfection is accomplished with a UV disinfecti on system capable of
disinfecting flows up to 3.7 mgd. The infrastructure of the previous chlorine
disinfection system, replaced by the UV disinfection system in October 2012,
remains available fo r emergencies.
2.1.3. Effluent Storage
Tertiary treated effluent no t meeting permit limits for turbidity or UV
transmittance is automatically diverted to a 1 million gallon Emergency Holding
Pond for retreatment. Fully treated effluent is placed in a 3.5 m illion gallon
Effluent Storage Pond (or Holding Pond) prior to disc harge to the Russian River
or to the recycled water/land disposal system. During discharge to the Russian
River, a control valve is used to adjust the flow from the Effluent Storage Pond
through the Russian River Outfall line. The bottom of the effluent st orage pond
is at 39.0 feet elevation, while 0 feet of freeboard is at 57.0 feet elevation. To
protect the pond from failure, an emergency overflow is set at 56.0 feet
elevation. The effluen t storage pond overflow pipe co nnects with the Russian
River Outfal l line after the control valve, but prior to the Russian River Outfall
meter.
During periods of high influent flow, influent can be diverted to the 1 million
gallon Emergency Holding Pond, or to the third aeration basin, which provides
additional storage c apacity of 0.4 million gallons during high flow events.
2.1.4. Recycled Water and Land Disposal
From May 15 through September 30, when discharges to the Russian River are
prohibited, disinf ected tertiary recycled water is used for irrigation of the
Northwood Golf Course, located south of the Facility and on the opposite side
of the Russian River. An average of 0.086 mgd is applied to an area of 43 acres
during the irrigation season.
Treated wastewater not used by the Northwood Golf Course is disposed of
through l and disposal thorough spray irrigation on the upper and lower areas of
the Burch property; 17 acres of wooded property adjacent to the Facility. During
Russian River County Sanitation District June 17, 2021
and Sonoma Water OrderR1-2021 -0002
Russian River Wastewater Treatment Facility NPDES NO. CA0024058
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8the irrigation season approxim ately 0.103 mgd is applied to the prop erty. This
Order requires the Permit tee to manage effluent irrigation on this land disposal
area to minimize ponding, prevent runoff, and to protect groundwater.
Disinfected tertiary recycled water is also used for du st control on Facility roads
and fire suppression at the Facility.
2.1.5. Biosoli ds Management
The majority of the biosolids generated during the treatment process are
transferred back to the aeration basins as return activated sludge (RAS).
The remainder of the biosolids is dewatered by belt press to 15 percent solids
or greater and transported to a municipal landfill by a contractor.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Over the current permit term, many projects have been completed as part of
ongoing maintenance and improvements. The most significant projects completed
at the WWTF include installing the BNR system; rehab ilitating one tertiary filter
and replacing the sec ond tertiary filter; upgrading the grit pumps; replacing the
“redwood” control tank; installing flow metering prior to the tertiary filters; installing
flow metering on the filter backwash; replacing the d iesel day tank for the
emergency generator; replaci ng the spiral rag washers at the headworks;
replacing the main e lectrical circuit breaker; replacing the polymer injection for the
sludge belt press and replacing the upper irrigation motor control center and
pumps.
Projects that the Permittee anticipates completing during the term of this Order
include installing an influent flow magmeter; clarifier seismic retrofit, replacing the
waste activated sludge (WAS) pumps, replacing the effluent pumps and instal ling
a magmeter on the mixed liquor pipeline, and i mproving the sludge and grit
loading area. The Permittee also ha s long -term capital improvement plan (CIP)
projects that are anticipated to take more than five years to complete, including
headworks and lift station improvements, collection system improvem ents, and
force main replacement as further discussed in Fact Sh eet section 2.1.1 . The
initiation and timing of these projects is contingent on available funding.
No other modifications or operational chan ges that will cause a material change in
the volume or quality of discharges from the Facility have been identified for the
term of this Order.
3.