The City of Yreka (hereinafter Discharger) owns and operates facilities for the
collection, treatment and d isposal of municipal wastewater from the city of Yreka.
These facilities consist of a collection system, pumping stations, screening,
activated sludge secondary treatment, aerobic sludge digestion, clarification,
filtration and disinfection by chlorination. The wastewater treatment facility
(Facility) was originally constructe d in 1972 and is located at the north end of the
City, as shown on Attachments A, B and C, incorporated herein and made part of
this Order. Treated and disinfected effluent is pumped to four percolation ponds
and to approximately 22.4-acre subsurface drip disposal field s located north of the
Facility and adjacent to Yreka Creek . Treated effluent flows under approximately
1.0 mgd discharge to the subsurface drip disposal fields; treated effluent flows
over 1.0 mgd discharge to both the subsurface drip disp osal fields and the
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
City of Yreka CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2021-0016
percolation ponds. The four percolation ponds are used primarily during high flow
periods to accommodate larger effluent flows, while the subsurface drip disposal
fields are used primarily during summertime low flow periods. The subsu rface drip
disposal fields were designed to accommodate up to 1.3 mgd of treated effluent
disposal. Aerobically digested sludge is pumped to a centrifuge for mechanical
dewatering and final disposal at a permitted landfill.
The Facility has a design avera ge dry weather flow (ADWF) of 1.0 mgd and a
design peak wet weather flow (PWWF) of 6.8 mgd. The Discharger submitted a
complete Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on March 30, 2018. Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. R1 -2003 -0047, adopted by the
Regional Water Board on May 15, 2003, are currently in effect for the Facility.
Norcal Products is a categorical industrial user (CIU) connected to the
Discharger’s wastewater collection system . Section VIII General Provisions F
requires t he Discharge r is to develop a pretreatment program to regulate this CIU
and other industrial users in accordance with National Pretreatment Requirements
as set forth in Section 40, Part 403 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a map of the Facility and the City of Yreka service area . Attachment C
provides a design Facility layout. Attachment D provides a Facility flow schematic.
Attachment E is the Monitoring and Reporting Prog ram.
Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs for discharges to land issued pursuant to section
13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code).
C. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin
Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required fo r that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implem ents State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
The Basin Pl an identifies beneficial uses for each hydrologic area in the Region,
as well as for specific waterbodies and broad categories of waters. Protection will
be afforded to the present and potential beneficial uses of waters of the North
Waste Discharge Requirements - 4 -
City of Yreka CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2021-0016
Coast Region as design ated and presented in Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan. The
beneficial uses of any specifically identified water body generally apply to all its
tributaries. Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Shasta
Valley Hydrologic Area to be p rotected are as follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural water supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Aquaculture
f. Native American Culture
Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan identifies the following existing and potential
benefi cial uses of surface waters in the Shasta Valley Hydrologic Area are as
follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Groundwater recharge
f. Freshwater replenishment
g. Navigation
h. Hydropower gen eration
i. Water contact recreation
j. Non-contact water recreation
k. Commercial and sport fishing
l. Warm freshwater habitat
m. Cold freshwater habitat
n. Wildlife habitat
o. Rare, threatened, or endangered species
p. Migration of aquatic organisms
q. Spawning, reproduction, and/or early development
r. Aquaculture
s. Wetland Habitat
t. Water Quality Enhancement
u. Flood Peak Attenuation/ Flood Water Storage
v. Native American Cultural Use
w. Subsistence Fishing
D. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241
Waste Discharge Requirements - 5 -
City of Yreka CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2021-0016
requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water
quali ty control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is
established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

