Disposal Facilities which permitted the Sea Ranch North plant for secondary
treatment, followed by disinfection, and storage and provided for transferring the
disinfected secondary effluent to the Gualala CSD WWTF for tertiary t reatment,
disinfection, and storage and subsequent reclamation at The Sea Ranch Golf
Links. In addition, Order No. 92 -121 for the Gualala Community Services District
and Sea Ranch Village Incorporated Sea Ranch Golf Links was adopted
concurrently with Orde r No. 92 -120 to permit the use of recycled water at The Sea
Ranch Golf Links. Order No. 92 -120 is being rescinded through this Order while
Order Nos. 92 -121 and 94 -004 are being rescinded as part of a multi -party WDR
rescission order, Order No. R1 -2022 -0003, Rescinding Waste Discharge
Requirements Orders and Associated Monitoring and Reporting Programs that is
scheduled for adoption by the Regional Water Board concurrently with this Order.
Each connection to the Gualala collection system includes a (Septic Tank Effluent
Pumping) STEP process, which consists of a septic tank to pre ‐treat the
wastewater and a submersible, low ‐horsepower sump pump which discharges the
wastewater to the collection system. The collection system serves GCSD sewer
zones 1 and 2, which comprises roughly one ‐third of the District boundary area .
The STEP system consists of 34,600 feet of gravity and 27,900 feet of pressurized
mains ranging in diameter from 2 to 6 inches, interceptor tanks , and three lift
stations. The service area comprises both residential and commercial uses
(restaurants, supermarkets , laundromat, and several sm all businesses ), and
consists of approximately 415 EDUs (equivalent dwelling units).
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
Waste Discharge Requirements 5At the terminus of the collection system a fourth lift station , Lift Station #4 , pumps
the wastewater through a 6 ‐inch diameter force main to the WWTF.
Sea Ranch North wastewater flows are generated from 500 connected parcels.
The collection system consists of 14 miles of gravity mains which terminate at the
Sea Ranch North WWTF at the north end of the community of The Sea Ranch .
Wastewater from the Sea Ranch North commu nity is treated to a primary level
(screening and aeration) prior to being pump ed through a one mile force main to
the Gualala CSD WWTF where it is comingled with wastewater from the
community of Gualala prior to treatment.
The Gualala CSD and Sea Ranch No rth collection systems , including the
temporary storage of wastewater at the Sea Ranch North influent pond are
enrolled separately under State Water Resources Control Board Order No. 2006 -
0003 -DWQ, Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer
Systems .
The Discharger’s wastewater treatment system includes two aerated ponds and
two clarifiers for secondary treatment, a travelling bridge and fine screen filter for
tertiary treatment, and a chlorine contact chamber for disinfection. The Facility is
designed as an extended aeration act ivated sludge plant.
The Facility also includes four effluent storage ponds with a combined capacity of
28.4 million gallons. Three of the ponds, totaling 20 million gallons of capacity, are
located adjacent to the Gualala WWTF. The three ponds adjacent to the Gualala
WWTF were designed with subdrain systems that can be monitored to determine
if there is leakage from the ponds. The fourth pond, with a capacity of 8.4 million
gallons, is located at the Sea Ranch North WWTF site. The recycled water from all
four effluent storage ponds is delivered to the 80 acre golf course, The Sea Ranch
Golf Links , through an 8 -inch diameter pipeline for irrigation of turf grass within the
fairways, tee boxes, and greens .
The Discharger ’s November 2021 Title 22 Engineering Report addresses recycled
water production and storage, as well as distribution , and use on The Sea Ranch
Golf Links . Thus, t his Order includes water recycling requirements that apply to
the production , storage, distribution , and use of tertiary recycled wate r.
The ROWD includes an analysis of recycled water capacity, noting that storage
pond capacity is inadequate during periods of above average precipitation. The
Discharger is concerned that the cost of constructing additional recyc led water
storage to address extreme wet weather conditions is not an effective use of its
limited financial resources.
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
Waste Discharge Requirements 6Gualala’s median household income (MHI) of $56,6481is less than 80 percent of
the California MHI , which qualifies the area as a disad vantaged community per the
State Water Board Division of Financial Assistance (DFA) criteria. Therefore, t he
Discharger has focused its efforts and limited resources on addressing inflow and
infiltration issues in its collection system. The Discharger ha s requested that this
Order provide allowance for use of the approximately 2 MG percolation pond at
The Sea Ranch Golf Links during periods of above average precipitation when the
storage ponds are filling to capacity . According to the ROWD, the percolatio n pond
has the capacity to percolate up to 600,000 gallons per day. This percolation pond
has been used for disposal of disinfected tertiary effluent in recent years when all
storage ponds have filled during periods of extreme wet weather and effluent and
groundwater monitoring data showed that limited use of the percolation pond for
effluent disposal has not resulted in impacts to groundwater . Therefore, t his Order
includes requirements for temporary use of the percolation pond under spec ific
conditions identified in section IV.E of this Order .
Solids generated during the treatment process are dried in bermed, unlined drying
beds , then hauled to Fairfield, CA for further processing at the Lystek biosolids
processing facility located adjace nt to the Fairfield -Suisun Sewer District WWTF.
The Discharger developed a Biosolids Management Plan that describes plans to
utilize dewatering bags placed on paved drying beds with a center drain system
that returns the permeable liquids from the bags bac k to the aeration basin via an
existing decant return pump station. The bags will be cut open and the contents
dried on uncovered paved beds during the summer months for subsequent
hauling by a private contractor to a designated landfill.
Attachment A prov ides a vicinity map showing the location of the Facility , Sea
Ranch North WWTF, storage ponds, and The Sea Ranch Golf Links. Attachment
B provides a Facility flow schematic. Attachment C provides a map of the
percolation pond and groundwater monitoring wel ls at The Sea Ranch Golf Links.
C. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article
4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with section 13260) of the California Water
Code (Water Code) and Master Recycling Permit pursuant to article 4, chapter 4,
division 7 (commencing with section 13500) of the Water Code.
1 MHI derived from 2018 community block group no .60460111023 .
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
Waste Discharge Requirements 7D. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North C oast Region (Basin
Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting all waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Gualala River
Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), and
industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native American
culture (CUL) .
E. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241
requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water
quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is
established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

