2.1.1. Collection System
The wastewater collection system in the City of Ukiah and UVSD consists of
approximately 67 miles of pipelines that are 6 -inches in diameter or larger. A
trunk sewer that ranges in size from 15 to 42 inches in diameter extends
northward from the Facility f or a distance of 6 miles. The majority of the sewers
are gravity collection lines. There are no bypass or overflow structures in the
system.
Three lift stations from El Dorado Estates, Ford Street, and Vichy Springs
discharge to force mains that cross under the Russian River. Each lift station
has a bypass pipe around the pumps that allows the system to flow by gravity
(via a siphoning effect), and prevent lift station overflows.
Leachate from the City of Ukiah’s municipal landfill is discharged to the Facility.
Leachate is clarified in a sedimentation basin at the landfill and subsequently
stored in above -ground tanks prior to being pumped to the sewer line. The
leachate is analyz ed on a quarterly basis for pollutants of concern, including
total dissolved solids, nutrients, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD 5), volatile
organic compounds and petroleum hydrocarbons. Monitoring results
demonstrate that the leachate does not contain any p ollutants that could cause
upset conditions at the Facility. Volumes of leachate discharged to the Facility
vary from month to month and may be mixed with rainwater in the winter .
Leachate discharges occur primarily during wet weather months.
The flow from commercial and business facilities is approximately 28 percent of
the total plant inflow. Commercial and business facilities served by the Facility
include restaurants, hotels, car washes, automotive mechanics, car dealerships,
hospitals, den tal offices, photo processors, and other typical small city
businesses. The remaining 72 percent of flow is considered residential flow. The
Permittee had a large industrial user, Mendocino Brewing Company, which was
CITY OF UKIAH ORDER NO. R1-2024 -0016
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0022 888
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 required to pretreat its wastewater to lower the BOD 5 and total suspended solids
(TSS) and monitor BOD 5 and TSS prior to discharging to the Facility. The
brewery closed in 2017, but could reopen in the future. The Permittee does not
accept flow from septage, chemical toilets, or other bulk waste sources.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 3.01 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 24.5 mgd of secondary treated wastewater, as well as
a peak wet weather flow of 7.0 mgd of advanced treated wastewater. The
Facility’s secondary treatment train consists of an influent wet well, bar screens,
aerated grit removal, primary clarifiers, trickling filters, aerated solids contact
tank, secondary clarifiers, and a chlorine contactor pipe where secondary
disinfection is performed using sod ium hy pochlorite. The Facility’s advanced
treatment train includes the addition of ferric chloride and polymer to adsorption
clarifiers and multi -media filters.
Advanced treated effluent is disinfected with sodium hypochlorite in the tertiary
chlorine contact basin and sent to the Recycled Water Storage Ponds for
distribution to recycled water users. When there is insufficient capacity in the
Recycled Water Storage Ponds, secondary effluent is disinfected with sodium
hypochlorite in the secondary chlori ne contact basin and sent to the percolation
ponds for disposal. If there is insufficient capacity in the recycled water storage
ponds or the percolation ponds durin g the allowable discharge season (October
1 through May 14), the advanced treated effluent is dechlorinated with sodium
bisulfite and discharged to the Russian River.
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected tertiary recycled water. The Facility has
three recycled water storage ponds with synthetic liners to provide storage for
the disinfected tertiary treated recycled water and deliver s it to authorized
recycled water users. Recycled water is delivered by a recycled water pump
station and transmission system to a recycled water fill station and metered
customers. Delivery of recycled water to users began in July 2019.
This Order includes requirements for the production of recycled water at the
Facility. The use of recycled water from the Facility is covered separately under
State Water Resources Control Board Order No. WQ 2016 -0068 -DWQ, General
Waste Discharge Requireme nts for Recycled Water Use (Recycled Water
General Order), and any subsequent revision thereof.
2.1.4. Biosolids Management
Biosolids generated during the treatment process are reduced through
thickening in dissolved air flotation units followed by stabilization using
anaerobic digesters (mesothermic). Digested sludge is dewatered using a belt -
filter press. During the term of this permit, the belt -filter press is anticipated to be
CITY OF UKIAH ORDER NO. R1-2024 -0016
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0022 888
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 replaced with a FKC Screw Press that can operate continuously (through
SCADA) that will reduce the pollutant loading of the pressate returned to the
headworks after biosolids treatment.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the term of this Order, the Permittee anticipates completing constructing of
the Phase 4 projects related to their recycled water system This project will include
the installation of online analyzers and automatic actuation valves and expand the
recycled water distribution system for users west of Highway 101 and further
reduce effluent discharges to the Russian River. Additionally, this project will add a
Production Augmentation Unit to the treatment system that will allow the Permittee
to increase production flows during periods of low influent flow to provide recycled
water for landscape irrigation, agricultural irrigation, and frost protection .
Other planned changes to the Facility include SCADA/PLC upgrades to improve
communication and reliability of the Facility’s control system . This upgrade will
also allow for remote viewing of WWTP data and better protection against cyber
threats. Additional planned changes include the replacement of the belt f ilter p ress
with a FKC Screw Press , installation of a new Suspended Air Floatation (SAF)
system for solids treatment , and installation of a septage receiving station .
3.