Grade 3, License Number 41116 .

In the notice of intent, California American Water proposes that the Wastewater Syst em
is designed to treat and dispose of 125,000 gallons per day to a secondary treatment
level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies shown in Table 2.
The Central Coast Water Board is permitting the operation and disposal of the system as described below. California American Water must not change operation or disposal
technology without Central Coast Water Board notification and review.

Table 2. Treat ment Technology
Headworks/Preliminary Treatment The headworks consist of one lift station. The station do es
not have any influent screening. Manual maintenance is performed to remove large debris from the suction side of influent pumps.
Primary and
Secondary Treatment Conventional treatment ponds are used . The main
treatment pond (Pond 2) is 8-acres wide and 7 feet deep
equipped with two floating aerators. The water from the main treatment pond then flows to Pond 1, a 0.4 -acre wide
and 7 feet dee p pond before disposal. The ponds are not
synthetically lined. Wastewater flows from Pond 2 to Pond 3 via gravity. Ponds provide both primary and biological
treatment.
Wastewater Disposal Method From Pond 1, w astewater is land disposed via spray fields
with a total area of approximently 15 acres. Currently, only
half of the area is used.
Wastewater Storage Pond 3 is an unlined emergency overflow storage pond.
Any wastewater that flows in pond 3 stays in pond 3.
Biosolids/Sludge Production and Handling Solid s are accumulated in the treatment pond s and are
only removed by dredging and then disposed at a nearby municipal landfill facility when needed. There has been no disposal from the pond during California American Water’s
ownership .
The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is Monterey
Regional Waste Management District - Landfill Facility
located at 14201 Del Monte Blvd , Marina, CA
 A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3, which were reported in California American Water ’s annual monitoring reports. A
summary of historic and recent average groundwater concentrations is included in
California American Water May 4 , 2023
Oak Hills Wastewater Treatment Plant

- 3 -
 Table 4, which were reported in California American Water annual monitoring reports.
The Central Coast Water Board used reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

