Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment Influent wastewater enters the treatment plant where flows
are measured through a magnetic flow meter . The flow
meter records the instantaneous and totalized flow. A flow -
based composite sampler captures influent samples for operation and reporting. Trash and debris is removed by a perforated drum screen, which overflows to a manual
screen/trash rack if it becomes clogge d. Next, a
mechanical vortex removes grit. Trash and grit are
directed to trash bins by screw conveyors.
Headworks capacity (gpd): 1,430,000
Primary Treatment From the Headworks screens, wastewater flows directly
into the sequencing batch reactor ( SBR) basins without
any prior sedimentation basins.
Secondary Treatment SBR technology is used for secondary treatment. Each of
the two 320,000 gallon basins alternate between aerobic and anaerobic conditions for nitrogen removal. The design
hydraulic retention time for an average flow rate of
350,000 gpd is 43.8 hours.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 350,000
Wastewater Disposal Method Treated effluent is disposed of through onsite percolation
ponds. Disposal is rotated between the f our percolation
ponds so that maintenance can be conducted on each pond as it is rotated out of service. There are two
additional inactive ponds located to the east of the main
Wastewater Plant at the former Ridgemark II Plant. These
additional two po nds can accept flow for percolation if
needed.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 840,000
Emergency Storage The Wastewater Plant can store raw sewage in two
decommissioned ponds at the former Ridgemark II Plant in
an emergency. The liner has been unconfirmed to conform with the General Permit’s requirements for existing storage ponds. An investigation will be conducted
to determine the two ponds liner condition.
Biosolids/Sludge Production and Handling Sludge from the SBR undergoes further anaerobic
treatment in a sludge storage tank. Solids are then pumped into one of four 23,100 square foot concrete lined sludge drying beds. Once sludge is sufficiently dried, they
are tested and removed to a landfill.
Annual production of biosolids: 48.1 tons
Sunnyslope County Water District - 3 - May 27, 2022
Ridgemark Estates Wastewater Treatment Facility
 The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is John
Smith Landfill located at 2650 John Smith Road , Hollister
Non-Potable Recycled
Water Non-potable recycled
water produced onsite: Wastewater System does
NOT produce non- potable
recycled water .

3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Sunnyslope County Water District must operate the Wastewater System in accordance
with the General Permit and this notice of a pplicability. Sunnyslope County Water
District must comply with the wastewater specific limitations specified in Table 3 through
5.

Table 3. Flow Limitations
Flow Units Limit Point of
Compliance
Maximum Daily
Average Gallons per day 350,000 Influent
Maximum Effluent
(to disposal area) Gallons per day 840,000 Effluent

Table 4.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

