Infrastructure/Equipment . The Permittee shall perform monthly maintenance and
operational testing for all emergency infrastructure and equipment at the facility,
including but not lim ited to any bypass gate/weir in the headworks, alarm systems,
backup pumps, standby power generators, and other critical emergency pump
station components. The Permittee shall update the Operation and Maintenance
Plan to include monthly maintenance and ope rational testing of emergency
infrastructure and equipment, and shall keep the records of all operational testing for
emergency systems, repairs, and modifications.
23.19. Collection System Requirements
The State Water Board adopted Statewide G eneral Waste Discharge Requirements for
Sanitary Sewer Systems (Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ , General WDRs ) on May 2, 2006
and amended the General WDRs with Order No. WQ 2008 -0002 -EXEC and Order No.
WQ 2013 -0058 -EXEC, to provide a consistent, statewide regulatory approach to
address sanitary sewer collection systems. The General WDRs require public agencies
that own or operate sanitary sewer systems to develop and implement sewer system
management plans and report all san itary sewer overflows (SSOs) to the State Water
Board’s online SSO database. VCWD’s collection system is required to be part of the
system that is subject to Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ , as amended. On October 11,
2006, VCWD enrolled for coverage under the General WDRs and was assigned WDID
No. 4SSO10471 for the Moorpark collection system . As such, VCWD must properly
operate and maintain its collection system. VCWD must report any non -compliance and
mitigate any discharge from the collection system in violat ion of this Order. On
December 6, 2022, the State Water Board adopted Order WQ 2022 -0103 -DWQ (the
reissu ed General WDRs ), which will go into effect on June 5, 2023. According to section
2.1 of the reissued General WDRs, if an existing enrollee of the Gener al WDRs wishes
to continue coverage from the previous Order 2006 -0003 -DWQ, the Legally
Responsible Official of an existing enrollee shall electronically certify the Continuation of
Existing Regulatory Coverage form in the online California Integrated Water Quality
System (CIWQS) Sanitary Sewer System Database. The Legally Responsible Official
will receive an automated CIWQS -issued Notice of Applicability email, confirming
continuation of regulatory coverage with the General WDRs Order. All regulatory
covera ge under previous Order 2006 -0003 -DWQ will cease on the Effective Date of the
reissued General WDRs Order. An Enrollee continuing existing regulatory coverage is
not required to submit a new application package or pay an application fee for
VENTURA COUNTY WATERWORKS DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER R4-2023 -0089
MOORPARK WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
Adopted WDRs /WRRs Order ( 04/27 /2023 ) 62enrollment unde r this General Order. The annual fee due date for continued regulatory
coverage from previous Order 2006 -0003 -DWQ to the reissued General Order remains
unchanged.
23.20. Spill Reporting Requirements
23.20.1. Initial Notification – Although State and Los An geles Water Board staff do not
have duties as first responders, this requirement is an appropriate mechanism to
ensure that the agencies that do have first responder duties are notified in a timely
manner in order to protect public health and beneficial us es. For certain spills,
overflows and bypasses, VCWD shall make notifications as required below:
a. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code section 5411.5,
VCWD shall provide notification to the local health officer or the director of
environmental health with jurisdiction over the affected water body of any
unauthorized release of sewage or other waste that causes, or probably will cause,
a discharge to any waters of the state or odors, vectors, and other nuisances of
sewage sludge origin beyond the limits of the treatment plant site or the sewage
collection system as soon as possible, but no later than two (2) hours after
becoming aware of the release .
b. In accordance with the requirements of CWC section 13271, VCWD shall provide
notification to the California Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES ) of the release
of reportable quantities of hazardous substances or sewage that causes, or probably
will cause, a discharge to any waters of the state as soon as possible, but not later
than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release. CCR, Title 23, section 2250,
established 1,000 gallons or more as a reportable quantity of sewage. The phone
number for reporting these releases to the Cal OES is (800) 852 -7550 . In addition,
the Discharg er shall notify other interested persons of any such sewage spill by
maintaining an email list of those interested persons that have requested such
notification.
c. VCWD shall notify the Los Angeles Water Board of any unauthorized release of
sewage from th e Moorpark WRF that causes, or probably will cause, a discharge to
a water of the state or odors, vectors, and other nuisances of sewage sludge origin
beyond the limits of the treatment plant site or the sewage collection system as soon
as possible, but not later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release.
This initial notification does not need to be made if VCWD has notified Cal OES and
the local health officer or the director of environmental health with jurisdictio n over
the affected waterbody. The phone number for reporting these releases of sewage
to the Los Angeles Water Board is (213) 576 -6657. The phone numbers for after
hours and weekend reporting of releases of sewage to the Los Angeles Water Board
are (213) 305-2284 and (213) 305 -2253. At a minimum, the following information
shall be provided to the Los Angeles Water Board:
i. The location, date, and time of the release;
ii. The water body that may be impacted by the discharge;
iii. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released and the amount
that reached the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

