2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Newhall Ranch WRP will be a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry
weather design capacity of 2.0 MGD . Phase 1 of the POTW is expected to serve an
estimated population of 17,650. Untreated wastewater will be collected from the new
housing developments and commercial sites located within the Newhall Ranch
Specific Plan area. Treatment at the Newhall Ranch WRP will consist of screening
for removal of large solids, activated sludge b iological treatment with membrane
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2024 -0390
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0064556
ATTACHMENT F- FACT SHEET F-8
ADOPTED: 12/19 /2024bioreactors, nitrification and denitrification, partial reverse osmosis (or equivalent
demineralization), and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. Wastewater may be
discharged intermittently from Discharge Point 001 to the Santa Clara River, a water
of the United States, when the demand for recycled water is low. Newhall Ranch SD
initially proposed to have a diffuser at Discharge Point 001; however, the design
drawing of the whole treatment plant prepared by Pacific Advanced Civil
Engineering indicated that the detailed drawings of the sewer outfall pipe, its slope,
the trail finish grade above the pipe, and the rip rap around the outfall will be
planned by others. Newhall Ranch SD is currently reviewing the need for a diffuser
and its configuration , so a contractor has not yet been selected to complete the final
design of the diffuser . Two options are depicted in the Process Flow Diagram for
solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated from the wastewater will
either be dewatered with a belt thick ener and trucked to the Valencia WRP or
pumped through a pipe to the Valencia WRP for processing, where treatment and
disposal will occur, regulated under Valencia WRP’s NPDES permit (NPDES No.
CA0054216) .
2.1.2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations, and/or
equipment, based on the ROWD submittal and the Preliminary Design Report
prepared by CH2MHill in 2003 . The design of the Facility is scheduled to be
complete by 2028 and the schedule for

===PLANNED CHANGES===

p lanned changes are discussed in section
2.5.
2.1.2.1. Influent grinding. Solids such as paper and rags would be ground prior to
entering the treatment process to prevent entangling of these solids in the
mechanical parts of the treatment chain .
2.1.2.2. Grit removal and screening. Rotating drum fine screens will be utilized to
remove particulate matter that is larger than 1 millimeter (a requirement of the
membrane manufacturer). Grit, which consists of a wide assortment of inorganic
solids such as pebbles, sand, silt, egg shells, glass, and metal fragments will be
removed by settling. Rags and plastics will be removed by screening. This
material will be collected and disposed of in a landfill .
2.1.2.3. Step Feed Activated Sludge (SFAS). Biological treatment using SFAS with
nitrification and denitrification will be used to remove nitrogen from the wastewater.
The SFAS system will consist of two anoxic zones and two aerobic zones. Aeration
in the aerobic zone provides oxygen for living micr oorganisms that are produced
and maintained to breakdown and consume the organic material, such as
ammonia, in the incoming wastewater. The mixture of wastewater with such
microorganisms is known as mixed liquor. In the anoxic zone, denitrification is
accomplished biologically, by anaerobic microorganisms that consume organic
matter in the wastewater and reduce nitrates to nitrogen g as.
2.1.2.4. Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) filtration. A suspended growth biological reactor
that utilizes ultrafiltration membranes will be used as a secondary treatment
process, to reduce the organic content and particulate matter in the wastewater,
and achieve clarification/filtration. The ultrafiltration membrane system is
immersed in the aeration tank and filtration is achieved by drawing water thr ough
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2024 -0390
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0064556
ATTACHMENT F- FACT SHEET F-9
ADOPTED: 12/19 /2024the membrane surface under a vacuum produced by suction permeate pumps. In
effect, the membrane system replaces the function of the secondary clarifiers and
granular media filtration system. The membrane has a maximum pore size of 0.2
microns with an avera ge pore size of 0.07 microns, placing it almost in the
ultrafiltration range. Ultrafiltration membranes will be installed in separate aerated
tanks at the end of the SFAS syst em.
2.1.2.5. Reverse Osmosis (RO). Reverse osmosis treatment is proposed for a portion of
the MBR treated effluent at the Newhall Ranch WRP to achieve chloride reduction.
The permeate will be blended with MBR effluent that has not been treated by RO
to achieve the desired final effluent chloride concentration. RO is expected to
reduce the chloride levels in the RO-treated portion of the effluent by approximately
95%. During the 2019 permit renewal process, b rine disposal was contemplated in
one of two ways: by deep well injection (through a separate USEPA Underground
Injection Control (UIC) permit No. R9UIC -CA1-FY11 -4 obtained in 2013 ) or by
trucking it to the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant (currently known as the A.K.
Warren Water Resource Facility) for treatment and ocean disp osal. However,
USEPA UIC permit No. R9UIC -CA1-FY11 -4 expired on November 11, 2023 , and is
no longer in effect . Dexter Wilson Engineering, Inc. , prepared the Newhall Ranch
Sanitation District Engineer’s Report (Job No. 721 -012), dated November 2018,
indicat ing that deep well injection is no longer the most cost -effective method of
brine disposal and that the currently preferred brine disposal method in the region
is to concentrate brine and truck to a suitable disposal location, as is the current
case from the new Valencia WRP Advanced Water Treatment (AWT) facilities.
Newhall Ranch SD indicated , in supplemental information submitted with the 2024
ROWD , that it is possible that during design/construction of the Newhall Ranch
WRP (or at another future point in time), the feasib ility of the brine disposal
alternative through a Class I UIC permit may be reconsider ed. As identified in the
November 2018 Newhall Ranch SD Engineer’s Report, Newhall Ranch SD’s
currently preferred brine disposal method in the region is to concentrate brine and
truck to a suitable disposal location .
2.1.2.6. Flow Equalization. Flow equalization will be provided in the Newhall Ranch
WRP through in -tank equalization and an onsite storage pond (with a 0.8 mgd
holding capacity). In-tank equalization will be achieved by providing 6 feet of
freeboard in the membrane bioreactor tank, which is four feet of additional
freeboard, beyond the necessary 2 -foot freeboard required. This allows for
adjustments of flow within the plant throughout the day, during peak flow
conditions, and during storm events. Once the storm event/ p eak flow conditions
have subsided, the overflow stored in the pond will be pumped back to the plant
headworks for treatment .
2.1.2.7. Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Irradiation with UV light will be used as the
method of disinfection at the Newhall Ranch WRP. Although it provides no
residual, this method is effective in inactivating both bacteria and viruses. When
applied to low -turbidity water, it has been proven to be effective. UV spans
wavelengths from 2000 -3900 angstroms. The most effective band for disinfection is
in the shorter range of 2000 -3000 angstrom s.
NEWHALL RANCH SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2024 -0390
NEWHALL RANCH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0064556
ATTACHMENT F- FACT SHEET F-10
ADOPTED: 12/19 /20242.1.2.8. Chlorination. Sodium hypochlorite will be used as a cleaning agent for the
bioreactor membrane s.
2.1.2.9 . Solids handling. Grit and bar screenings will be hauled off- site for disposal in a
landfill. Sludge may be disposed of using one of two options: transporting the wet
sludge to the Valencia WRP in a pipeline during initial phases of the Newhall
Ranch WRP , or trucking the dewatered sludge from a gravity belt thickener to the
Valencia WRP during later phases of construction.
2.1.3. Water Reclamation
The Discharger plans to recycle up to 478 acre -feet per month (during February
through November) and up to 340 acre -feet per month (during December through
January) of its tertiary -treated effluent for landscape irrigation every year. When the
demand for recycled water is low, Newhall Ranch WRP will discharge the excess
tertiary -treated effluent to the Santa Clara River. When the demand for recycled
water exceeds what the Newhall Ranch WRP can provide, Newhall Ranch SD plans
on using water from the Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency to supplement the
recycled water supply , so that the recycled water customers do not experience a
shortage in service. The distribution and reuse of recycled water for direct, non -
potable applications would be regulated under the State Water Board’s General
Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW for Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled
Water Use (General W RR). However, after the Newhall Ranch WRP treatment
design is complete , but prio r to us ing of the treated effluent for recycling, the
Discharger must submit an engineering report to the State Water Board Division of
Drinking Water (DDW) for approval and must submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) to the
Los Angeles Water Board to obtain coverage under the State Water Board’s General
WRR .
2.2. Discharge P oints and