Governor
The Lake Don Pedro Owners' Association submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (RWD)
for coverage of a septic system at Lake Don Pedro Owners' Association Hacienda
clubhouse under Water Quality Order No. 97-10-DWQ, General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Discharges to Land by Small Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems
(hereafter General Order). The RWD contains all the technical information required;
therefore, the RWD is complete . Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 85-325, which
currently regulates the onsite system and discharge to an evaporation pond, will be
rescinded.
Based on the information provided in the RWD, the discharge meets the conditions of the
General Order. All the requirements contained within the General Order described as
applicable to "All Small Domestic Systems," and "Surface Disposal Systems" apply to your
onsite wastewater treatment and disposal system (onsite system). You are hereby
assigned coverage under General Order No. 97-10-DWQ-R5050.
PROJECT LOCATION
The onsite system is located in Tuolumne County, in Township T2S, Range R14E of
Section 32 and 33, MDB&M.
The onsite system is in the Sacramento and San Joaquin River Basin. The Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento and San Joaquin River Basin, Fourth Edition (hereafter
Basin Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve water quality objectives for all waters of
the Basin.
California Environmental Protection Agency
(:/?ecyc/ed Paper
Ms. Pam Hatler - 2 - 11 July 2008
The Regional Water Board's policy regarding the design and operation of onsite system is
described in the enclosed Guidelines for Waste Disposal from Land Developments
(hereafter Guidelines), which are incorporated in the Basin Plan.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Lake Don Pedro Owners' Association is replacing the existing septic tank at its clubhouse
with a new septic tank. A wastewater volume of 2,000 gallons per day will be discharged
from the septic tank into an evaporation pond.
This Notice of Applicability (NOA) regulates the septic system at Lake Don Pedro Owners'
Association Hacienda and its discharge of domestic wastewater to land.
FACILITY-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
1. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in
the RWD is prohibited.
' 2. The existing onsite system shall be operated as described in the RWD and in
accordance with the requirements contained in the General Order and in the
enclosed Guidelines for Waste Disposal from Land Developments, whichever are
more stringent.
3. Prior to initiating discharge to the onsite system, the Discharger shall submit a
technical report certifying that the onsite system was constructed in accordance with
the RWD and is capable of complying with the General Order and this NOA. The
technical report is subject to the requirements of Facility-Specific Requirement 5 and
is subject to Executive Officer written approval.
4. As a means for determining compliance with General Order Requirement B.3, the
Discharger shall include in each annual report ( due 15 January) a copy of a log
documenting the quantity and method of disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings and
sludge) removed from the onsite system during the previous calendar year.
5. All technical reports required herein that involve evaluation, or other work requiring
interpretation and proper application of engineering or geologic sciences, shall be
prepared by or under the direction of persons registered to practice in California
pursuant to California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and
7835.1. To demonstrate compliance with Title 16, California Code of Regulations,
sections 415 and 3065, all technical reports must contain a statement of the
qualifications of the responsible registered professional(s). As required by these
laws, completed technical reports must bear the signature(s) and seal(s) of the
registered professional(s) in a manner such that all work can be clearly attributed to
the professional responsible for the work.
6. The Discharger shall submit the required annual fee (as specified in the annual
billing issued by the State Water Resources Control Board) until the NOA is officially
terminated.
Ms. Pam Hatler -3 - 11 July 2008
7. Failure to abide by the conditions of the General Order and this letter authorizing
applicability, including its supplemental monitoring and reporting requirements, could
result in enforcement actions as authorized by provisions of the California Water
Code.
If you have any questions regarding this NOA or associated fees, contact Denise Soria at
(559) 444-2488.
J---~~
~mela C. Creedon tJ 1::xecutive Officer
Enclosures: Water Quality Order No. 97-10-DWQ
Guidelines for Waste Disposal from Land Developments
cc: Tuolumne County Planning Division, Sonora
Ms. Evelyn Rosefield, Accredited Septic Monitoring, Mi Wuk Village w/enclosure
N15/ A/ Lake Don Pedro Owners' Association / Hacienda WWTF / 5C552007001
R:\Staff\Dsoria\N.O.A\Lake Don Pedro-Hacienda OWTS.doc
Reg Measure ID 331383

===PLANNED CHANGES===

