Dischargers seeking coverage under these general WDRs shall file; (I) a
standard application for WDRs (Report of Waste Discharge), a Form 200,
or an equivalent document; and (2) a first. annual fee of $400 which
corresponds to a Threat to Water Quality and Complexity of 3b in-the fee..
schedule listed in Section 2200 of Title 23, California Code of Regulations.
(CCR). Upon review by Regional Water Quality.Control Board (RWQCB)
staff, a determination will be made as to whether or not coverage u.nder
these general WDRs is appropriate. The discharger shall be notified by a
letter from the RWQCB's Executive Officer when coverage under these
general WDRs has begun.
8. Each RWQCB has its own waiver policies and conditions. Any discharger
currently under a waiver from the RWQCB does not need to apply for
coverage under these general WDRs. . .
9. Although a discharge may be eligible for coverage under this general
WDR, the appropriate RWQCB rilay determi'ne that the discharge would
**
L "3 Q - - (?3 - -3- .
J. I
be better regulated under an individual WDR, under another general
WDR, or under a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit for discharges to surface waters. If a discharge is
regulated under an individual or general WDR, or a waiver, or under an
NPDES permit issued by an RWQCB, the applicability of this general
WDR to the discharge is immediately terminated on the effective date of
the RWQCB's WDR or NPDES permit. I
I
I
I 10. This Order does not preempt or supersede the authority of municipalities, I
flood control agencies, or other local agencies to prohibit, restrict, or
control discharges of waste subject to their jurisdiction.
11. These WDRs are exempt from Chapter 15 requirements pursuant to CCR, .
Title 23, Chapter 15, Section 251 1 (a).
I
12. This general WDR is intended to cover both new and existing small
domestic systems. The adoption of WDRs for existing small domestic 1
I
systems is exempt from the California Environmental Q'uality Act (CEQA) !
I under CCR, Title 14, Section 15261 or Section 15301 as ongoing or I
existing projects. i
13. The State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) has adopted a
' Mitigated Negative Declaration in compliance with CEQA for new small
domestic systems. The potential significant environmental impacts from
discharges from new small domestic systems can be mitigated to a level
of insignificance by compliance with this Order.
14. Pursuant to Section 13263 of the CWC, the SWRCB, in establishing the
requirements contained herein, considered factors including but not
limited to the .following:
a. Past, present, and probable future beneficial uses of water
b. Environmental characteristics of the hydrographic unit under
consideration, including the quality of water available thereto.
' c. Water quality conditions that could reasonably be achieved through
the coordinated control of all factors which affect water quality in
the area.
d. Economic considerations.
e. The need for developing housing within the Region(s).
f. The need to develop and use recycled water.
The SWRCB has notified potential dischargers and all other known
interested parties of the'intent to prescribe WDRs as described in this
Order.
16. The SWRGB, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments - pertaining to the proposed discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the discharger,in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the CWC and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply
with the following:
A. Prohibitions:
1. The direct or indirect discharge of any wastewater to surface waters or
surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. The treatment and disposal of wastes at the facility shall not cause . ,
pollution, contamination, or nuisance as defined in CWC Section 13050.
3. The discharge of wastewater, other than domestic wastewater, into a
small domestic system is prohibited.
4. ' Bypass or overflow of treated or untreated'waste is prohibited.
5. The discharge of waste to land not owned or controlled by the dischargei
is prohibited.
6. The discharge of wastes from small domestic systems which is not
authorized by this general W6R or other Order or waiver by the RWQCB
is prohibited.
7. Discharge of waste classified as "hazardous", or "designated", as defined
in CCR, Title 23, Chapter 15, Section 2521 (a) and CWC Section 13173,
respectively, to any part of the wastewater disposal system is prohibited. -
B. Requirements:
1. For All Small Domestic Systems:
a. Odors of sewage origin shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
. of the discharger's property boundaries.
b. The siting, design, construction, operation, maintenance, and
monitoring of all small domestic systems must comply with all of the
applicable provisions of the RWQCB's Basin Plan.
c. The discharger shall not discharge waste in excess of the
maximum design and disposal capacity of the small domestic
system.
d. The discharge of waste from small domestic systems shall comply.
with all applicable provisions of the RWQCB's Basin Plan, including
but not limited to any prohibitions and water quality objectives.
For Septic Systems, the ~olfowin~ Additional requirements Apply:
a. Septic tank cleanings shall be'performed only by a duly authorized
service.
b. The discharger shall maintain a log of all septic cleanings. At a
minimum the log shall include the date of the cleaning, and the
name, address, phone number, and license number (if applicable)
of the cleaner. \
c. Dischargers who accept wastes from RVs or'other mobile waste
systems must ensure that such wastes (with constituents including
formaldehyde, zinc, and phenol) do not deleteriously affect the
septic system or impact the ground water.
. ,
3. , For Activated sludge sy,stems, the Following Additional
Requirements Apply: .
If collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes are disposed of at a landfill, such disposal shall comply with CCR,
Title 23, Section 251 0, et seq. (Chapter 15).
b. If sewage sludge is land applied, disposed of at a monofill, or
incinerated, this activity shall comply with existing Federal,State, ..
and local laws and regulations, including requirements of 40 CFR a
503, the RWQCB, and the county ordinances, and shall be
approved by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer.
c. The discharger shall submit a sludge disposal plan and obtain the
appropriate RWQCB Executive Officer's written permission prior to
any disposal of sludge. The Executive Officer shall be informed of
any changes in this plan at least 60 days in advance of the
change.
For Aerated Pond Systems, the Following Additional' Requirements
Apply: . .
If collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes are dispcsed of at a landfill, such disposal shall comply with CCR,
Title 23, Section 251 0, .et seq. (Chapter 15). '
5. For Subsurface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional
Requirements Apply:
a. The subsurface wastewater disposal system(s) shall be maintained
so that at no time will sewage surface at any location.
b. No part of the disposal systern(s) shall extend to a depth where
. waste may pollute ground water.
' 6. For Surface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional
Requirements Apply:
a. A minimum freeboard of two (2) feet shall be maintained at all times
in the .basins or ponds.
b. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such
means as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
c. Basins or ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate
allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and
ancillary inflow and infiltration du'ring the winter season. Design
seasonal precipitation shall be based on criteria, if any, set in the
. appropriate RWQCB's Basin Plan., If no criteria is set in the
appropriate RWQCB1s Basin Plan, then seasonal precipitation shall
be based on historical 24 hour rain fall, using a 10 year return
frequency.
d. Disposal in ponds shall be conducted in a manner such that there
shall be no stranded or exposed sewage solids.
C. Ground Water and Surface Water Limitations:
1. The discharge shall not:
a. Pollute ground or surface waters.
b. Adversely affect beneficial uses or cause an exceedance of any
applicable Bssin Plan water quality objectives for ground or surface
- waters.
2. Where treated wastewater is applied to land by sprinkler or spray -
methods, the discharger shall manage wastewater application to prevent it
from commingling with storm water runoff, or such runoff shall be fully
retained.
D. Provisions: I I
1. For All small Domestic Systems:
a. Adequate measures shallbetakento assure that Aood or surface . . drainage waters do not erode or otherwise damage the discharge
facilities.
b. The discharger shall ensure that all site operating personnel are
familiar with the contents of this general WDR and shall maintain a
copy of this general WDR at the site. .
c. Prior to sny modifications in the discharger's facility which would
result in a material change in the quality or quantity of wastewater
treated or discharged, or any material change in the location of
discharge, the discharger shall report all periinent information in
writing to the appropriate RWQCB and obtain confirmation from the
appropriate RWQCB that such modifications do not disqualify the
discharger from coverage under these general WDRs. Either
- confirmation or new WDRs must be obtained before any
modifications are implemented.
d. The discharger shall comply with "General Monitoring and
Reporting Program No. 97-10-DWQ (Attachment A), and any future
revisions, as specified by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive
Officer. -
e. The appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer and the Director of the
County Environmental Health Department or equivalent agency
shall be notified immediately of any failure of the wastewater
containment facilities. Such failure shall be promptly corrected in
accordance with' the requirements of this Order.
f. The discharger at all times shall properly operate and maintain all
facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related
appurtenances) which are installed or used by the discharger to
achieve compliance with conditions of this Order. The discharger
shall keep in a state of readiness all systems necessary to achieve
compliance with. the conditions of this Order. All systems, both
those in service and reserve, shall be inspected and maintained on
a regular basis. Records shall be kept of the tests and made
available to the RWQCB. -
g. This Order does not convey any property rights or exclusive
pr'ivileges. The requirements prescribed 'herein do not authorize
the commission of any act causing injury to persons or property, do
not protect the discharger from liability under Federal, State, or
local laws, and do not create a vested right to continue to'discharge
wastewater.
h. This Order does not relieve the discharger from responsibility to
obtain other necessary local, State, and Federal permits to
construct facilities necessary for ,compliance with this Order, nor
does this Order prevent imposition of additional standards,
requirements, or conditions by any other regulatory agency.
i. The discharger shall allow the RWQCB or an authorized
representative, upon presentation of credentials and other
documents as may be required by law, to:
(1) Enter upon the premises where a regulated facility or activity
is located or conducted or where records must be kept
under the conditions of this Order;
(2) Have accessto and copy at reasonable times eny records
that shall be kept under the conditions of this Order;
(3) Inspect, at reasonable times, any facilities, equipment,
practices, or operations regulated or required under this
Order; and
(4) Sample, photograph, video record, andlor monitor at
reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring compliance
with this Order or as otherwise authorized by the CWC, any
substances or,parameters at this location. -
j. . All regulated disposal systems shall be readily accessible for
sampling and inspection.
k. The SWRCB will review this order periodically and will revise .
requirements when necessary.
I. . Paragraphs of this Order are severable. If any paragraph is found
invalid, the remaining paragraphs shall not be affected. .
m. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, coverage of an individual
discharge under this Order may be terminated or modified for
cause, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Violation of any term or condition contained in this Order;
(2) obtaining this Order by misrepresentation or failure to
disclose all relevant facts;
(3) A change in any condition that requires. either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized
discharge.
The filing of a request by the discharger for an Order modification,
revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any
condition of this Order.
n. The discharger shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any
information the RWQCB or the SWRCB may request to determine
whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or
terminating the discharger's coverage under this Order.. The
Discharger shall also furnish to the RWQCB or the SWRCB, upon
request, copies of records required to be kept by this Order.
o. Unless otherwise approved by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive
Officer, all analyses shall be conducted at a laboratory certified for
such analyses by the State Department of Health services. All
analyses shall be conducted in accordance with the latest edition of
"Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants", promulgated by the U. S. Environmental Protection
Agency (U.S. EPA).
p. The discharger shall retain records of all monitoring information
including all calibration and maintenance records, copies of all
reports required by this Order, and records of all data used to
complete the application for this Order. Records shall be -
maintained for a minimum of three yezrs from the date of the
sample, measurement, or report. This period may be extended
during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding this
discharge or when requested by the appropriate RWQCB's
' Executive Officer.
q. The discharger shall immediately remove any wastes which are
discharged at the site regulated by this Order in violation of these
requirements.
r. All performed maintenance and noncompliance issues shall be
reported with the monitoring reports as required.
I
I
s. Adequate measures shall be taken to assure that unauthorized -
persons are effectively excluded from contact with the wastewater
. . disposal facility(s).
. t. The discharger shall comply with all of the conditions of this Order.
Any noncompliance with this Order constitutes a violation of the
Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act andlor appropriate Basin
Plan and is grounds for an enforcement action.
u. Waste treatment facilities subject to this Order shall be supervised
and operated by persons possessing certificates of appropriate
grade pursuant to Division 4, Chapter 14, Title 23 CCR.
v. The discharger shall comply with all of the conditions contained in
the Standard Provisions included with this Order as Attachment B.
2. For Septic Systems, the Following Additional Provisions Apply:
a. All employees ~f the regulated facility shall receive training on how
to minimize pollutant discharges to the septic system. This
instruction should include the following topics:
(1) Proper disposal of materials handled at the regulated facility.
(2) Methods to wash tools and other objects so that no
contaminants are introduced into the septic system.
(3) Methods to wash hands so that no contaminants are
introduced into the septic system.
b. . Any off-site disposal of septage shall be only to a legal point of .
disposal, with the approval.of the legal disposal site operator. For
purposes of these requirements, a legal disposal site is one'for
which requirements have been established by the'approprkte .-
RWQCB and which is in full compliance therewith. Any septage
handling shall be in such a manner as to prevent its reaching
surface waters or watercourses.
3. For Activated Sludge'and Aerated Pond Systems, the Following
Additional Provisions Apply:
a. The Discharger shall obtain prior written approval from the
appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer specifying location and
method of disposal before disposing of treated or untreated sludge
or similar solid waste materials. Such written approval is valid until
a change in the manner or location of disposal occurs, or until the
discharger is otherwise notified by the appropriate RWQCB's
Executive Officer. In addition, the discharger shall provide the .
results of any sludge analyses as specified by the RWQCB's
Executive Officer.
b. The discharger shall provide safeguards to electric power failure as
follows:
(1) The discharger, within ninety (90) days of the effective date
of this Order, shall submit to the appropriate RWQCB for
approval a description of the existing safeguards provided to
assure that, should there be reduction, loss, or failure of
electric power, the discharger shall comply with the terms
and conditions of its Order. Such safeguards may include
alternate power sources, standby generators, retention
capacity, operating procedures, or other means. A
description of the safeguards provided shall include an
analysis of the frequency, duration, and impact of power
failures experienced over the past five years or from time of
start-up, whichever is shorter, on effluent quality and on the
capability of the discharger to comply with the terms and
conditions of the Order. The appropriate RWQCB shall
determine whether the safeguards are adequate.
(2) Should the RWQCB not approve the existing safeguards,
the discharger, within ninety (90) days of having been
advised by the appropriate RWQCB that the existing
safeguards are inadequate, shall provide to the RWQCB a
schedule of compliance for providing safeguards such that in
the event of reduction, loss, or failure of electric power, the
permittee will comply with the terms and conditions of this
Order. The schedule of compliance, upon approval of the
appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer, shall become a ..
condition of this Order as it applies to the specific
discharger.
(3) 'If the discharger already has an approved plan(s), the plan
shall be revised and updated as speciiied in the plan or
whenever there has been a material change in design or
operation. A revised plan shall be submitted to the
appropriate RWQCB within ninety (90) days of the material
change.
4. For Subsurface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional '
Provisions Apply:
New small domestic systems shall reserve sufficient land area for possible -
future 100 percent replacement of the subsurface disposal area until such
time as the discharger's facility is connected to a municipal sewerage
system.
Certification
' The undersigned, Administrative Assistant to the SWRCB, does hereby certify that the
foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of an order duly and regularly adopted at a
meeting of the State Water Resources Control Board held on November 18, 1997.
AYE: John Caffrey
James M. Stubchaer -
Marc Del Piero .
Mary Jane Forster
John W. Brown
NO: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None
~dministrative Assistant. to the Board
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 97-10-DWQ
FOR
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS (WDRs)
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTE SYSTEMS
Septic Tank Monitoring
. Effluent Monitoring
Monitoring of septic tank effluent shall include the following: t
Parameter
Flow . Units Type of
~arnd~e Samplina Frequency
~stimate . Monthly
 low estimates may be obtained from water meter readings.
Maintenance and lnspection
I
Septic tanks shall be inspected and pumped as described below. An inspection is not
required during the year a septictank is pumped.
Parameter Type of ' Minimum
Units Measurement Inspection Fre~uency
Sludge depth and scum Feet Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
thickness in each compartment year)
of each septic tank -
Distance between bottom of lnches Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
scum layer and bottom of year)'
outlet device
Distance between top of Inches Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
sludge layer and bottom of year)
outlet device
Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exist, or may . . , ... occur before the next inspection:
a. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one-third of the tank depth - of the first compartment; or,
b. The scum layer is within three inches of the outlet device; or,
c. The sludge layer is within eight inches of the outlet device.
In lieu of septic tank measuring, the septic tank may be pumped annually.
Activated Sludoe Systems Monitorinq ,
Influent Monitorinq
Monitoring of Activated Sludge System influent shall consist of the following:
Type of