City of Avalon.
2.1.2. In addition, to protect water quality in Avalon Bay, the Facility also treats a portion
of the dry weather surface runoff and the first flush of storm water (first half hour of
rainfall), via low -flow diversions into the sewer collection system. This is an
intermittent system and only activates during dry weather and the first half hour of
rainfall events; it is not a combined sewer system. After the first half hour of rainfall,
the system is designed to redirect runoff to the storm drains, which con vey
stormwater to the ocean.
2.1.3. Wastewater treatment at the Facility consists of a rotating screen for removal of
large particles, an aerated grit unit, a trickling filter and activated sludge reactors for
removal of organics, clarifiers for separation of solids, and a chlorination syste m for
disinfection. The trickling filter is typically only used during the summer. When the
trickling filter is online, approximately twenty percent of the influent flow is diverted
from the aerated grit unit to remove additional BOD and suspended solids f rom the
CITY OF AVALON ORDER R4-2024 -0253
AVALON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES N O.CA0054372
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 5/23/2024 F-5wastewater before combining with the remaining influent flow from the aerated grit
unit and entering the aeration tanks. The effluent is partially chlorinated with the
addition of sodium hypochlorite solution to maintain consistent compliance with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Change s
The Avalon WWTF’s chlorine contact basin deteriorated over the years and was in
danger of collapsing, creating a safety hazard to staff working at the Avalon WWTF
when doing routine cleaning and potentially causing water quality issues. For the
duration of the rehabilitation project for the chlorine contact basin (rehabilitation project) ,
the Discharger move d the sodium hypochlorite injection point from the chlorine contact
basin to the clarifier effluent common channel at the beginning of the bypass line a nd
collect ed routine grab samples 0.5 miles downstream of the Avalon WWTF at a street
manhole. The wastewater continue d receiving the required chlorine contact time
because the chlorine contact basin provided approximately 25 minutes of contact time ,
and the time it took the wastewater to travel to the manhole where grab samples were
collected was approximately 45 minutes. Wastewater was not dechlorinated prior to
discharge. The Discharger also collect ed composite samples for routine monitoring
along the en try point to the bypass line instead of at the end of the chlorine contact
basin. The bypass line was rated to convey up to 2.3 million gallons per day and the
daily average flow at the Avalon WWTF was approximately 0.5 MGD, so overloading of
the bypass line was not anticipated.
The rehabilitation project began on November 27, 2023 , and was completed on January
10, 2024.
3.