1. Fallbrook WRP
All wastewater entering the Fallbrook WRP is subjected to full tertiary treatment
consisting of preliminary tr eatment by mechanical bar screening and aerated grit
removal, primary sedimentation and scum removal, biological treatment using
activated sludge followed by secondary clarif ication, tertiary treatment consisting
of coagulation followed by single-media anthr acite filter, and chlorine disinfection.
Dechlorination of chlorinated effluent is accomplished with sodium bisulfite
(NaHSO 3).
Screenings from the headworks and solid s from grit remo val are washed and
compacted prior to being hauled to a loca l landfill for disposal. Sludge from the
secondary treatment processes at the Fa llbrook WRP is aer obically digested,
then dewatered by a centrif uge. Dewatered sludge is fed to a thermal dryer to
meet Class A biosolids requirements. Class A biosolids are utiliz ed as fertilizer by
local farmers. If the dryer is inoperative, dewatered slud ge (Class B biosolids) is
either sent to one of twelve drying beds for a minimum of th ree months, or to
hauling containers for disposal. The Di scharger contracts with Denali Solid
Solutions for transporting Class B biosolid s for land application in Yuma, Arizona.
During high flows or emergency operati ng or maintenance periods, a 1.2-million-
gallon (MG) secondary effluent equalizati on basin is available for temporary
storage. When this volume is exceeded, secondary effluent is discharged to the Fallbrook Public Utility District’s 16-in ch-diameter land outfall (Fallbrook Land
Outfall) at rates not exceeding the hydr aulic capacity of the Fallbrook Land Outfall
of 3.6 MGD. Additionally, the Fallb rook WRP has a 1.0-MG recycled water
storage basin.
The Discharger currently provides recycled water within its service area and
through the Fallbrook Land Outfall to Calt rans in Oceanside. Recycled water
distributed from the Fallbr ook WRP is regulated under separate WDRs, Order No.
91-39
1.
Treated effluent from the Fallbrook WRP not distributed as recycled water in the
Discharger’s service area is dechlorinat ed with sodium bisulfate and discharged
to the Fallbrook Land Outfall, which conv eys the effluent to the Oceanside Ocean
Outfall (OOO).

1 On May 20, 1991, the San Diego Water Board adopted Order No. 91-39, Waste Discharge Requirements for
Fallbrook Public Utility District Plant Nos. 1 and 2 Reclamation Projects, San Diego County . Addendums to
Order No. 91-39 were adopted on August 10, 1995, February 13, 1997, and August 13, 1997.
FALLBROOK PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R9-2019-0169
FALLBROOK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT Amended by Order No. R9-2020-0193 and R9-2021-0204
SANTA MARGARITA GROUNDWATER TREAT MENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0108031


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 The Fallbrook WRP is sized to treat an average dry weather flow of 2.7 MGD and
a maximum wet weather flow of 3.6 MGD. In 2018, the average influent flow to
the Fallbrook WRP was 1.43 MGD and t he average effluent flow from the
Fallbrook WRP to the OOO was 0.64 MGD. From January 1, 2015 to December
31, 2016 FPUD sent an annual average of 79.17 MGD to reuse sites for irrigation and 129.13 MGD to reuse sites for agriculture.
2. Santa Margarita GTP
The Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton (MCB Camp Pendleton), U.S.
Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, and the Discharger are
constructing and will operate a proposed Co njunctive Use Project. The project will
enhance groundwater recharge and recovery capacity within the Lower Santa Margarita River Basin and dev elop a conjunctive use pr ogram that will increase
available water supplies for the benefit of Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton
and the Discharger. The proposed project includes the construction and use of
facilities within MCB Camp Pendleton and the Discharger’s service area and within the boundaries of the Santa Margarita River watershed. The project will
capture additional surface runoff during high streamfl ow events in the Santa
Margarita River that current ly flows out to the Pacific Ocean. This surface water
will be used to recharge groundwater th rough existing groundwater percolation
ponds and stored or “banked” in groundwater basins during wet years and used
to augment water supplies during dry year s, reducing reliance on imported water.
The proposed project includes a bidirectio nal pipeline to deliver water to the
Discharger and provide MCB Camp Pendl eton with an off-base water supply
during drier than normal condi tions or emergency sit uations, and the proposed
Santa Margarita GTP. Raw groundwater would be pump ed from the aquifer and
conveyed to MCB Camp Pendleton’s water treatment plant (Advanced Water Treatment Plant at Haybar n Canyon) and through the bidi rectional pipeline to the
Santa Margarita GTP. Raw groundwater delivered to th e Santa Margarita GTP is
expected to average 3,100 acre-feet per year and is not expected to exceed 800 acre-feet in any given month. However, total volumes of raw water deliveries to
FPUD will vary annually, depending upon mult iple factors including, but not
limited to, precipitation, river surface flow s, surface diversions, and environmental
considerations. Treated imported water from t he San Diego County Water
Authority can also be delivered through the same bidirectional facility from the
Discharger to MCB Camp Pendl eton, if and when needed.
The Santa Margarita GTP will be constr ucted on the same property as the
Fallbrook WRP. The FPUD WTP includes an equalization tank, pretreatment
oxidation with sodium hypochlorite, ir on and manganese filters, sodium bisulfite
and anti-scalent to protect the reverse osmo sis (RO) units, RO demineralization,
neutralization with sodium hy droxide, clearwell, sodium hypochlorite for primary
disinfection, ammonia hydrox ide to form a chloramine residual in the pipeline.
The FPUD WTP will be connected to and controlled by the Discharger’s SCADA system.
The iron and manganese filt ers are expected to remo ve 97% of the iron and
manganese in the system, reducing the effluent iron and manganese
FALLBROOK PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R9-2019-0169
FALLBROOK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT Amended by Order No. R9-2020-0193 and R9-2021-0204
SANTA MARGARITA GROUNDWATER TREAT MENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0108031


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 concentrations to below 0.3 milligrams/lit er (mg/L) and 0.05 mg/L, respectively.
Iron and manganese system reject streams wil l flow to reclaim tanks for solids
separation. The liquid will be decanted and re turned to the start of the iron and
manganese filters for treat ment. The remaining solids would be pumped to
existing sludge drying beds at the Fallbrook WRP. Dec ant from the drying beds
will be pumped to the Discharger’s sew age collection system and the remaining
dry solids will be removed for disposal at a landfill.
The feed water for the Santa Margarita GT P is expected to have relatively low
salinity based on water quality data from ex isting production wells in the Lower
Santa Margarita River Basin. Therefore, to maximize the RO treatment process
efficiency and achieve a product water wit h a total dissolved solids (TDS) of
500 mg/L, approximately 49% of the effl uent from the iron and manganese filters
bypasses the sodium bisulfite, anti-scal ent, RO units, and sodium hydroxide, and
blends with the RO permeate upstream of the clearwell.
The Discharger’s ROWD stat ed that the concentrated fl ows (i.e., brine waste)
from the RO unit would be discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the OOO,
with a maximum flow of about 0.65 MG D and a TDS concentration of 6,567 mg/L.
In emails dated July 24 and 29, 2019, the Discharger stated that it plans to
discharge the brine waste to its Fallbrook WRP, chlorine contact basin wet well,
after the reclaimed water pum p station/storage, but before the effluent monitoring
for the ocean outfall, however this is subj ect to change. The July 24 email also
states that the total flow from the Fallbrook WRP and Santa Margarita GTP to the
OOO will remain within the flow limitati ons contained in Order No. R9-2012-0004.
The maximum product water for the Santa Margarita GTP is estimated to be about 8 MGD or 92% of t he feed groundwater flow based on cumulative process
recoveries in the system.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

