Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Sanitary Sewer System . The City of Benicia sanitary sewer system conveys
wastewater to the plant and is covered by this Order. The system consists of
23 lift stations and 153 miles of pipelines , including 148 miles of gravity main
and 5 miles of force main .
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . Wastewater treatment consists of screening, grinding,
grit removal, primary clarification, biological secondary treatment, disinfection ,
and dechlorination. The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 4.5 MGD
and a wet weather capacity of 1 1 MGD. From February 2020 through January
2024, the plant treated an average of 1.9 MGD and a maximum of 9.4 MGD.

Biological s econdary treatment consists of aeration basins and secondary
clarifiers in two parallel treatment trains with a combined capacity of 8.0 MGD.
Primary -treated wastewater over 8 .0 MGD is directed to one rotating biological
contactor followed by secondary clarifiers , or to flow equalization . The rotating
biological contactor train can treat about 3.0 MGD. All secondary -treated
effluent is combined in the chlorine mixing chamber and disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge.

During peak flows or upsets, the plant can store up to one million gallons of
influent, primary effluent, or final effluent in seven flow equalization and storage
basins, called multi -purpose storage basins, for later treatment. The basins
(previously used for two decommissioned rotating biological contactor trains )
provide an additional 0.46 million gallons of flow equalization capacity. A wrap -
around pipeline allows the plant t o pump effluent from the final effluent pump
station to the holding basins. When necessary, t his allows the Discharger to
reroute effluent that may violate permit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Supplemented
5.7. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not Supplemented
5.8. Other Noncompliance – Not Supplemented
5.9. Other Information – Not Supplemented
6. STANDARD PROVISIONS – ENFORCEMENT – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
8. DEFINITIONS – ADDITION TO ATTACHMENT D
More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.
8.1. Arithmetic Calculations
8.1.1. Geometric Mean. The antilog of the log mean or the back -transformed mean of
the logarithmically transformed variables, which is equivalent to the
multiplication of the antilogarithms. The geometric mean can be calculated with
either of the following equations:
Geometric Mean = Anti log (1/N ∑ Log C i)
or
Geometric Mean = (C 1 x C2 x … x CN)1/N
Where “N” is the number of data points for the period analyzed and “C” is the
concentration for each of the “N” data points.
City of Benicia Order R2-2025-0001
City of Benicia Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0038091