2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant is located at 700 Coast
Highway in Pacifica. It provides advanced secondary treatment of domesti c and
commercia l wastewater from the City of Pacifica . The population within the
service area is approximately 40,000 people . Attachment B shows the area
City of Pacifica Order R2 -2022 -0029
Calera Creek Water Recycling Plant NPDES Permi tCA00 38776
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4around the Facility. The Discharger owns and operates about 100 miles of
sewer lines and five pump stations.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The Facility provides advanced secondary treatment
as described below and as shown in the Process F low Diagram in
Attachment C. The treatment process consists of screening, grit removal,
sequencing batch reactors , sand filtration, and ultraviolet ( UV) disinfection. The
screening occurs at two of the Discharger ’s pump stations.
The Discharger either diverts its effluent to its cascade aerator , where the
effluent discharges into Calera Creek and travels to the Discharger’s
constructed wetland s to the Pacific Ocean, or routes it to the North Coast
County Water District , where it receives additional disinfection an d distribution
for recycled water use .
2.1.3 . Wastewater Storage . In 2019 , the Discharger built a 2.1 million gallon
equalization basin near its Linda Mar pump station. The Discharger completed
this project in accordance with Cease and Desist Order (CDO) R2-2011 -0031 ,
as amended by CDO R2 -2013 -0005 , to reduce sanitary sewer overflows
(SSOs).
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the sequencing batch
reactors is aerated and contained in waste activated sludge tanks before being
diverted to the gravity belt thickeners. Next, thickened solids are digested in
autothermal thermophilic aerobic digesters and dewater ed with centrifuge s. The
Discharger hires a contract or to pick up the sludge for land application ,
composting , or landfill disposal .
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger directs all onsite stormwater to the
plant headworks for treatment ; therefore, coverage under the State Water
Board’s General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Dischargers Associated with
Industrial Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) is unnecessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger supplies tertiary treated effluent to the North
Coast County Water District. The District provides additional disinfection and
distributes the recycled water for golf course irrigation (east side of Sharp Park
Golf Course), athletic field irrigation ( Fairway Park), school facility irrigation
(Oceana High School and Ingrid B. Lacy Middle School), roadway landscape
irrigation ( Palmetto streetscape and Highway 1 median ) and operation of a
residential filling station. The District uses about 50 percent of its allocated
share of the Dis charger’s effluent. Opportunities to expand the recycled water
distribution system , such as potentially partnering with the San Francisco Public
Utilities Commission to irrigate the west side of Sharp Park Golf Course , are
under evaluation.
2.1.7.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrade s. By late fall of 2024 , the Discharger plans to design and
construct a new UV disinfection system that will include two channels, replacing
City of Pacifica Order R2 -2022 -0029
Calera Creek Water Recycling Plant NPDES Permi tCA00 38776
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5the existing one-channel system. During construction of this project, the
Discharger may use a temporary UV disinfection system or a temporary
chlorin ation and dechlorination disinfect ion system.
By June 30, 2027, the Discharger also anticipates complet ing a headworks
improvement project that will include replacing its grit removal system, replacing
the lining of the headworks influent channel, installing bar screens at the
treatment plant , and decommissioning the Discharger’s hypochlorite tank .
Other projects scheduled for the next permit te rm include u pgrading the roof
covering the digester t anks and replac ing the solar panels with more efficient
technology.
2.2. Discharge Points and