Facility Description and Discharge Location
2. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the East Brother Light Station, located
on East Brother Island in Contra Costa Count y, approximately 1,000 feet west of Point San
Pablo in San Pablo Bay (Attachment 1). East Br other Light Station is a former lighthouse that
became operational in 1874. The U.S. Coast Guard assumed responsibility for the lighthouse in
1939. In 1960, the U.S. Coast Guard announced that the lighthouse would be automated, which
would require demolition of the original structures. In 1971, the lighthouse was placed on the
National Register of Historic Pl aces, and in 1979, East Brother Light Station, Inc., a non-profit
agency, was formed to restore the landmark a nd make it accessible to the public. East Brother
Light Station is designated a St ate of California Registered Hist oric Landmark and is listed on
the National Register of Historic Places. The U.S. Coast Guard leases East Brother Island to the
Discharger at no cost. The Discharger has rest ored the light station and generates funds to
maintain it by operating a bed and breakfa st in the former keeper’s quarters.
 3. Sanitary Wastewater. The Discharger uses an average of 1,700 gallons of fresh water per
week, which originates as rainwater and is st ored in a cistern. A dditional fresh water is
delivered by barge on an as-needed basis. Fresh water is used for cooking, dishwashing,
showering, and flushing toilets, producing be tween 50 and 100 gallons per day (gpd) of
domestic wastewater.
The wastewater is treated by a 1,250-gallon se ptic tank that provides anaerobic primary
treatment and settling, a septic ta nk effluent filter, and a 200-squa re foot intermittent sand filter
system, including a 750-gallon pump/dosing tank and a supplemental air injection system,
which provides aerobic secondary treatment. Effluent is then disinfected by ultraviolet (UV)
light treatment prior to discharge to San Pablo Bay. The treatment system has a design capacity
Order No. R2-2010-0113 1
East Brother Light Station, Inc.
of 250 gpd (average daily discharge flow rate). The maximum, minimum, and average flow
rates for January 2008 through April 2009 were 88.5 gpd, 13.5 gpd, and 66.1 gpd, respectively.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes for the following quarter.
 6. Annual Reports: The Discharger shall submit an annua l report to the Regional Water Board by
February 1 of each year. The re port shall include the following:

a. Transmittal Letter: The transmittal letter shall discuss a ny violations during the reporting period
and actions taken or planned to correct them. The transmittal letter shall be signed by the Discharger’s principal executive officer or his/ her duly authorized representative, and shall
include statements by the official, under penalty of perjury, that the reports are true and correct to
the best of the official’s knowledge.
 b. Compliance summary: A summary and analysis of th e compliance history and treatment
effectiveness over the past year.
 c. Management Plans: Summary reports of the Wastewater Disposal Plan, the Contingency Plan,
and Operations and Maintenance Manual as described in Provisions C.4, C.5, and C.6.
 7. Violation Reports: If the Discharger violat es requirements in this Orde r, it shall notify the Regional
Water Board by telephone or email as soon as pract icable once it has knowledge of the violation.
Depending on violation severity, Regional Water Boar d staff may require the Discharger to submit a
separate technical report on the viol ation within five working days of telephone or em ail notification.
 8. Recordkeeping: The Discharger, or his or her agent, sh all retain the data generated for the above
reports, including lab results and quality assurance/ quality control data, for a minimum of six years
after origination and shall make them availa ble to the Regional Wa ter Board upon request.
 9. Self-Monitoring Program Revisions: The Executive Officer may revise this Self-Monitoring
Program, either on his or her own initiative or at th e request of the Discharger. Prior to revising the
Self-Monitoring Program, the Executive Officer will consider the burden, including costs, of
associated monitoring and reporting, rela tive to the benefits to be obtained.