1.5.1. Primary Treatment
Upgrades to septic tanks and grease traps occurred in 2023 during Phase 1. The Phase
1 upgrades to eliminate groundwater inflow and infiltration (I/I) in the collection system
included abandoning and replacing the existing concrete grease interceptors, septic
tanks, and lift station adjacent to the restaurant with new fiberglass tanks, including a
7,000- gallon Xerxes grease interceptor and a 15,000- gallon Xerxes combined septic
and pump tank (5,000- gallon septic and 10,000- gallon pump tanks) . The risers of the
restaurant sludge tanks and residential septic tanks were also replaced and resealed to
further reduce I/I.
 The new grease interceptor tank and combined septic/pump tank from the Phase 1
upgrade will remain in place and continue to serve as primary treatment for the
restaurant. The septic tanks and pump tanks for the existing residence (1,200- gallon
septic tank and 500- gallon pump tank) and guesthouse (1,500 -gallon septic tank and
810-gallon pump tank) will be inspected and remain in place and continue to serve as
primary treatment for the residences.
 Sanitary wastewater flows by gravity to the 15,000 -gallon combined septic/pump tank .
Kitchen wastewater flows by gravity first to the 7,000- gallon grease interceptor, then to
the 15,000- gallon combined septic/pump tank where the kitchen wastewater combines
with the sanitary wastewater.

Primary -treated effluent from the combined septic/pump tank and residential and guest
house septic tanks is pumped to the existing treatment tank for secondary treatment ,
described in section 1.5. 2.

The dosing compartment of the 15,000 -gallon combination septic/pump tank is
equipped with duplex submersible pumps (Goulds Model 3887 BHF No. WS1012BHF )
as well as floats for pump controls and high water level alarm. The floats are connected
to a SCADA system with an alert system and pump controls .
1.5.2. Secondary Treatment
The existing treatment train will be upgraded during Phase 2. The existing above ground
MBR structure will be retained and repurposed. The MBR membrane s, pumps, and
diffusers will be removed and the MBR tank (treatment tank ) will remain in place . Two
new Orenco AdvanT ex® AX100 treatment units (AX100 units) , designed for blackwater
and restaurant waste, will be installed above- ground. The combined septic tank effluent
from the site will be pumped to the system, through an existing two- millimeter perforated
screen. The screened influent will first enter the 7,000- gallon pre-anoxic chamber of the
treatment tank . In addition to the septic tank effluent, a mixed liquor recirculation stream
from the AX100 treatment units will also enter the anoxic zone f or denitrification. Effluent
from the pre-anoxic chamber of the treatment tank will flow over an existing weir inside
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014- 0153 -DWQ
Page 7 of 18 the treatment tank into the 13,000- gallon aeration chamber for biological oxygen
demand (BOD) removal and nitrification.

The existing pump that transfers aeration chamber effluent to the membrane chamber
will be removed. The existing 3,000- gallon membrane chamber of the treatment tank will
remain as a primary post -aeration settling chamber . Effluent from the a eration chamber
will be conveyed to this post -aeration settling chamber (the prior membrane chamber )
via an existing overflow connection. Effluent from the settling chamber will be conveyed
to the new Orenco AX100 system via an existing overflow connection to the sludge
tanks.

The existing blower serving the a eration chamber will be replaced with a modern, high
efficiency, low noise blower. The existing diffusers will be inspected and replaced if
necessary. The aeration process will reduce BOD of the mixed liquor to less than 220
milligrams per liter ( mg/L ). This is the maximum mass loading for final treatment in two
Orenco AX100 u nits, per specifications provided by Orenco.

The two new AX100 units will be installed above- ground, adjacent to the four existing
5,000- gallon sludge tanks. Two of the sludge tanks will be disconnected from the
existing system, pumped, and tested for watertightness. One sludge tank will be
repurposed as an additional settling tank for the secondary -treated effluent from the
settling chamber of the treatment tank. This will allow suspended solids to settle out
before gravity flowing to the second sludge tank, which will be repurposed as a
recirculatio n tank for the AX100 units . A portion of the water pumped from the
recirculation tank will be diverted back to the pre-anoxic chamber for advanced
denitrification. The remainder will cycle through the AX100 units , which will provide
additional BOD removal and denitrification. Distribution between the pre-anoxic
chamber and the AX100 units will be controlled by balancing valves and monitored by
flow meters. This will allow the operator to adjust the recirculation rate as needed .
Recirculation will be controlled by two 50 gallon per minute, 0.75 Horsepower pumps .

Recirculation through the AX100 units will reduce BOD and total suspended solids
(TSS) in the polished effluent to less than 30 mg/L, suitable levels for subsurface drip
dispersal. The upgraded system is expected to reduce total nitrogen (TN) by a minimum
of 50 percent.

Effluent from the AX100 units will pass through a recirculating splitter valve in the
recirculation tank and be conveyed to the existing 5,000- gallon pump tank for timed
dosing to the existing GeoFlow subsurface drip dispersal field. Pump tank effluent will
pass through a new Sanitron® ultraviolet (UV) system for disinfection prior to dispersal
to the existing field.
 The two remaining 5,000- gallon sludge tanks will remain as emergency overflow tanks
for the upgraded treatment system. The system has an alarm float that indicates when
the tank is half full.
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014- 0153 -DWQ
Page 8 of 18 1.5.3. Disinfection System
Disinfection will be provided by a new 280-watt Sanitron® S5000C Ultraviolet (UV) unit .
The Sanitron UV unit will be installed in -line between the dosing tank outlet and the
Geoflow field, providing continuous disinfection for all flows to the field. The Sanitron UV
unit is recommended for flows up to 30 gallons per minute.
1.5.4. Subs urface Dispersal System
Treated wastewater is discharged to land in a dedicated land dispersal area located on the facility site, behind, southwest of the restaurant building and associated adjacent
vehicle parking area. The dispersal area is about 40,000 square feet (sf). The area was
graded in 2004 to create an elevated constant -shallow -slope area for the dispersal
system. Following initial grading, a bed of uncompacted imported loam soil of 18 to 36
inches deep was placed over native soil. The dispersal system pipe networ k was laid
out within the imported soil. The area was seeded and mulched after construction. The finished area is a grass -vegetated field of constant shallow slope (0.5 percent), sloping
from the southwest to the northeast, with associated steeper sloping edges. The effluent
dispersal system is comprised of a subsurface pressurized pipe network of proprietary manufactured tubing with built -in ‘drip’ emitters (Geoflow
TM Subsurface Dripline),
installed within the dispersal area.
 The subsurface drip dispersal system will be upgraded during Phase 3. Phase 3
upgrades include replacing the Geoflow subsurface drip tubing and adding soil to the
existing dispersal field to increase separation to the seasonally high groundwater table.
Two complete Geoflow dispersal fields will be built, one to serve as the primary
dispersal field and one to serve as the reserve area (Reserve Area 1) . Dispersal lines
will be installed with two -foot spacing between adjacent lines below the finished surface
grade. Emitters will be located at two- foot intervals along each line. The treated effluent
from the AX100 units, as installed in P hase 2, will be discharged into the existing 5,000 -
gallon dosing tank which will then discharge into the proposed Geoflow subsurface disposal system.

A septic site evaluation conducted in 2021 found 24 inches of suitable soil above the
limiting condition (mottling). Therefore, the new Geoflow subsurface drip tubing will be
placed at existing grade. Nine inches of suitable fill soil will be added over the primary
and reserve areas, to allow for settlement, and will result in a minimum of 30 inches of
suitable soil per Napa County standards. Based on the limited depth of suitable soils
found on site, the septic system will be an engineered subsurface drip sy stem with
pretreatment consistent with Napa County requirements. The new primary Geoflow
dispersal system will be placed over test pits 1, 2, and 3from the 2021 site evaluation.
The 100 percent Reserve Area 1 will be placed over test pits 3, 4 , and 6 from the 2021
site evaluation.
 The subsurface dispersal field was originally sized at an estimated application rate of
0.1 gallon per day per square foot (gpd/sf), allowing 4,000 gpd to be pumped to into the 40,000- sf dispersal field, which was the overall design constraint of the capacity of the
system. The 2021 site evaluation and 2023 percolation tests of the native subgrade
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014- 0153 -DWQ
Page 9 of 18 found the allowable application rate to be 0.4 gpd/sf, and that the actual capacity of the
existing dispersal field is 16,000 gpd, which is four times greater than the original
assumed application rate. The Phase 3 plans propose an increase in the soil application
rate from 0.1 to 0.3 gpd/sf. Although higher than the original soil application rate, the
proposed soil application rate of 0.3 gpd/sf is more conservative than the 0.4 gpd/sf
maximum application rate determined at the 2021 site evaluation or found in the native
subgrade during the percolation test .

As noted in section 1. 3, no reserve area was required in the Individual Order. Although
this Notice approves an increased application rate based on updated site evaluations ,
100 percent reserve area is now required. The maximum discharge to the dispersal field
is limited to 4,000 gpd and will remain until the pending Napa County Use Permit (P22-
00004) is approved.

Based on Napa County requirements, a second 100 percent reserve area (Reserve
Area 2) is identified in the Phase 3 plans, northwest of the subsurface dispersal field.
This area will be prohibited from development by the pending Napa County Use Permit,
but will not be constructed as part of the Phase 3 plans. If use of Reserve Area 2 is
needed in the future, Discharger shall submit an updated Report of Waste Discharge as
described in section 5.2.

Treated effluent will flow to the existing 5,000 -gallon dosing tank, for final dispersal to
the Geoflow dispersal field. The Geoflow system will be evenly time -dosed over the
entire 24- hour day. The Vcom Control Panel supplied with the AX100 units will control
distribution. Flow meters will be installed in the supply and return manifolds to measure
the volume of flow discharged to the Geoflow system and the field flush flow returned to
the dosing tank. The net discharge will be calculated as the difference between the two-
meter readings.
 Two monitoring wells will be installed within each zone of both the primary dispersal field
and Reserve Area 1, consistent with Napa County standards. In addition, one
monitoring well will be installed 25 feet away from all sides of the primary and reserve
dispersal fields , for a total of 3 0 monitoring wells . Monitoring wells will be observed twice
annually as noted in section 13(g)(2) of the Napa County Alternate Sewage Treatment
System Monitoring Program. The depth to groundwater will be measured and eval uated.
If groundwater is observed within 24 inches of the installed Geoflow lines, samples will
be collected from all 30 wells for total and fecal coliform analysis . Monitoring
requirements for the dispersal field monitoring wells are included in the Subsurface
Disposal Area section of the MRP.

The existing monitoring wells , GW-1, GW -3, and GW -4A, shall be maintained for
groundwater monitoring until the new monitoring wells are installed .
2. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA)
The transition of permit coverage for this existing Facility from the Individual Order to the General Order, with no expansion of capacity, is categorically exempt from the
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014- 0153 -DWQ
Page 10 of 18 CEQA pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14 (14 CCR) , section s 15301
(ongoing or existing projects), 15302 (replacement or reconstruction of existing utility
systems), and 15303 (new construction or conversion of small structures). There is a
pending application for Use Permit P22- 00004 with Napa County to increase total
seating to 100 from 60 seats, add outdoor dining, and increase the peak wastewater
flows to 5,310 gpd from 4,000 gpd. The County is currently performing further CEQA
evaluation of the proposed project. Should the project be approved, this N otice will be
updated.

Past CEQA actions at the Facility include:
• On June 3,1987, the Napa County Conservation, Development and Planning Commission (NCCDPC) adopted a Negative Declaration for the proposed Crystal Valley Cellars (now Cosentino Winery) winery facility and the associated
proposed wastewater pond system. The Negative Declaration found that the
proposed project would not have a significant effect on the environment. The
project was subsequently modified to include the Mustards Grill restaurant and
wastewater facilities for both the winery and the restaurant.
• On March 22,1989, the NCCDPC approved a Use Permit for the modified
wastewater system project, and a finding that the project is categorically exempt from CEQA, pursuant to 14 CCR s ection 15302 (Class 2 Categorical Exemption -
Replacement or Reconstruction of Existing Facilities).
• On May 4,2005, the NCCDPC approved a Negative Declaration for the proposed
project to dismantle parts of the existing joint wastewater system used by
Mustards Gill and Cosentino Winery, and establish a new wastewater system for
Mustard Grill (Mustards Grill Use Permit (#03460- UP) Negative Declaration). The
Negative Decla ration include d mitigation measures and determinations that, with
incorporation of those measures, environmental impacts of the project would be
less than significant. A Notice of Determinat ion, dated May 26,2005, was filed by
NCCDP Department (State Clearinghouse Number 2005042012). Water Board
staff reviewed the Negative Declaration and found it to be acceptable prior to the
Water Board issuing the Individual Permit in 2006.
3. SITE REQUIREMENTS AND

===PLANNED CHANGES===

