Mr. Matthew Adamec - 4 - August 27, 2025
systems. Table 1 of this NOA provides a summary of applicable discharge requirements
for the Facility.
Facility managers and operators must be familiar with the applicable requirements
contained in the General Order, this NOA, and MRP R1 -2025-0026 .
A copy of the General Order is enclosed with this NOA. The General Order is also
available on State Water Resources Control Board website
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/board_decisions/adopted_orders/water_quality/2014/
wqo2014_0153_dwq.pdf ).
B. Septic Tanks
The Facility includes three septic tank s that provide primary treatment of the
wastewater. The septic tank s require proper operation, maintenance, and monitoring in
order to provide adequate and reliable wastewater service. This includes periodic
inspection and removal, as needed, of accumulated solids. General Order Section B.2,
Septic Systems, and the enclosed MRP, at section III, Septic Tank Monitoring , include
requirements for the septic tank s. Qualified service providers may conduct operational
mainten ance and monitoring on the septic system with appropriate oversight by the
Discharger . The Discharger is responsible for ensuring proper operation, maintenance,
and monitoring of the septic tank s.
C. Subsurface Disposal System Requirements
The Facility’s wastewater treatment/disposal process includes dispersal of treated
effluent to subsurface soil via a conventional leach field system . Subsurface disposal
systems shall hold in reserve sufficient land area for possible future 100 -percent
replacement of the subsurface disposal system or establish an equivalent contingency
that is approved by the Regional Water Board’s Executive Office r. If less than 100 -
percent replacement area was previously permitted under existing individual WDRs,
WQO 97 -10-DWQ, or a local agency permit, the minimum reserve area previously
permitted shall be maintained.
Per the General Order, b urrowing animals active in areas that may result in wastewater
leakage from an at -grade or above grade (mound) disposal system shall be promptly
controlled and repairs to the disposal system completed as soon as possible .
D. Nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

