WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
Little Bear WWTP is a Class II aerated p ond system. The treatment and disposal
system is composed of a primary treatment pond (Pond 1), secondary treatment pond
(Pond 2), polishing pond (Pond 3) , effluent pond (Sprayfield Pond) and spray fields. The
wastew ater gravity flows from the Pine Canyon community to the WWTP and through
the pond system. After the polishing pond (Pond 3), wastewater is pumped five miles
away to the effluent pond (Sprayfield Pond) where the effluent is then disposed of on an
11-acre s pray field. The WWTP is adjacent to Pine Canyon Creek and multiple sewer
pipelines and effluent pipelines run across the creek.
A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. Capacity information was obtained from the treatment plant classification form, if there is more current information, Little Bear must submit the information to Central Coast Water Board. A
facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Pond Treatment, Disposal Technologies, and Capacity
Permitted Design
Flows Design Influent Maximum Daily Flow : 124,000 gpd
Influent Average Monthly Flow: 90,000 gpd
Headworks/Preliminary Treatment Influent flows via gravity to Pond 1 where it is metered
prior to entering the pond. There is no preliminary
treatment (no screening) .
Primary and Secondary Treatment Primary treatment occurs in Pond 1 , which is described in
the treatment plant classification form as being 1,115,000
gallons , 12 feet deep, and is mixed and aerated. Effluent
from Pond 1 flows via gravity to Pond 2. Secondary
treatment occurs in Pond 2 , which is described in the
treatment plant classification form as being 1,440,000 gallons , 17 feet deep , and is mixed and aerated. Flow from
Pond 2 passes to Pond 3 via gravity. Pond 3 provides some additional treatment in the form of polishing.

The ponds are not synthetically lined, and their
permeability is unknown .
Efflu ent Storage Effluent from Pond 3 is pumped via force main to an
effluent storage pond ( Sprayfield Pond) with a n estimated
capacity of 1,3 00,000 gallons five miles from the treatment
facility.
Disposal Effluent disposal consists of two spray fields areas with a
combined surface area of 11 acres.
Little Bear September 28, 2023
Attachment 1
3 Biosolids/Sludge
Production and Handling As stated in the General Permit application, s olids are
stored within the ponds until removed by special pumping events.

As of the date of this notice of applicability , Little Bear has
never reported any sludge removal .


3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Little Bear must operate the facility in accordance with the General Permit4 and this
notice of applicability.5 Little Bear must operate the WWTP to comply with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

