The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal system. The collection system is composed of approximately 1.6 miles of
predominately 6 -inch diameter pipe. The existing treatment plant has been in
operation since 1961 and is considered a secondary treatment facility. The
treatment system c onsists of a comminutor, a 90,000 -gallon equalization basin,
four activated sludge tanks, four clarifiers, a chlorine contact chamber, and
dechlorination. Wastewater is discharged via an 800 -foot ocean outfall at
Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States. The
minimum initial dilution ratio of seawater to effluent is 115:1.
A tertiary treatment package unit was constructed in 2012 to provide recycled
water for irrigation use within the service area.
Biosolids from the clarifiers are pumped to a spare aeration basin which is used as
an aerobic digester. When solids concentration exceeds 2 percent, the contents
are pumped to another sludge storage tank. Approximately once per month, 6,000
gallons of the concentrated biosolids are t rucked to Liberty Composting, Lost Hills,
California for disposal.
This Order provides the option for the Discharger to develop a hauled saline waste
program that will allow it to accept and discharge concentrates from water filtration
systems such as reverse osmosis or ion exchange treatment systems via
Discharge Point 001. . Prior to discharging hauled saline waste through the ocean
outfall, the Discharger must submit a hauled saline waste disposal study to the
Executive Officer for their approval .7This Order authorizes such discharges and
implements development of a hauled saline waste study and institutes monitoring
and reporting of hauled saline waste wastes.
Historic flows observed at the Facility during the term of the previous Order are
summarize d below
6 The drinking water filtration system reverse osmosis unit runs only on days when
chloride levels in groundwater exceeds 250 mg/L. Historically, the maximum flow rate
and number of days flow is present, respectively, is 9,000 gallons per day and 26
days per year .
7 Central Coast Water Board staff will convene a techni cal advisory group to review the
hauled saline waste study and provide comments to the Executive Officer. California
Coastal Commission, Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, California Fish and
Wildlife, and California State Parks will be invited to par ticipate in the technical
advisory group .
SAN SIMEON ORDER NO. R3 -2022 -0003
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047961
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Potential changes to the facility include the addition of storage and disposal
facilities associated with implementation of the hauled saline waste disposal
program. There are no other planned changes at the facility for the duration of this
permit term.
3.