Facility also receives waste solids from the South Bay Water Reclamation Plant
(SBWRP ) and flow and pollutants from low -flow urban runoff diversion systems and
"first flush" industrial stormwater diversion systems .
The Facility provides 240 MGD of chemically -enhanced primary treatment capacity.
The treatment train consists of five influent screens, chemical injection (ferric chloride
occurs in the Parshall flumes, and anionic polymer is added in the individual flumes
to the sedimentation tanks), six aerated grit chambers, 12 primary sedimentation
basins, partial disinfection using sodium hypochlorite injection , and final screening .
Increased TSS removal is largely attributed to the Discharger's implementation of an
integrated system -wide chemical addition approach. The Discharger has proceeded
with phased implementation of a proprietary technology called Peroxide Regenerated
Iron S ulfide Control. The Discharger may pursue other similar methodologies to
provide equivalent control of sulfides in the future. On-site solids treatment at the
Facility consists of anaerobic sludge digestion. Dewatered solids are beneficially
used as an alternate daily cover at a landfill or as a soil amendment. Digested sludge
is transported via pipeline to MBC for dewatering and disposal. Screenings, grit, and
scum are trucked to a landfill for disposal.
Chlorinated advanced primary -treated wastewater is discharged through the PLOO to
the Pacific Ocean, approximately 4.5 miles offshore. Although this is beyond the limit
of the ocean waters of the State, potential plume migration within the ocean waters of
the State warrants joint regulation of the effl uent. USEPA has primary regulatory
responsibility for the discharge. However, in 1984, a Memorandum of Understanding
was signed between USEPA and the State of California to jointly administer
discharges that a re granted modifications from secondary treatment standards.
Under California's Porter -Cologne Water Quality Control Act, the San Diego Water
Board issues WDRs which serve as an NPDES permit.
2.2 Description of San Diego Metropolitan Sewerage System (Metro System)
As stated above, t he Facility serves as the terminal treatment facility of the Metro
System. The Metro System collects and treats wastewater from the City of San Diego
and 12 participating agencies (listed in Table F- 2 below) w ithin a 450 -square mile
service area throughout San Diego County. Approximately 70 percent of the total
Metro System flows are from the City of San Diego . The remaining flow s feed into the
Metro System from the 12 participating agencies.
City of San Diego ORDER NO. R9 -2026 -0002
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit No. C A0107 409
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6Table F -2. Sewage Collection Systems that Feed into the Metro System
Municipalities Water/Wastewater
DistrictsSanitation/Maintenance
Districts
City of Chula Vista
City of Coronado
City of Del Mar
City of El Cajon
City of Imperial Beach
City of La Mesa
City of National City
City of PowayOtay Water District
Padre Dam Municipal
Water DistrictLemon Grove Sanitation
District
San Diego County
(Includes the East Otay
Mesa, Lakeside, Alpine,
Spring Valley, and
Wintergardens Service
Areas)
The Metro System include s the Facilities [ Facility, MBC, PLOO, Discharger’s sewage
co
llection system, and other associated infrastructure (e.g., sludge pipelines)] ,
wastewater treatment and water recycling plants, and ocean outfalls .
Map 1 in Attachment B of this Order and Permit provides the boundaries of
participating agencies and Metro System . Flow schematics 2 and 3 in Attachment C
of this Order and Permit provide schematics of the M etro System . The Metro System
include s:
2.2.1 M
etropolitan Biosolids Center (MBC)
MBC is located on Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. MBC provides dewatering of
sludge from the Facility and thickening, anaerobic digestion, and dewatering of
sludge from the NCWRP. Dewatered solids are beneficially used as an alternate
daily cover at a la ndfill or as a soil amendment.
2.2.2 Point Loma Ocean Outfall ( PLOO ) - See section 2.3 in this Fact Sheet below.
2.2.3 Sanitary Sewer System
The Discharger owns and operates the Metro System collection, treatment, and
effluent disposal facilities , including the sewer interceptors and pump stations .
The sanitary sewer systems that discharge to the Metro System are owned and
operated by the respective participating agencies.
2.2.3.1 Pump Station 1
Pump Station No. 1 conveys wastewater from the southern portion of the Metro
System through the South Metro Interceptor to Pump Station No. 2. Pump
Station No. 1 has a pumping capacity of approximately 1 50 MGD and receives
ferrous chloride, sodium hydroxide, and sodium hypochlorite for odor and sulfide
control. Additionally, Pump Station No. 1 provides initial screening via two
tr
aveling screens to remove solids .
City of San Diego ORDER NO. R9 -2026 -0002
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit No. C A0107 409
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-72.2.3.2 Pump Station 2
Pump Station No.2 receives wastewater from the north, south, and central
regions of the Metro System service area and conveys all influent to the Facility.
Pump Station No. 2 also provides initial screening and chemical addition
(hydrogen peroxide, sodium hydroxide, and sodium hypochlorite for odor and
sulfide control and to assist in coagulation/sedimentation at the Facility). Pump
Station No. 2 has a pumping capacity of approximately 432 MGD. Pump Station
No. 2 discharges wastewater to the east portal of the Point Loma Tunnel
through two 87 -inch diameter force mains, respectively 2.9 and 2.7 miles long.
One force main follows a land route while the second force main is routed
underneath San Diego Bay. The Point Loma Tunnel conveys wa stewater to the
Facility under the Point Loma peninsula.
2.2.4 North City Water Reclamation Plant (NCWRP)
The NCWRP has a design capacity of 30 MGD and is an advanced wastewater
treatment facility capable of producing tertiary -treated recycled water that
complies with the requirements of title 22, division 4, chapter 3 of the CCRs (Title
22 Regulations). Disch arges of tertiary -treated recycled water from the NCWRP
are regulated under separate WDRs1. Excess recycled water, secondary -treated
effluent, and plant waste streams from NCWRP are returned to the sewer for
transport to the Facility for additional treatment. Waste solids removed during
treatment at NCWRP are directed to the Metropolitan Biosol ids Center for
treatment and use or disposal.
2.2.5 North City Pure Water Facility (NCPW F )
NCPW F is under construction for Pure Water Phase 1 and is expected to be in
operation by the end of calendar year 2027. Discharges of advanced treated recycled
water from the NCWRP and NCPWF will be regulated under separate WDRs2.
2.2.6 South Bay Water Reclamation Plant (SBWRP)
The SBWRP has a tertiary design capacity of 15 MGD and a hydraulic capacity of
18 MGD. SBWRP is an advanced wastewater treatment facility producing recycled
water that complies with Title 22 Regulations for customers within the South Bay
region. Excess recycled water and secondary -treated effluent is directed to the
South Bay Ocean Outfall. Waste solids are directed to the Facility through the
South Metro Interceptor and Pump Stations Nos. 1 and 2, for treatme nt and
removal. Discharges from the SBWRP are regulated under separate WDRs.3
1Order No. R9 -2015 -0091, Master Recycling Permit for the City of San Diego North City Water Reclamation
Plant, San Diego County , adopted by the San Diego Water Board on December 16, 2015.
2Order No. R9 -2020 -0001 As Amended By Order No. R9 -2020 -0183 NPDES No. CA0109398 Waste
Discharge Requirements For The City Of San Diego North City Water Reclamation Plant And Pure Water
Facility, Indirect Potable Reuse Reservoir Water Augmentation Discharge To Miramar Reservoir San Diego
County , adopted and amended by the San Diego Water Board on May 13 and August 12, 2020, respectively.
3Order No. R9 -2021 -0 011, NPDES No. CA0109045, Waste Discharge Requirements for the City of San
Diego South Bay Water Reclamation Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean through the South Bay Ocean
Outfall was adopted by the San Diego Water Board on May 12, 2021.
Order No. R9 -2021 -0015 , Master Recycling Permit for City of San Diego, South Bay Water Reclamation
Plant, San Diego County was adopted by the San Diego Water Board on June 9, 2021.
City of San Diego ORDER NO. R9 -2026 -0002
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit No. C A0107 409
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-82.2.7 South Bay Ocean Outfall (SBOO)
The SBOO is jointly owned by the United States Section of the International
Boundary and Water Commission (USIBWC) and the Discharger. The outfall
discharges secondary - and tertiary -treated wastewater from the SBWRP and
secondary -treated wastewater from th e USIBWC South Bay International
Wastewater Treatment Plant. The outfall has an average daily flow capacity of
174 MGD and a peak flow of 333 MGD. The SBOO discharges wastewater
approximately 3.5 miles off the coast of the International Border at a depth of
approximately 95 feet. Discharges from the SBOO are regulated under separate
WDRs.7,4
2.2.8 Emergency Connection
In November 1965, the governments of the United States and Mexico agreed to
construct, operate, and maintain an emergency connection from the sewage
system of the City of Tijuana, Baja California to the Metro System, as an
additional measure of safety to protect United States lands and waters from an
upset or shutdown in the sewage system of the City of Tijuana (IBWC Minute No.
222 between the United States and Mexican sections of the International
Boundary and Water Commission5). During the period when it was operational, up
to 13 MGD of sewage could be transferred from the sewage system of the City of
Tijuana to the Metro System through the Emergency Connection with treatment
and disposal at the Discharger’s Facility and discharge through the PLOO. The
Emergency Connection was used daily throughout the 1980s and early 1990s and
intermittently while the SBOO was still under construction. The Emergency
Connection was last used on October 15, 2000; construction of the SBOO
eliminated the need for continued use of the Emergency Connection. According to
the Discharger, this emerge ncy connection still exists but is not currently used. If
the Discharger is requested to accept wastewater originating in Tijuana, Mexico,
treated or untreated during the term of this Order and Permit , such acceptance
would be contingent upon an agreement acceptable to the San Diego Water
Board, USEPA , and the Discharger. The total suspended solids ( TSS)
contribution from that flow would not be counted toward the Discharger’s mass
emission limit(s).
4Order No. R9 -2021 -0001, As Amended by Order No. R9 -2023 -0009, NPDES No. CA0108928, Waste
Discharge Requirements for the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean through the South Bay
Ocean Outfall was adopted by the San Diego Water Board on May 12, 2021, and amended on March 8,
2023.
5Minute No. 222 - Emergency Connection of the Sewage System of the City of Tijuana, Baja California to
the Metropolitan Sewage System of the City Of San Diego, California , approved by United States on
December 20, 1965, approved by Mexico on December 7, 1967, available at
http://www.ibwc.gov/Files/Minutes/Min222.pdf (as of August 22, 2016).
City of San Diego ORDER NO. R9 -2026 -0002
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit No. C A0107 409
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-92.3 Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
2.6.1 Pure Water San Diego . The Previous Order and Permit included the Discharger’s
commitment to implementing a comprehensive water reuse program called “Pure
Water San Diego” (also referred to as Pure Water Program). Pure Water San
Diego is a long -term program that will provide a safe, reliable, and cost -effective
potable water supply for San Diego through the application of advanced treatment
technology to purify recycled water. As such the Pure Water San Diego Program
is a joint water and wastewater fac ilities plan with the goal of producing water
suitable for potable reuse, while significantly reducing and improving the
discharge to the ocean from the Facility . As part of this plan, wastewater normally
City of San Diego ORDER NO. R9 -2026 -0002
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit No. C A0107 409
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-14directed to the Facility will be diverted to upstream treatment facilities where
purified water will be produced. Pure Water San Diego is being implemented in
two phases: Phase 1, the North City Pure Water Project and Phase 2, the Central
Area Project.
Phase 1 advanced treatment facilities, the NCPWF, will be co -located with the
North City Water Reclamation Plant (NCWRP ). Construction of Phase 1 facilities,
including pipelines, pump stations, and treatment processes, has begun. Purified
water will eventually be delivered to Miramar Reservoir , as regulated under a
separate NPDES Permit .6Full operation of Phase 1 is expected to begin by
December 31, 2027. Once operational, Phase 1 will remove 52 MGD of
wastewater that would otherwise have been directed to the Facility and produce
30 MGD of purified water suitable for potable reuse, as well as 12 MGD of
recycled water for irrigation and other uses.
Phase 2 (Central Area Project) is in the planning stages. The planning stages of
the Central Area Project include siting of the facilities, selecting the discharge
location, determining regulatory requirements, and constructing and operating a
demonstratio n facility. The Central Area Project is being designed to produce up
to 53 MGD of purified water, for a cumulative total of 83 MGD by December 31,
2035 , and may take into account production of water suitable for potable reuse
occurring at all treatment pro cesses for wastewater upstream from and at the
Facility .
Tasks for Pure Water San Diego Phase 1 and Phase 2, which were provided in
the Discharger’s ROWD, have been included in section 6.3.6 of this Order and
Permit .
2.6.2 Brine Discharges from SBWRP. In 2014 , the Discharger added two Electrodialysis
reversal (EDR) units at the SBWRP to reduce total dissolved solids (TDS),
chloride, and sodium levels in the recycled water . Due to reliability and
maintenance issues with the EDR units and in anticipation of increased recycled
water demand, the Discharger has elected to install an microfiltrat ion/ reverse
osmosis ( MF/RO ) system, as it is a more effective and reliable treatment method.
Currently, the EDR waste stream or EDR reject water is combined with waste
solids and returned to the sewage collection system that is routed to the Facility
for treatment and subsequent discharge through the Point Loma Ocean Outfall.
The project at SBWRP is being designed so that the future MF/RO waste stream
or RO concentrate generated at SBWRP will no longer be pumped with waste
solids to the Facility for treatment in the manner described above. The
Discharger ’s intent is to discharge the MF/RO concentrate through the South Bay
Ocean Outfall under a separate WDRs (Order No. R9 -2021 -0011). This approach
6Order No. R9 -2020 -0001 as amended by Order No. R9 -2020 -0183 NPDES No. CA0109398, Waste
Discharge Requirements for the City of San Diego North City Water Reclamation Plant and Pure Water
Facility, Indirect Potable Reuse Reservoir Water Augmentation Discharge to Miramar Reservoir San Diego
County was adopted by the San Diego Water Board on May 13, 2020, and amended on August 12, 2020 .
City of San Diego ORDER NO. R9 -2026 -0002
E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit No. C A0107 409
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-15will result in a change to the characteristics of the wastewater sent from SBWRP
to the Facility for treatment and discharge.
The project is currently anticipated to be completed in mid -2026 and may be
extended based on unforeseen circumstances, such as delays with permitting and
construction.
2.6.3 The Discharger is planning to divert stormwater flows from the Facility premises
back to the Facility headworks. Two of the storm drains that will divert stormwater
flows to the Facility will be downstream of the Facility’s flowmeter and the influent
monitoring station (INF -001). According to the Disch arger, the stormwater flows
are only expected to make up about 0.65% of the Facility’s total influent flow in a
heavy storm. Due to the location of the storm drains/outfalls, the Discharger
stated that installing a flow meter is challenging. The descriptio n of Monitoring
Location INF -001 has been modified to account for the planned stormwater
diversion.
3