1. Location and Service Area
a. Facility. The existing wastewater treatment plant is located at 1220 Avenue M on
Treasure Island in San Francisco . It provides secondary treatment o f domestic and
commercial wastewater from Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island, located in
San Francisco Bay . The Facility serves a population of approximately 2,500. A
few commercial facilities exist within the Facility’s service area, but no
manufacturing industries.
b. Planned Facility. The Treasure Island Water Resource Recovery Facility will be
located adjacent to the existing pla nt and will provide tertiary treatment of
wastewater from Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island. The Planned Facility is
anticipated to serve 8,000 homes, up to three hotels, and various restaurants,
retail, and outdoor recreation and entertainment venues .
2. Collection System s
a. Facility . Treasure Island has separate stormwater and sanitary sewer system s. The
Discharger transferred ownership of approximately 70 percent of the former
Treasure Island naval base, including the underlying collection system, to TIDA
between May 2015 and October 2019. The portions of collection system owned by the Discharger and TIDA are both subject to the statewide WDRs described in Provision VI.C.4.b.
The entire wastewater collection system , including the separate portions owned
by the U.S. Navy and TIDA, consists of approximately 15 miles of gravity sewer
mains and 4 miles of force mains, with pipes ranging in diameter from 4 to 36
inches. Pipeline materials include cast iron, plastic, vitrified clay, and asbestos
cement. In addition to gravity sewers, the system includes 25 sanitary sewer pump
stations, two of which are on Yer ba Buena Island. Wastewater from the southern
portion of Yerba Buena Island flows to Treasure Island through a 6- inch
submarine force main. Wastewater from the northern portion of Yerba Buena Island flows to Treasure Island through a 6 -inch gravity sewer.
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachm ent F – Fact Sheet F-6 b. Planned Facility . The Discharger expects to t ransfer the remainder of the former
nava l base to TIDA by 2022. TIDA plans to rehabilitate or replace the entire
collection system in phases as it redevelops the island . These upgrades began in
2018 and will con tinue over the next 15 to 20 years . Once TIDA completes the
upgrades, it will transfer the entire system to the City and County of San
Francisco.
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Facility. The existing wastewater treatment plant was initially constructed in
1961 to provide primary treatment and was later upgraded to provide secondary treatment and disinfection. The plant is now designed to provide secondary
treatment for an average of 2.0 million gallons per day (MGD). A s indicated in
the study “Improving Process Reliability and Performance Through Flow Equalization” (Nolte & Associates, April 1991), the plant can provide secondary treatment for up to 4.4 MGD during wet weather . From April 2015 through
November 201 9, daily in fluent flows ranged between 0.10 and 1.6 MGD, with an
average of 0.3 4 MGD.
Existing plant operations and processes include preliminary treatment with bar
screening and grit removal , primary treatment with primary sedimentation tanks ,
secondary treatment with trickling filters and secondary sedimentation ,
disinfection with sodium hypochlorite , and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite.
Treated wastewater is routed to Discharge Point No. 001.
b. Planned Facility. The Planned Facility will be designed to treat all wastewater to
tertiary treatment standards. It is being designed for an average dry weather flow
of 1.3 MGD and a peak wet weather flow of 3.9 MGD.
Planned Facility operations and processes are anticipated to include an
equalizatio n basin for storage of instantaneous peak flows; preliminary treatment,
including screening and grit removal; secondary treatment by means of a
membrane bioreactor (MBR), consisting of activated sludge biological process basins and submerged membrane filtr ation trains; and ultraviolet disinfection.
Effluent recycled for use onsite or distributed to other users will be chlorinated.
Effluent in excess of recycled water demands will not be chlorinated and will be
pumped to a constructed wetland adjacent to the new treatment plant for polishing
treatment. After wetland treatment, the treated effluent will be routed to
Discharge Point No. 002.
To adapt to rising sea levels, the Planned Facility will adher e to the City and
County of San Francisco’s Guidance for Incorporating Sea Level Rise into
Capital Planning in San Francisco. The Planned Facility will accommodate 39
inches of sea level rise, plus 6 inches of freeboard.
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachm ent F – Fact Sheet F-7 4. Sludge and Biosolids Management
Solids and sludge from the Facility are sent to Oceanside Water Pollution Control
Plant in San Francisco for treatment and disposal . Solids from the Planned Facility
will also be sent offsite, although the location has not yet been determined.
5. Recycl ing
a. Facility. T he Facility does not produce recycled wastewater .
b. Planned Facility. The Planned F acility will be designed to achieve the
disinfected tertiary treatment standards of California Code of Regulations, Title
22, Division 4, section 60301.230. The average annual recycled water demand is
anticipated to be 0.43 MGD, with a peak flow of 0.98 MGD. The recycled water
system will serve indoor and outdoor non- potable water demands, including
landscape irrigation, urban farming, and dual plumbing. Prior to recycl ing water
from the Planned F acility, the Discharger must apply for coverage under the State
Water Board’s Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use ( Order
No. WQ 2016- 0068- DDW).
6. Stormwater Management
a. Facility. All drains within the existing plant boundary convey stormwater flows
to the treatment plant headworks; however, some stormwater from within the plant boundary may also flow over land to storm drains outside of the treatment
plant perimeter. The Discharger maintains coverage for its stormwater discharges
through enrollment in the Phase II Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) Program, NPDES No. CAS000004.
b. Planned Facility. All onsite stormwater at the Planned Facility will be captured
in a catchment basin and conveyed to the plant headworks for treatment. Rainfall
onto the treatment wetlands will be captured and discharged.
B. Discharge Point s and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not supplemented

G. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not supplemented

H. Other Noncompliance – Not supplemented

I. Other Information – Not supplemented
 VI. STANDARD PROVISION – ENFORCEMENT – Not Supplemented
 VII. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – Not Supplemented
 VIII. DEFINITIONS – Addition to Attachment D

More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.

A. Arithmetic Calculations –
1. Geometric Mean . The antilog of the log mean or the back- transformed mean of the
logarithmically transformed variables, which is equivalent to the multiplication of the
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116