2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System . The plant provides secondary treatment
of wastewater from domestic, commercial, and industrial sources from the cities
of Alameda, Albany, Berkeley, Emeryville, Oakland, and Piedmont, and the
Stege Sanitary District (serving El Cerrito, Kensington, and par t of Richmond).
The population of the service area is about 7 40,000. Each of the cities and
Stege Sanitary District own and operate their own wastewater collection
system, collectively about 1,600 miles in length, which delivers wastewater to
the Discharge r’s interceptor. The interceptor transports wastewater to the plant.
The Discharger owns and operates its interceptor system, which has a total
length of 29 miles shared between the North Interceptor, South Interceptor,
Adeline Interceptor, South Foothill Interceptor, and Alameda Interceptor. These
interceptors have a combined hydraulic capacity of 760 MGD. The interceptor
system also includes 15 pump stations, 5 wet weather overflow structures, and
a 1-million -gallon wet weather storage basin along the Ala meda Interceptor.
Wet weather discharges from three wet weather facilities are regulated
separately under Order R2 -2025-0006 (NPDES permit CA0038440). The
Regional Water Board has also issued separate orders to seven local agencies
(cities of Alameda, Albany, Berkeley, Emeryville, Oakland, and Piedmont, and
Stege Sanitary District) that specify requirements prohibiting the over flow of
wastewater from each agency’s collection system.
Additionally, the plant receives brine from K2 Pure Solutions. The K2 facility
began operation in 2011 and produces chlorine gas in Pittsburg for Corteva
Agriscience. The production of chlorine gas relies on electrolysis to convert a
salt and water solutio n to chlorine gas. In producing chlorine gas, the K2 facility
generates brine with a total dissolved solids concentration of about 200,000
parts per million. K2 delivers the brine to a holding tank located on the plant
property. The brine then flows to the secondary effluent channel by gravity or
pump, as indicated in Attachment C. The maximum brine flow to the channel is
approximately 100 gallons per minute, based on the maximum pumping rate;
however, this may increase if K2 expands production. The current brine addition
point is downstream of the recycled water intake pumps. If added further
upstream, the brine’s salinity would affect the ability to produce recycled water.
East Bay Municipal Utility District Order R2 -2026-0003
Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA003 7702
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-52.1.2. Urban Runoff Diversion Project. In late 2017, the Discharger implemented
the Urban Runoff Diversion Project (URDP) on Ettie Street, as required by the
Consent Decree described in Fact Sheet section 4.1.3.2.2. The URDP provides
the ability to pump up to 0.5 million gallons per day of urb an runoff from the
Alameda County Flood Control & Water Conservation District stormwater
system to the plant. The project runs regularly during the dry season and
occasionally during dry periods of the wet season. Since its inception in 2017,
the URDP has diverted a total of 670 million gallons for treatment.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of odor
control, screening, grit removal, primary clarification, high purity oxygen
activated sludge, secondary clarification, disinfection, and dechlorination.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the tr eatment plant.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic.
During peak wet weather flows, the plant can accept up to 425 MGD of influent
by means of five 85 MGD influent pumps. Since the primary treatment design
capacity is 320 MGD, wet weather flows in excess of the primary treatment
capacity are stored onsite in an 11 -million -gallon wet weather concrete storage
basin and returned to the plant influent when flows subside. Primary effluent
may also be diverted around biological treatment, disinfected, and “blended”
with disinfected biologically treated effluent. Th e “blended” wastewater is then
dechlorinated prior to being discharged to Central San Francisco Bay through a
deepwater outfall. This discharge occurs only after fully using the maximum
biological treatment capacity, which is 168 MGD under optimal conditio ns.
During wet weather, diverted primary effluent flow can be up to 30 percent of
the total effluent flow. From 202 1 through 2024, the number of blending events
ranged from 2 to 10 per year and each lasted between 4 and 33 hours.
Blending in this manner is a type of bypass subject to Discharge Prohibition 3.3
of the Order and Attachment D section 1.7.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger treats sludge resulting
from treatment of both municipal wastewater and trucked -in wastes. The solids
handling process at the Facility includes gravity belt thicken ers, eleven
anaerobic digest ors, and five dewatering centrifuges. The digesters are
maintained at a certain residence time and temperature to meet U .S. EPA
Class B standards. The d igested sludge is then dewatered in one of five
centrifuges. The resulting material , referred to as biosolids , is hauled offsite by
a contractor for beneficial reuse as soil amendment .
The Discharger contracts with Synagro -WWT, Inc. (Synagro) for hauling about
90 percent of its biosolids that are land appli ed in dry weather or composted.
For the remaining 10 percent of is biosolids, t he Discharger contracts with
Lystek International (Lystek) to convert them in to liquid fertilizer .
2.1.5. Resource Recovery. The Discharger’s Resource Recovery Program manages
the disposal of trucked waste to the plant. Types of waste typically hauled to the
East Bay Municipal Utility District Order R2 -2026-0003
Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA003 7702
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6plant include septage; food industry waste, such as winery, dairy, and other
high-total-dissolved -solids waste; animal processing waste; food scraps; and
food grade fats, oils, and greases. The Resource Recovery Program reduces
the amount of organic wastes diverted to landfills and increases methane
production for renewable power generation.
2.1.6. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all
stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the plant’s head works for
treatment.
2.1.7. Recycled Water. The Discharger generates tertiary -treated recycled water
using microfiltration and disinfection as part of the East Bayshore Recycled
Water Project, which has a production capacity of up to 2.9 million gallons per
day. The recycled water is currently used for irrigation in parts of Oakland and
Emeryville, and there are plans to expand recycled water service to Alameda.
State Water Board Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW sets forth water recycling
requirements for this project.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes . The Discharger plans, at a minimum, to rehabilitat e the
secondary clarifiers, the oxygen production plant, and grit dewatering over the next
five years .
The Dis charger is conducting a multi -year pilot study to optimize and possibly
modify its high purity oxygen activated sludge process to improve biological
nutrient removal. If the pilot is successful, the Discharger could implement
changes ranging from simple process updates to equipment upgrades and/or new
facilities for supplemental treatment. The Discharger will report on the status of
this effort annually , as required by Order R2 -2024 -0013, the Nutrients Watershed
Permit.
2.6 Sea Level Rise. To adapt to rising sea levels, the Discharger developed a sea
level rise adaptation plan titled Wastewater Climate Change Plan (Plan) , most
recently updated in June 2020 . This Plan aligns with the State of California Sea -
Level Rise Guidance (Ocean Protection Council, 2018 Update) by (1) using sea
level rise projections based on a high scenario for greenhouse gas emissions, (2)
providing vulnerability assessments of at -risk facilities, and (3) discussing potential
mitigation plans for the most vulnerable of these facilities. The Plan also describes
a process for developing a region -wide collaborative approach to adaptation
planning between the Discharger and surrounding cities, nearby counties, flood
control districts, the Port of Oakland, and the State of California. Based on a
scenario that assumes business -as-usual with no reduction in greenhouse gas
emissions, the Discharger expects to avoid major impacts to its infrastructure
before 2050, except during extreme (100 -year) storm events. The Discharger
continues to monitor changes in sea level rise predictions and modeling to
determine if or when the Plan will need to be updated .
3.