Attachment B shows map s of the Facility area.
2. Collection System. The Discharger’s collection system is predominantly a combined sewer
system with some limited separate sanitary sewers. The combined sewer system consists of approximately 250 miles of pipe, one major pump sta tion (Westside Pump Station), six
minor pump stations (four all-weather pump stations: Westside, Sea C liff No. 1, Sea C liff
No. 2, and Pine Lake ; and two wet weather pump stations: Sea C liff No. 3 and Zoo Wet
Weather Lift Station) , and three large transport/storage structures (Westside
Transport/Storage Structure, a 49.3- million -gallon box-like structure located beneath the
Great Highway; Richmond Tunnel, a 12.0- million -gallon tunnel located to the north; and
Lake Merced Tunnel, a 10.0- million -gallo n tunnel located to the south). The separate
sanitary sewer system s serve isolated areas and are also regulated under State Water Board
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5 Order No. 2006-0003- DWQ as amended by State Water Board Order No. WQ 2013-0058-
EXEC.
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant . During dry weather, the plant provides
secondary treatment. The treatment processes include coarse screening at the Westside
Pump Station, fine screening and grit removal at the plant headworks, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge treatment by a high-purity oxygen process, and secondary clarification. The effluent is not disinfected . The plant has a maximum secondary
treatment design capacity of about 43 million gallons per day (MGD). During wet weather, the plant can provide primary treatment for about 22 M GD more, which is
combined with the secondary -treated effluent prior to discharge for a total treatment
capaci ty of 65 MGD. Plant effluent flows to Discharge Point No. 001 by gravity.
b. Combined Sewer System . The combined storage capacity of the three transport/storage
structures is about 71 million gallons. C ollection system piping provides about 2 million
gallons of additional storage. The transport/storage structures provide flow equalization and convey combined sewer system flows up to 65 MGD to th e plant by way of the
Westside Pump Station.
Flows above the plant’s 65- MGD treatment capacity receive equivalent- to-primary
treatment through solids settling, skimming of floatable solids, and in some cases screening with in the combined sewer system . In addition to pumping up to 65 MGD to
the plant, the Westside Pump Station can also pump flow from the Westside Transport/Storage Structure to Discharge Point No. 001 during wet weather
 (identified in
the previous order as “decant”). The design capacity of the Westside Pump Station wet weather pumps ranges from 98 to 133 MGD depending on the number and model of pumps operating when there are high water levels in the West Box of the Westside Transport/Storage Structure (typically observed during wet weather operations). Flows that exceed the capacities of the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant and combined sewer system may discharge from Discharge Point Nos. CSD -001, CSD-002, CSD-003,
CSD -004, CSD-005, CSD-006, and CSD -007. F our of these discharge points are directly
connected to transport/storage structures (Discharge Point Nos. CSD -001, CSD-002,
CSD -003, and CSD-004), and three are associated with pump station sumps (Discharge
Point Nos. CSD -005, CSD-006, and CSD-007). After wet weather events , stored
combined sewer system flows and accumulated solids remaining in the transport/storage structures are conveyed to the plant for treatment.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger uses temperature -phased anaerobic
digestion, which is capable of producing Class A biosolids. Primary sludge, waste activated sludge, and secondary scum are mixed and co-thickened using gravity belt thickeners prior to being fed to the anaerobic digestion system. The digestion system accepts hauled -in batches
of primary and secondary sludge from the Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Digested biosolids are dewatered using screw presses and stored in hoppers prior to being
loaded into covered trucks for transport. During the wet season , the majority of biosolids are
hauled to a landfill for storage and eventual use as interim cover, final cover, or landfill
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 building material; a small percentage is reused for agricultural land application . During the
dry season , biosolids are hauled offsite for agricultural land application.
5. Water Recycling and Reclamation . The Discharger is constructing a recycled water project
at the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant site during this Order’s term. Secondary-
treated efflu ent will be treated further with membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection to produce recycled water. The concentrate from the reverse osmosis process will be commingled with plant effluent prior to discharge at Discharge Point No. 001. Filter backwash water generated at the Westside Recycled Water Project will be directed to the plant headworks for treatment. The project is expected to produce and deliver an annual average flow of 1.6 MGD of recycled water for distribution in the western portion of San Francisco , with peak deliveries of up to 4 MGD during summer.
Water recycling operations will not increase the mass of pollutants discharged at Discharge Point No. 001, but will increase the concentration of pollutants discharged. The requirements of this Order account for the discharge from this water recycling project. Reclamation
requires waste discharge requirements beyond those specified here, such as those in State Water Board Order No. WQ 2016-0068- DDW (Water Reclamat ion Requirements for
Recycled Water Use).
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not supplemented
G. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not supplemented
H. Other Noncompliance – Not supplemented
I. Other Information – Not supplemented
VI. STANDARD PROVISION – ENFORCEMENT – Not Supplemented
VII. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – Not Supplemented
VIII. DEFINITIONS – Addition to Attachment D
More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.
A. Arithmetic Calculations
1. Geometric Mean . The antilog of the log mean or the back-transformed mean of the
logarithmically transforme d variables, which is equivalent to the multiplication of the
antilogarithms. The geometric mean can be calculated with either of the following equations:
Geometric Mean
or
Geometric Mean = (C
1×C2×…×CN)1/N ( )

=∑
=N
iiC LogNAnti
11log
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project