1. Wastewater Treatment .

The Discharger owns and operates a 420- acre steel finishing plant. The Facility finishes
purchased coils of hot -rolled steel but does not manufacture steel from raw materials. The
processes include pickling with hydrochloric and sulfuric acid, cold rolling, alkaline
cleaning, annealing, hot -dip galvanizing, and electrolytic tin and chromium plating.
 Attachment C provides a schematic diagram of the Facility treatment processes. The following treatment systems provide preliminary treatment in the main part of the Facility
prior to final treatment at the main treatment plant in the northeast corner of the Facility:
• The oil separation treats oily wastewater from cold rolling mills.
• The outgoing treatment system reduces chromium VI from the chromium recovery unit.
• The primary neutralization system neutralizes the pH of spent alkaline cleaning baths.
 Partly treated wastewater from the above processes flows to the main treatment plant alon g
with other untreated waste streams (see Attachment C).The treatment plant also receives a maximum of 5 million gallons per year of wastewater from impoundments and purge water from monitoring wells.
 Attachment C provides a diagram of the Facility’s main wastewater treatment plant. It
consists of a pump station (Lift Station No. 3), an oil/water separator, a mixer building to adjust the pH with lime or caustic for metals precipitation, two clarifiers, and two neutralization tanks for final pH adjustment ( hydrochloric acid in the first stage and
hydrochloric acid or caustic in the second stage). Solids from the clarifier are dewatered with a filter press and hauled to the Facility’s onsite landfill. The filtrate is returned to Lift Station No. 3 for treatme nt. Treated wastewater is discharged to New York Slough at Discharge
Point No. 001.

USS-POSCO Industries Order No. R2-2016-0043
Pittsburg Plant NPDES No. CA0005002

F-6
 2. Storm water Management
The treatment plant also receives most of the stormwater from the Facility’s developed areas
(e.g. parking lots, buildings, roadways , and materials storage areas ). However, untreated
stormwater is discharged to New York Slough at Discharge Point No. 002 during large
storms when the pumping capacity is exceeded.

B. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Change s – Not supplemented

G. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not supplemented

H. Other Noncompliance – Not supplemented

I. Other Information – Not supplemented

VI. STANDARD PROVISION – ENFORCEMENT – Not Supplemented

VII. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – Not Supplemented
 VIII. DEFINITIONS – This section is an addition to Standard Provisions (Attachment D)

More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.

1. Arithmetic Calculations

a. Geometric mean is the antilog of the log mean or the back -transformed mean of the logarithmically
transformed variables, which is equivalent to the multiplication of the antilogarithms. The geometric
mean can be calculated with either of the following equations:

Geometric Mean
 or
 Geometric Mean = (C
1*C2*…*C N)1/N

 Where “N” is the number of data points for the period analyzed and “C” is the concentration for each
of the “N” data points.

b. Mass emission rate is obtained from the following calculation for any calendar day:

Mass emission rate (lb/day) =

Mass emission rate (kg/day) =

 In which “N” is the number of samples analyzed in any calendar day and “Qi” and “Ci” are the flow
rate (MGD) and the constituent concentration (mg/L) associated with each of the “N” grab samples
that may be taken in any calendar day. If a composite sample is taken, “Ci” is the concentration
measured in the composite sample and “Qi” is the average flow rate occurring during the period over
which the samples are composited. The daily concentration of a constituent measured over any
calendar day shall be determined from the flow -weighted average of the same constituent in the
combined waste streams as follows:
 ()

=∑
=N
iiC LogNAnti
11log
∑
=N
iiiCQN 1345.8
∑
=N
iiiCQN1785.3
USS-POSCO Industries Order No. R2-2016-0043
Pittsburg Plant NPDES No. CA0005002