2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
11 Tennent Avenue in Pinole. It provides secondary treatment of domestic ,
commercial , and industrial wastewater for the cities of Pinole and Hercules in
Contra Co sta County. The Facility serves a population of about 4 5,000 people .
Attachment B shows a map of the area around the Facility .
2.1.2 Collection System . The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from two
collection systems. The City of Pinole’s collection system is a separate sewer
system comprised of approximately 51 miles of pipes and 2 pump stations. The
City of Hercules’ collection system is a sepa rate sewer system comprised of
approximately 58 miles of pipes and 6 pump stations , covered separately under
State Water Board Order WQ 2022 0103 DWQ (Statewide Waste Discharge
Requirements General Order for Sanitary Sewer Systems) . The cities own and
operate the collection systems within their city limits.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The wastewater treatment process consists of influent
screening, grit removal, primary clarification , activated sludge biological
treatment (with Modified Ludzack -Ettinger pr ocess for
nitrification/denitrification), secondary clarification, disinfection with sodium
hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. Attachment C provides
the treatment plant flow schematic. The treated effluent (disinfected and
dechlorinat ed) is pumped through an effluent force main to Rodeo, where it is
combined with Rodeo Sanitary District effluent and discharged through a
deepwater outfall/diffuser to San Pablo Bay. The treatment plant has an
average daily dry weather treatment capacity of up to 4.06 million gallons per
day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 20 MGD. During wet weather,
the Discharger routes flows that exceed 12 MGD directly to its activated sludge
biological treatment system (after screening and grit removal) . From November
2021 through October 20 22, the plant treated a daily average of 2.7 MGD.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary and
secondary sludge with a gravity thickener, treats the combined sludge with
anaerobic digesti on to a Class B level , and dewaters the combined sludge with
a centrifuge. Biosolids are currently hauled to the Keller Canyon Landfill for
disposal . The Discharger is considering c omposting and land application of
biosolids for future disposal practices.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
City of Pinole Order R2-2023-0008
Pinole -Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 796
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-62.2. Discharg e Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not supplemented
5.7. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not supplemented
5.8. Other Noncompliance – Not supplemented
5.9. Other Information – Not supplemented
6. STANDARD PROVISIONS – ENFORCEMENT – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIF ICATION LEVELS – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
8. DEFINITIONS – ADDITION TO ATTACHMENT D
More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.
8.1. Arithmetic Calculations
8.1.1. Geometric Mean. The antilog of the log mean or the back -transformed mean of
the logarithmically transformed variables, which is equivalent to the
multiplication of the antilogarithms. The geometric mean can be calculated with
either of the following equations:
Geometric Mean = Anti log (1/N ∑ Log C i)
or
Geometric Mean = (C 1 x C2 x … x CN)1/N
Where “N” is the number of data points for the period analyzed and “C” is the
concentration for each of the “N” data points.
8.1.2 . Mass Emission Rate. The rate of discharge expressed in mass. The mass
emission rate is obtained from the following calculation for any calendar day:

City of Pinole Order R2-2023-0008
Pinole -Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 796
ATTA CHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-17In which “N” is the number of samples analyzed in any calendar day and “Q i”
and “C i” are the flow rate (MGD) and the constituent concentration (mg/L)
associated with each of the “N” grab samples that may be taken in any calendar
day. If a composite sample is taken, “C i” is the concentration measured in the
composite sample and “Q i” is the average flow rate occurring during the period
over which the samples are composited. The daily c oncentration of a
constituent measured over any calendar day shall be determined from the flow
weighted average of the same constituent in the combined waste streams as
follows:
In which “N” is the number of component waste streams and “Q” and “C” are
the flow rate (MGD) and the constituent concentration (mg/L) associated with
each of the “N” waste streams. “Q t” is the total flow rate of the combined waste
streams.
8.1.3 . Removal Efficiency. The ratio of pollutants removed by the treatment facilities
to pollutants entering the treatment facilities (expressed as a percentage). The
Discharger shall determine removal efficiencies using monthly averages (by
calendar month unless otherwise specified) of pollutant concentration of influent
and effluent samples c ollected at about the same time and using the following
equation (or its equivalent):
Removal Efficiency (%) =
100 x [1 - (Effluent Concentration / Influent Concentration)]
8.2. Blending – the practice of bypassing biological treatment units and recombining
the bypass wastewater with biologically -treated wastewater.
8.3. Composite Sample – a sample composed of individual grab samples collected
manually or by an automatic sampling device on the basis of time or flow as
specified in the MRP. For flo w-based composites, the proportion of each grab
sample included in the composite sample shall be within plus or minus five percent
(+/-5%) of the representative flow of the waste stream being measured at the time
of grab sample collection. Alternatively, e qual volume grab samples may be
individually analyzed with the flow -weighted average calculated by averaging flow -
weighted ratios of each grab sample analytical result. Grab samples comprising
time-based composite samples shall be collected at intervals no t greater than
those specified in the MRP. The quantity of each grab sample comprising a time -

City of Pinole Order R2-2023-0008
Pinole -Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 796
ATTA CHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-18based composite sample shall be a set of flow proportional volumes as specified in
the MRP. If a particular time -based or flow -based composite sampling protocol i s
not specified in the MRP, the Discharger shall determine and implement the most
representative protocol.
8.4. Duplicate Sample – a second sample taken from the same source and at the
same time as an initial sample (such samples are typically analyzed ide ntically to
measure analytical variability).
8.5. Grab Sample – an individual sample collected during a short period not exceeding
15 minutes. Grab samples represent only the condition that exists at the time the
sample is collected.
8.6. Overflow – the intentional or unintentional spilling or forcing out of untreated or
partially -treated waste from a transport system (e.g., through manholes, at pump
stations, or at collection points) upstream of the treatment plant headworks or from
any part of a treatmen t plant.
8.7. Priority Pollutants – those constituents referred to in 40 C.F.R. part 122 as
promulgated in the Federal Register, Vol. 65, No. 97, Thursday, May 18, 2000,
also known as the California Toxics Rule.
8.8. Untreated waste – raw wastewater.
City of Pinole Order R2-2023-0008
Pinole -Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 796