30,000. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility.
2. Collection System . The Las Gallinas Valley Sanitation District collection system consists of
105 miles of gravity- flow sanitary sewer lines , 6.7 miles of pressure sewers, which range in
diameter from 6 to 42 inches, and 28 lift stations. Several small satellite collection systems connect to the Facility. The largest are two mobile home parks that contribute approximately 2.6 percent and 2.0 percent of the treatment plant flow. The remaining satellite systems are much sma ller. The Discharger’s wastewater collection system is covered under the statewide
General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Order No. 2006-0003-
DWQ) .
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020 -0022
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant NPDES No . CA0037851


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5 3. Wastewater Treatment . The plant has a dry weath er flow design capacity of 2.92 million
gallons per day (MGD), and a wet weather capacity of approximately 8 MGD for full
biological treatment. For the last five dry seasons (May through October), the average dry
weather flow was 1.97 MGD. For the last four wet seasons (November through Apr il), the
average flow was 3.23 MGD . The maximum daily effluent flow was 18.0 MGD in February
2019.
Attachment C provides Facility flow schematics. The wastewater treatment p rocess consist s
of two mechanically -cleaned fine screens, two aerated grit chambers, one 80 -foot- diameter
primary clarifier (which can provide partial flow equalization) and two 65-foot- diameter
primary clarifiers, two trickling filters, a secondary clarifier, a fixed fi lm reactor for
nitrification, eight anthracite deep -bed filters, and two underground chlorine contact basins.
Disinfection occurs using sodium hypochlorite, followed by dechlorination using sodium
bisulfite.
Treated effluent is discharged to Miller Creek during the wet season. During the dry season, treated effluent is routed to an onsite reclamation system and re- used (see Fact Sheet
section II.A.6). In the event of high wastewater flows from early or late season storms,
treated and dechlorinated effluent may be discharged to Miller Creek.
During wet weather, when primary- treated flows exceed the plant ’s biological capacity of
8 MGD and all onsite storage is used, additional flows are diverted around biological treatment units and “ blended ” with fully -treated effluent. After disinfection, the blended flow
is dechlorinated prior to discharge. The following summarizes operations at varying influent flows:
a. Flows up to approximately 6.9 MGD receive primary treatment, biological treatment,
nitrification, de ep bed filtration, and disinfection. (The maximum flow rate through the
deep bed filters can be less than 6.9 MGD depending on loads and other operating
conditions.)
b. Flows above approximately 6.9 MGD and up to 8 MGD receive primary treatment, biological tr eatment , partial deep bed filtration, and disinfection.
c. Flows above 8 MGD and up to 21.6 MGD receive primary treatment, partial deep bed filtration, and disinfection before blending with biologically -treated flows.
d. Flows above 21.6 and up to 25 MGD (the pl ant’s peak hydraulic capacity) receive
primary treatment and disinfection before blending with biologically -treated flows .
Flows bypassing biological treatment are subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C of the Order and Attachment D section I.G. For purposes of this Order, f lows routed around nitrification
and deep bed filtration are not considered bypasses subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C of
the Order and Attachment D section I.G.
Upon completion of plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet section II.E), the plant’s biological treatment capacity will increase to about 18 MGD. The upgraded treatment process will consist of two mechanically -cleaned fine screens, two aerated grit chambers, one 80-foot-
diameter primary clarifier and two 65 -foot- diameter primary clarifiers, a hybrid fixed -
film/activated sludge secondary treatment system with four parallel basins, two secondary
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020 -0022
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant NPDES No . CA0037851


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 clarifiers, and two underground chlorine contact basins. The fixed film/activated sludge
system will provide nitrification and partial denitrification. Disinfection and dechlorination will remain unchanged .
The F acility may need to continue blending primary -treated wastewater with biologically -
treated wastewater under very high flow conditions, which are expected to occur
infrequently. Under those conditions, flows up to about 18 MGD will receive full biological treatment and disinfection, while flows above 18 mgd and up to 25 mgd (the plant’s
hydraulic capacity) will receive primary treatment and disinfection before blending.
4. Sludge and B iosolids Management . Grit, screenings, and a portion of the material skimmed
from the treatment processes is disposed of in the Redwood Sanitary Landfill. Other solids are treated by gravity thickening and anaerobic digestion in primary and secondary digesters and then pumped to three sludge storage lagoons. The sludge storage lagoons are double-lined and have a total capacity of approximately 3.2 million gallons. Biosolids are ultimately disposed of onsite at the Discharger’s 9- acre land disposal site.
5. Stormwater Management . The Discharger is not required to be covered under the statewide
NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities (NPDES
General Permit No. CAS000001) because all stormwater at the plant is collected and
recycled or routed to the plant’s headworks for treatment.
6. Recycled Water. During the dry weather “ reclamation” season (June through October, plus
May when conditions allow), treated effluent is reclaimed onsite in accordance with Order No. 92-064. The onsite reclamation system consists of two 20 -acre storage ponds, a 20- acre
freshwater marsh/wildlife pond, and 200 acres of irrigated pasture. The storage ponds are used to dechlorinate the effluent through natural processes. From 2015 through 2018, the average volume of plant effluent applied to the pasture was 76.4 million gallons per year, approximately 8.1 percent of the Discharger’s annual flow volume. The Discharger may return surplus water remaining in the storage ponds at the end of the reclamation season to
the plant for treatment and discharge to Miller Creek .
Since 2012, the Discharger has operated its own onsite water recycling facility. The Las Gallinas Recycled Water Facility produces disinfected tertiary recycled water by further treating the secondary effluent using ultrafiltration and ultraviolet disinfection. The recycled water is del ivered to the North Marin Water District, which transmits and distributes it for
irrigation in the southern Novato area. From 2015 through 2018, the North Marin Water District recycled an average volume of 39.7 million gallons per year, approximately
4.2 percent of the Discharger’s annual flow volume. The Discharger and the North Marin Water District are permitted separately under State Water Board Order No. WQ 201 6-0068-
DDW .
Since 1988, plant effluent and water from the storage ponds has been used by the M arin
Municipal Water District for feedstock in its recycled water plant, which produces disinfected tertiary recycled water for distribution throughout its northern San Rafael service area, for irrigation and other approved uses. From 2015 through 2018, the average volume of the Discharger’s effluent recycled by Marin Municipal Water District was 212 million gallons per year, approximately 22.4 percent of the Discharger’s annual flow volume. The Marin Municipal Water District system was permitted under Water Reuse Order No. 89 -127,
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020 -0022
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant NPDES No . CA0037851


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7 issued jointly to the Marin Municipal Water District and the Discharger. Starting in summer
2020, the expanded Las Gallinas Recycled Water facility will produce recycled water for distribution to MM WD and MMWD’s existing recycled water plant will be removed.
B. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger ’s existing secondary treatment process is undergoing a major upgrade as part of
a project that also includes expansion of the Recycled Water Facility. The following upgrades
will be implemented through a series of construction phases:
• The existing grit ch ambers will be upgraded.
• A primary effluent pump station will be constructed to lift primary effluent into the new
secondary treatment facilities.
• The existing rock biofilters and nitrification fixed film reactor will be replaced with a combined fixed film /activated sludge nitrification/denitrification system, with associated
sludge collection systems. This new treatment process will increase the peak wet weather
biological treatment capacity from 8 MGD to 18 MGD.
• The existing deep bed filters will no longer be used for treatment prior to discharge, but the
filter effluent channel will continue to serve as the influent wet well for the Recycled Water
Facility. The filter structure will serve as a wet well and equalization basin for the plant drainage system.
• The existing secondary clarifier will be demolished, and two larger secondary clarifiers will be constructed .
• The existing chlorination and dechlorination storage and feed facilities will be upgraded, and
modifications will be made to the chlorine contact chamber piping.
• Two mechanical disc thickener units will be constructed to thicken the combined primary and secondary sludge stream.
• The hydraulic grade line of the new treatment and disinfection facilities will be raised by 4.3
feet to protect against expected sea level rise. This increase in elevation is expected to
provide protection for the next 65 years , according to projections by the San Francisco Bay
Conservation and Development Commission and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .
• The treatment plant’s yard piping, air and water utilities, and electrical, process control , and
emergency power systems will be upgraded.
The project , which began in February 2019, will be constructed in three phases over a period of
approximately three years. The fixed film/activated sludge basins and associated facilities are scheduled to be operational by September 2020. Because only the existing secondary clarifier will be in service at that time, the biological treatment capacity will remain 8 MGD unti l the
project is completed in 2022.
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Order No. R2-2020 -0022
Las Gallinas Valley Sanitary District Sewage Treatment Plant NPDES No . CA0037851


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-12 III.