2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 2001
Paradise Drive in Tiburon. It provides secondary treatment of domestic and
commercial wastewater for the City of Belvedere, the Town of Tiburon, and
unincorporated areas of the Tiburon Peninsula . The Facility serves a population
of about 8,400.
2.1.2 Collection System . The collection system for the wastewater treatment plant is
entirely under the Discharger’s jurisdiction, totaling approximately 31 miles of
collection system and 22 pump stations (13 in the City of Belvedere and 9 in the
Town of Tiburon).
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The plant can provide biological treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 0.98 million gallons per day (MGD).
During the dry season (May 1 to October 31) from 2018 to 2022, the plant
treated an average daily dry weather flow of 0.56 MGD. The treatment process
consists of raw influent grinding, primary clarification, activated sludge aeration,
secondary clarificatio n, sodium hypochlorite disinfection, and sodium bisulfite
dechlorination. The plant also has onsite storage consisting of an additional
primary clarifier, an offline aeration basin, and a surge tank, totaling over
315,000 gallons.
The plant can provide b iological treatment for up to 2.3 MGD during wet
weather when influent flows to the plant are more diluted. During periods of
heavy rain , when influent flow exceed s the plant’s biological treatment capacity
of 2.3 MGD and all onsite storage is used, the pl ant routes the portion of flows
above 2.3 MGD from its primary clarifiers directly to its sodium hypochlorite
disinfection tank (bypassing activated sludge aeration and secondary
clarification) where it is blended with biologically treated effluent and
dechlorinated prior to discharge. Any primary treated flows stored onsite are
routed back to the headworks for full treatment. Such bypasses, or blending
events , are necessary at times to prevent washout of microbial populations in
the biological treatment un its. Bypasses of biological treatment are subject to
Discharge Prohibition 3.2, Attachment D section 1.7 (see Fact Sheet section
4.1.1.2 ), and Provision 6.3.5.1 .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger treats sludge with
mesophilic anaerobic digesters (producing Class B biosolids), thickens the
treated biosolids with a rotary drum, and dewaters the thickened sludge using a
screw press. The Discharger hauls the dewatered, treated biosolids to a landfill
for beneficial reuse .
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County Order R2-2023-0018
Sanitary District No. 5 Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037753
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.1.6. Recy cled Water Activities . The Discharger investigated the feasibility of
recycling its wastewater, which was found infeasible based on the current
demand. The Discharger will consider evaluating the feasibility of recycling its
wastewater in the future.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not supplemented
5.7. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not supplemented
5.8. Other Noncompliance – Not supplemented
5.9. Other Information – Not supplemented
6. STANDARD PROVISIONS – ENFORCEMENT – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
8. DEFINITIONS – ADDITION TO ATTACHMENT D
More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.
8.1. Arithmetic Calculations
8.1.1. Geometric Mean. The antilog of the log mean or the back -transformed mean of
the logarithmically transformed variables, which is equivalent to the
multiplication of the antilogarithms. The geometric mean can be calculated with
either of the following equations:
Geometric Mean = Anti log (1/N ∑ Log C i)
or
Geometric Mean = (C 1 x C2 x … x CN)1/N
Where “N” is the number of data points for the period analyzed and “C” is the
concentration for each of the “N” data points.
8.1.2 . Mass Emission Rate. The rate of discharg e expressed in mass. The mass
emission rate is obtained from the following calculation for any calendar day:

Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County Order R2-2023-0018
Sanitary District No. 5 Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037753