2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The plant is located at 400 East Millbrae Avenue
in the City of Millbrae . It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial,
and industrial wastewater for the City of Millbrae and serves a population of
approximately 23,200 . No significant industrial users are located within the
service area.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Sanitary Sewer System . The City of Millbrae ’s sanitary sewer system is
comprised of approximately 59 miles of gravity sewer pipes, 22 miles of lower
laterals, and 3 pump stations and approximately 1 mile of associated force
mains .
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The treatment process consists of preliminary
screening (two fine bar screens and one coarse bar screen) , grit removal (two
vortex -type grit removal devices) , influent flow equalization (two tanks with a
maximum combined volume of 1.2 million gallons) , primary sedimentation (two
primary clarifiers) , biological activated sludge treatment (two aeration basins) ,
secondary clarification (two secondary clarifiers) , and sodium hypochlorite
disinfection. After disinfection, the plant routes effluent to the South San
Francisco / San Bruno Water Qua lity Control Plant through the NBSU force
main for dechlorination. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average dry weather design flow of 3.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a
peak wet weather capacity of 9.0 MGD . From May 2019 to September 2023,
the plant treated a daily average of 1.5 MGD, with the highest reported average
daily flow being 8.1 MGD .
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with gravity or mechanical thickeners, treats the thickened sludge with
anaerobic digestion, and dewaters the digested sludge with a belt filter press .
City of Millbrae and NBSU Order R2-2024 -0005
City of Millbrae Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037532
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6Dewatered, treated biosolids are hauled offsite to various land application sites
for beneficial reuse .
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger ’s recycled water use is limited to
onsite applications at the plant. Recycled water is used to wash down and clean
equipment (e.g., bar screens and clarifiers) and for dust control. The Discharger
is evaluating the feasibility of implementing a recycled water program to provide
disinfected tertiary recycled water to existing sites and future development for
landscape irrigation.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Supplemented
5.7. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not Supplemented
5.8. Other Noncompliance – Not Supplemented
5.9. Other Information – Not Supplemented
6. STANDARD PROVISIONS – ENFORCEMENT – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
8. DEFINITIONS – ADDITION TO ATTACHMENT D
More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.
8.1. Arithmetic Calculations
8.1.1. Geometric Mean. The antilog of the log mean or the back -transformed mean of
the logarithmically transformed variables, which is equivalent to the
multiplication of the antilogarithms. The geometric mean can be calculated with
either of the following equations:
Geometric Mean = Anti log (1/N ∑ Log C i)
or
Geometric Mean = (C 1 x C2 x … x CN)1/N
Where “N” is the number of data points for the period analyzed and “C” is the
concentration for each of the “N” data points.
8.1.2 . Mass Emission Rate. The rate of discharge expressed in mass. The mass
emission rate is obtained from the following calculation for any calendar day:

City of Millbrae and NBSU Order R2-2024 -0005
City of Millbrae Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037532