Sanitary Sewer Systems (State Water Board O rder No. 2006- 0003- DWQ ).
Raw wastewater enters the Facility by way of two grinder pumps. From the headworks,
influent enters the primary clarifier in the center and is directed towards the bottoms of the
tank by use of a stilling baffle. Effluent from prim ary clarifier is fed by gravity into a fixed film
reactor sump, where it is then pumped over the fixed film reactor along with a percentage of
recirculation water. Effluent from the fixed film reactor enters a sump that partially recirculates
back to the f ixed film reactor, while the remainder is pumped to two secondary sedimentation
tanks. Effluent from the secondary sedimentation tanks is disinfected with sodium
hypochlorite and then dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite.
Biosolids from the secondary sedim entation tank s are collected and pumped back to the
primary clarifier and ultimately to the anaerobic digester. Biosolids that are collected and
pumped to the anaerobic digester are disposed of by pumping the solids directly from the

AVILA BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2017- 0025
AVILA BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WWTP NPDES NO. CA 0047830


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 bottom of the digester through a 3- inch cam fitting and trucking the material off- site for further
processing.
Effluent leaving the Facility enters the Avila Beach Community Services District’s outfall,
which extends approximately 2, 700 feet offshore—approximately 1,000 feet beyond Avila
Pier—and terminates at an depth of approximately 35 feet in the Pacific Ocean (San Luis
Obispo Bay).
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Faci lity is seeking to accept shipments of brine wastes by truck from business entities
that would otherwise be discharging to the sanitary sewer system. Such wastewaters include
softener regenerant wastes and reverse osmosis brines. Discharges are not permit ted, nor
anticipated, from facilities that would contribute industrial pollutants or cause pass -through
violations, such as metal plating operations or high- strength BOD wastes.
This Order establishes