Pure Water Monterey recycled water conveyance system .
2.1.1 Regional WWTP Secondary Treatment
Wastewater treatment at the Regional WWTP includes screening, aerated grit
removal, primary sedimentation, secondary treatment through trickling filters,
solids contact (i.e., bio -flocculation), and secondary clarification. Undisinfected
secondary clarifier effluent that is not further processed at the tertiary facility or
AWPF is discharged to the ocean through Discharge Point 001. Biosolids are
anaerobically digested and sent to two screw presses for dewatering . Holding
lagoons and drying beds located on site are utilized to dry sludge . Dried solids are
hauled to the ReGen Monterey (formerly Monterey Regional Waste Management
District ) landfill in Marina, located adjacent to the Regional WWTP, where they are
mixed with refuse and buried each day. Currently, land application of biosolids is
not allowed in Monterey County.
Although it had accepted up to 50,000 gallons of hauled saline waste7in a single
day previously, more recently the Facility accepts negligible amounts of hauled
saline waste because the Discharger implemented enhanced saline waste
analytical requirements . Hauled saline waste s can be monitored and held in a
375,000 -gallon (approximate) lined pond before it is blended with secondary
effluent and discharged to the Pacific Ocean through Discharge Point 001 ;
however, this rarely occurs . The Discharger segregates these high -salt waste
stream s from the rest of the influent flow to minimize salts present in the
secondary effluent . This protect s irrigation reuse of recycled water from containing
salt concentration s that exceed crop tolerance.
2.1.2 Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF)
Some s econdary -treated effluent from the Regional WWTP undergoes full
advanced treatment at the AWPF , including ozone addition , membrane filtration,
RO, advanced oxidation using ultraviolet light and hydrogen peroxide, and
finished water stabilization. The AWPF was originally designed to produce 5
MGD . Upon completion of an expansion project in late 2025 , the AWPF will have
capacity to produce 7.6 MGD of full advanced -treate d water for injection in the
Seaside Groundwat er Basin and landscape irrigation by M arina Coast Water
District. RO concentrate from the AWPF is mixed with hauled saline waste (if
present) and secondary effluent (when available) from the Regional WWTP and
7Hauled saline wastes have historically consisted of by -product from commercial water treatment entities
(e.g., Culligan) and seawater brine from the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER R3-2024 -0045
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES CA0048551
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6discharged to the ocean at Discharge Point 001. Membrane filter backwash
produced by the AWPF is sent to the Regional WWTP headworks for treatment.
This Order addresses the discharge of AWPF RO concentrate with hauled saline
waste and secondary effluent at Discharge Point 001. The production and
subsequent groundwater injection of full advance d treated recycled water at the
AWPF is governed by separate Waste Discharge Requirements/Water Recycling
Requirements (WDRs /WRRs ) Order R3 -2017 -0003 (and any subsequent
revision s to that order).
2.1.3. Tertiary Treatment
Some secondary effluent undergoes tertiary treatment for irrigation of farmland in
the northern Salinas Valley. Tertiary treatment includes coagulation, flocculation,
filtration, and disinfection for design flows of up to 29.6 MGD. Tertiary treated
wastewater is held in an 80 -acre-foot storage pond before it is distributed to
12,000 acres of farmland by the CSIP distribution system.
Production of disinfected tertiary recycled water at the Regional WWTP is
governed by this Order. The distribution and use of recycled water for irrigation is
regulated via separate WRRs and is supplied to CSIP from Monterey County
Water Resources Agency’s Salinas Valley Water Project (SVWP) . SVWP also
includes a seasonal Salinas River Diversion Facility, screening and disinfection of
river water prior to combining with tertiary recycled water and flowing to the
recycled water pond.
2.1.4. Source Waters and Effluent Flows
In 2020 , as part of the Pure Water Monterey project, new sources of urban and
agricultural runoff were directed to the Regional WWTP headworks to increase the
supply of recycled water. The new source waters are composed of Salinas
industrial wastewater (non -domestic wastewater primarily from produce
processing) , stormwater flows from Salinas, and stormwater and agricultural
runoff from the Blanco Drain and the Salinas Reclamation Canal , all of which are
mixed with domestic sewage (including storm water, dry season urban runoff, and
industrial wastewater) from the member agencies at the Regional WWTP
headworks . Due to lower than anticipated municipal wastewater flows and
increased demand for recycled water , more water will be diverted from these
same sources in the future to meet recycled water influent needs.
At peak operating capacity, the AWPF will receive approximately 10.4 MGD of
secondary effluent as source water (of that , approximately 0.68 MGD will be
returned to the Regional WWTP headworks as filter backwash) and will achieve
approximately 73 percent overall recovery to produce 7.6 MGD of recycled water
for irrigation and groundwater injection. A maximum of 1.78 MGD of RO
concentrate from the AWPF will be discharged to the ocean from Discharge Point
001. The total discharge flow through Discharge Point 0 01 will not exceed the
permitted flows of 29.6 MGD (ADWF) and 75.6 MGD (PWWF). Table F -2 lists the
predicted flows from the Regional WWTP and the AWPF.
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER R3-2024 -0045
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES CA0048551
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7Table F -2Flows Contributing to Discharge Point 001
Wastewater Sources Effluent Flow (MGD)
Hauled Saline Waste 0.00 - 0.05
Secondary -Treated Effluent18.53 (annual average ), 29.6 (ADWF)
75.6 (PWWF)
RO Concentrate from AWPF 0.83-1.78 (Maximum)
2.1.5. Dilution Factors
The addition of the AWPF RO concentrate to the Regional WWTP secondary
effluent change s the character of the effluent waste stream discharged to
Monterey Bay. Effluent quality is a function of the amount of secondary -treated
effluent commingled with the AWPF RO concentrate and hauled saline waste.
Secondary -treated effluent from the Regional WWTP will be (1) treated through
the AWPF to produce purified water for groundwater recharge or urban landscape
irrigation, (2) treated to produce tertiary recycled water for agricultural irrigation by
CSIP , or (3) discharged to the ocean , blended with varying amounts of AWPF RO
concentrate and hauled saline waste. As such, the amount s of secondary effluent ,
RO concentrate, and saline wast es discharged through the outfall will vary
throughout the year, with summer months having very little secondary effluent
when demand for recycled water is high est. Because of the variability in
composition and flow of the effluent , four dilution factors (Dms) —each
corresponding to expected ratios of RO concentrate and hauled saline waste to
total effluent and the associated modeled mixing rates —have been developed to
implement water quality standards in this Order .
To inform development of the previous permit, R3 -2018 -0017 , the Discharger
submitted a near -field mixing zone analysis ,8which determined available dilution
for discharges through the M1W outfall diffuser based on an AWPF production
rate of 5 MGD of purified water. On September 15, 202 3, the Discharger
submitted a n update to the near -field mixing zone analysis9to reflect the AWPF
expansion and to include the updated ambient water quality dataset. In both
analyses, the Discharger used the EPA -approved Visual Plumes UM3 Model to
conduct modeling of the discharge through the ocean outfall. In conducting
modeling, the Discharger used conservative assumptions and inputs for
temperature and density profile (highly stratifi ed) and zero velocity for ambient
current. In addition, the Discharger ran the model under three separate oceanic
conditions: upwelling, oceanic, and Davidson. Of the three oceanic conditions, the
upwelling conditions produced the lowest (most conservative) results. Using the
upwelling model results, the Discharger developed dilution estimates for 36
8Larry Walker Associates (2017), Near -field Mixing Zone and Dilution Analysis for Monterey One Water .
Technical Memorandum to Bob Holden and Alison Imamura at Monterey One Water, and Elaine Howe
and Brie Webber at Trussell Technologies , November 15, 2017.
9Larry Walker Associates (2023 ), Near -Field Mixing Zone and Dilution Analysis for M1W and the
Expanded PWM Project . Technical Memorandum to Alison Imamura at Monterey One Water and Brie
Post at Trussell Technologies. September 6, 2023.
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER R3-2024 -0045
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES CA0048551
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8scenarios of RO concentrate and secondary effluent flow rates . Of the 36
scenarios, the Discharger proposed four minimum probable initial dilution factors
(Dms), shown in Table F -3 below, for use in implementing

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger expects to complete expansion of the AWPF by the end of 2025 . In
addition, M1W is developing plans to accept hauled -in food waste at the RTP for
co-digestion with sludge. Initial deliveries of food waste are projected to occur
during the second quarter of 2024. M1W will notify the Central Coast Regional
Water Board and develop Standard Operating Procedures prior to receiving any
hauled -in digestibl e materials at the RTP.
California America n Water (Cal Am) has proposed a seawater desalination plant to
be located in the City of Marina near the Facility and to use subsurface slant wells
near the coast for feed water . Cal Am has proposed to convey desalination brine
from its desalination plant to a new brine -mixing structure for blending with the
existing wastewater effluent in the M1W outfall from the Facility and then
discharged through a redesigned Discharge Point 001. Planning, infrastructure
design, and water quality analysis will be required prior to the Discharger accepting
brine from Cal Am’s facility .
Cal-Am is currently seeking regulatory approvals and would like to start operating
the desalination plant within this permit term . Because of uncertainty in the scope of
the desalination plant, the probability that the ocean outfall diffuser ports would
need to be modified, and the amount of time necessary to obtain regulatory
approvals, the Discharger is not requesting the permit include Cal Am brine wastes
at this time. A new ROWD will be submitted prior to consideration of reopening or
reissuing the Orde r to accommodate this new discharge, and it will include any new