consists of the constituents
in the most recent National Toxics Rule and California Toxics Rule.
4 Priority Pollutants are defined as U.S. EPA priority toxic pollutants and the list consists of the constituents
in the most recent National Toxics Rule and California Toxics Rule.
If the discharge is intermittent rather than continuous, then on the first day of each such intermittent
discharge, the Discharger shall monitor and record data for all of the constituents listed above, after which the frequencies of analysis given in the schedule shall apply for the duration of each such
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2002-0157 - 3 -
TRUSTEES OF U.A. LOCAL 38 CONVALESCENT TRUST FUND
KONOCTI HARBOR RESORT & SPA LAKE COUNTY
intermittent discharge. In no even t shall the Discharger be required to monitor a nd record data more
often than twice the frequenc ies listed in the schedule.
EFFLUENT MONITORING – WA STEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Effluent samples shall be collected downstream from the last connection through which wastes can be
admitted to the outfall. Effluent samples should be representative of the volume and quality of the discharge. Time of collection of samples shall be recorded. Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:
Constituents
Units Type of SampleSampling
Frequency
20°C BOD 5 mg/l Grab Monthly
Suspended Solids mg/l Grab Bi-weekly Settleable Solids ml/l Grab Weekly Total Dissolved Solids mg/l Grab Quarterly Specific Conductance (EC) μmhos/cm Grab Weekly
PH Number Grab Weekly Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml Grab Monthly Flow mgd Meter Continuous Chlorine Residual mg/l Grab Weekly
If the discharge is intermittent rather than continuous, then on the first day of each such intermittent
discharge, the Discharger shall monitor and record data for all of the constituents listed above, after which the frequencies of analysis given in the schedule shall apply for the duration of each such intermittent discharge. In no even t shall the Discharger be required to monitor a nd record data more
often than twice the frequenc ies listed in the schedule.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

