Existing Facility, Pro posed Facility, and Discharge
7. An existing WWTP is in operation at the site serving the mobile home units. Historically,
the existing WWTP served all of Oakwood Lake Resort, which provided water slides,
campgrounds, and a concert venue. Although the resor t closed in 2005, the mobile homes
are still occupied. The existing wastewater system is operating to treat wastewater from
the mobile homes. Presently, the WWTP is being expanded to provide better treatment for
the wastewater that will be generated in t he future land development.
8. The WWTP is being constructed to treat wastewater from new residential and commercial
developments. The developments will be constructed in phases; initially, the existing flow
from the mobile home park will be treated (approxi mately 15,000 gallons per day (gpd)).
The first phase of development will generate a total of approximately 55,000 gpd of
domestic wastewater. The second phase of development is expected to bring the total
wastewater flow rate to 136,200 gpd. The treatm ent system equipment will be constructed
as part of the Phase I development. Land application areas and recycled water storage
ponds will be constructed in phases.
9. The Dischargers have reported that they intend to connect to the City of Manteca
wastewater collection system when it is available. The RWD reports, based on
conversations with the City of Manteca, treatment capacity should be available in 10 to 15
years.
10. The treatment plant will provide tertiary treatment and disinfection using a sequential ba tch
reactor (SBR) system. The treatment system consists of screening, SBR, flow
equalization, sand filtration, disinfection, effluent pumping, and land application. Sludge
will be digested and stored on -site pending off -site disposal. A treatment system flowchart
is presented in Attachment D, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by
reference. Each of the treatment components is further described below.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 3
11. Wastewater will be delivered to the treatment system from three pump stations; one
located adjacent to the treatment plant site and two located within the housing
developments.
12. Influent wastewater will be screened with a fine mesh self -cleaning gravity screen to
remove larger solids and grit that could damage pumps or interfere with down stream
process equipment. Screenings and grit will be stored in a covered container for disposal
at an off -site location.
13. Wastewater flow rate will be measured with a magnetic flow meter. A totalizer will record
the cumulative flow quantity.
14. Screened w astewater will be treated using an SBR process. The SBR will consist of a
200,000 gallon lined basin that will be aerated and mixed using floating aerators. The
aerators will be cycled on and off to create anoxic conditions to facilitate denitrification.
The SBR is anticipated to perform four cycles per day. Excess sludge will be wasted to
the sludge storage basin.
15. Flow from the SBR will be equalized in a secondary effluent storage basin with a storage
capacity of approximately 49,000 gallons. Wastewat er from the effluent storage basin will
be pumped through sand filters. A polymer (polyaluminum chloride) will be added to the
discharge to increase the efficiency of the sand filters.
16. Duplex sand filters will be used to remove suspended solids in the w astewater that remains
after clarification. Solids removed by the filters will be flushed in backwash water and
returned to the SBR basin.
17. Disinfection will be performed by addition of hypochlorite to the sand filter effluent. Duplex
hypochlorite feed un its will be used for redundancy. The contact chamber will consist of a
24-inch diameter pipe to maximize contact time.
18. Disinfected wastewater will flow by gravity to the effluent storage basin. From the effluent
storage basin the treated wastewater will be pumped to lined recycled water storage
reservoirs.
19. Sludge will discharged to the sludge storage basin for digestion and thickening. Decant
water from the basin will be returned to the SBR pond. Sludge will be hauled off -site for
disposal.
20. An emergency storage reservoir will be available for storage of wastewater during a
malfunction of the treatment plant and when effluent doesn’t meet effluent requirements.
The emergency storage reservoir will provide approximately 233,000 gallons of storage
capacity .
21. The wastewater system includes provisions for component malfunction and primary power
outage. Critical mechanical components have duplex units or available spare parts. The
control system will monitor the status and performance of equipment. An alarm will
automatically dial system operators if a problem is detected by the control system.
22. A 100 -kilowatt standby power generator will be available for use during power failures.
The generator will automatically start in the event of a power outage. The ge nerator will
also power the wastewater lift station adjacent to the treatment plant.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 4
23. Recycled water will be stored in the effluent holding basin after disinfection. During
Phase I, effluent storage will be provided in a 23.97 -acre foot reservoir located in the
northeast corner of Oakwood Lake Water District. The location of the pond is presented
on Attachment C.
24. Treatment ponds located at the treatment facility are described below. Recycled water
storage ponds are described in the “Recycled Water Dis charge” portion of this Order. A
summary of the treatment facility ponds, their size, and their liners is presented in the table
below:
Pond Size Use Liner
SBR Pond 200,000 gallons Wastewater Treatment HDPE 40 mil 1
Secondary Effluent 49,000 gallons Flow Equalization HDPE 40 mil 1
Effluent Storage 330,000 Flow
Equalization/Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
Sludge Storage 178,000 Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
Emergency Storage 233,000 gallons Emergency Storage HDPE 40 mil 1

 1 HDPE 40 -mil denotes High D ensity Polyethylene, or equivalent.

25. Storm water that falls on the treatment plant concrete paved areas will be collected and
directed into the system headworks. Storm water that falls on turf areas at the treatment
plant will infiltrate.
26. Because construc tion of these developments is not complete, no site -specific data on
wastewater quality is available. According to the RWD, the projected wastewater
characteristics are presented below:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

