SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 liquid treatment process consists of influent pumps, a septage receiving station,
mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers that wash and
dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, air biological treatment by
activated slud ge, secondary sedimentation, nitrifying sidestream treatment for
ammonia removal, disinfection with sodium hypochlorite , and dechlorination
with sodium bisulfite . The Facility has partially -constructed and partially -
operating Primary Effluent Pump Station (PEPS) and Biological Nutrient
Removal facilit ies. Effluent can be diverted to lined emergency storage basins
(ESB’s), as needed, to meet effluent dilution, thermal, and disinfection
requirements or divert excess flows. Odors are controlled through stripping
towers and carbon treatment.
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility
will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this Order,
consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and
operation are as follows and differs seasonally.
The design capacity of the future Facility will remain 181 MGD. Facility
modifica tion to date include replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological
treatment facilities with biological nutrient removal (BNR) air activated
treatment facilities capable of removing ammonia and nitrate nitrogen. Future
addition include tertiary treatm ent in the form of filtration with granular media
filters, and the increase in the storage capacity. The Facility will continue to be
staffed and operated 24 hours per day and will consist of influent pumps,
septage receiving station, anaerobically digeste d material reception and
storage facility, mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers
that wash and dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, primary
effluent pumping station and peak -shaving storage facilities, BNR air acti vated
sludge treatment, nitrifying sequencing batch reactor for treating high ammonia
concentration waste streams from solids storage basins and biosolids
reclamation facility, secondary sedimentation, secondary effluent screen, filter
influent pumping sta tion, granular media filtration, disinfection with chlorine
liquid in a covered disinfection contact basin, and dechlorination with sodium
bisulfite. Compliant effluent can be diverted to the lined ESB’s, as needed, to
meet effluent dilution and thermal li mits before discharge to the Sacramento
River. Non -compliant effluent, primary influent or effluent, and raw wastewater
can be diverted to the lined ESB’s for any reason, including process upsets, or
diversions for excess flows, and returned to the Facilit y influent for additional
treatment. Odors are to be controlled through biological fixed media scrubbers,
scrubbing tower, chemical oxidizing towers, and carbon treatment towers .
The BNR activated sludge treatment facilities is designed to process up to 33 0
MGD. Flows in excess of 330 MGD will be stored in peak -shaving storage
facilities (ESB’s) and returned for processing through the BNR facilities when
capacity is available. All wastewater will receive advanced secondary treatment
through the BNR faciliti es. The tertiary filters will be designed to process flows
up to 217 MGD, measured as a daily average. This Order requires seasonal
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -01
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 disinfection requirements and the Facility will be operated differently during
each season, as follows:
a. 1 May – 31 Octob er. The Facility will be operated to meet Title 22 or
equivalent disinfection criteria, as described in Special Provision VI.C.6.a.
b. 1 November – 30 April (commencing 1 November 2023):
In the descriptions below, “filtered” means tertiary filtration of B NR effluent
under filter operations consistent with the design hydraulic loading rate
necessary to comply with the Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection criteria.
i. When the BNR effluent flow is 217 MGD, or less, measured as a
daily average, the entire BN R effluent flow will be filtered.
ii. When the BNR effluent flow exceeds 217 MGD, up to 217 MGD will
be filtered and the remaining wastewater will not be filtered. A portion
of the filtered effluent may be reclaimed. The remaining filtered and
non-filtered wastewater will be disinfected and combined with
reclaimed water in excess of demands, prior to the dechlorination
facilities.
One component of the Future Facility is the Tertiary Treatment Facilities
(TTF) project, which will use tertiary filtration and disinfection to treat
secondary effluent from the Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) facility.
The BNR portion of the project is complete. The TTF project is the last
major component in the EchoWater Project to be completed and is
scheduled for completion i n the fall of 2022, followed by testing and
optimization processes. Once the TTF project is fully operational , it will
replace the existing Water Reclamation Facility for producing disinfected
tertiary recycled water, and supply recycled water to the exist ing recycled
water users and future users. The existing recycled water storage tank
and distribution pumping station will remain in service.
3. Biosolids Treatment. Solids are thickened by dissolved air flotation and
gravity belt thickeners. Primary and se condary sludge is mixed. Fats, oils, and
grease from the FOG receiving station may be mixed to the waste and the
mixed waste is sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately 15 days or more,
stored at the sludge stab ilization basins for 3 to 5 years, then harvested and
injected into dedicated lined land disposal sites. Some biosolids are recycled
with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger can dispose
of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option. Separate
WDR’s (Ord er R5 -2015 -0133), in conformance with California Code of
Regulations (CCR), Title 27, division 2, subdivision 1, regulate the biosolids
and solids storage and disposal facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment
units, unclassified solids storage bas ins, and the Class III grit and screening
landfill closure. When the treatment plant upgrades are complete, biosolids
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -01
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8 treatment and disposal will remain unchanged.
4. Groundwater Corrective Action Plan (CAP). The Discharger initiated a CAP
in December 199 5 and is currently regulated under WDR Order R5 -2015 -0133.
The CAP is to address elevated constituent concentrations that were observed
in samples from groundwater monitoring wells down gradient of the dedicated
land disposal areas (DLD’s) and the Class II I landfill when compared to
upgradient groundwater monitoring wells. Extraction wells are used for
hydraulic control of the site. Characterization of the groundwater aquifer is
documented in the reports submitted twice annually pursuant to WDR Order
R5-2015-0133. The Discharger conveys the extracted groundwater from the
CAP extraction wells, at an average pumping rate of approximately 0.4 MGD,
to either the Facility effluent channel downstream of the secondary clarifiers
and upstream of the plant chlorinati on station, or onsite constructed wetlands.
Discharging water from the CAP system downstream of the secondary clarifiers
is acceptable and does not decrease the amount of treatment as the treatment
processes upstream of the discharge point are not designed for removal of the
CAP discharge constituents of concern. Furthermore, based on the extracted
groundwater sampling, estimates of CAP discharge constituent concentrations
are either below current Facility effluent concentrations or do not have a
reasonable potential to violate water quality objectives in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in sect ion II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is constructing
upgrades to the Facility, including replacement of the existing air biological treatment
facilities with BNR air activated treatment facilities capable of removing ammonia
and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with
granular media filters, and an increase in lined ESB facilities. Construction of the
side stream ammonia treatment is complete.
In all, Facility modifications will result in the construction, co mmissioning, and
operation of seven or more new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units: flow
equalization, disinfection chemical storage, biological nutrient removal (phase I and
phase II), nitrifying side -stream treatment, and tertiary treatment faci lities. Biological
nutrient removal and nitrifying side -stream treatment are biological treatment
processes. The start -up and commissioning period (i.e., period of time necessary for
adjusting and testing of new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units) for
projects of this size, while maintaining consistent and ongoing treatment operations,
is a complex undertaking. It involves the gradual transitioning of wastewater
treatment from current plant facilities over to new or reconstructed treatment plant
facilities. Prior to start -up and adjustment, the Discharger intends to submit start -up
operation plans for the period of adjustment and testing to the Central Valley Water
Board for review. The Discharger has indicated that plans will be submitted
separatel y for each of the individual wastewater treatment units and will be
submitted in accordance with the schedule for the individual wastewater treatment
unit in question. Specifically, such plans will be submitted at least 30 days prior to
the period of adjus ting and testing that will take place for each individual wastewater
treatment unit. It is anticipated that the period of adjustment and testing may occur
over several months to over many months, depending on the wastewater treatment
unit. However, potenti al effluent or other permit violations will likely only occur during
certain times of the adjustment and testing period. If the Discharger wishes to apply
for protection from Mandatory Minimum Penalties during the start -up periods, then
pursuant to Water C ode section 13385(j)(1)(D), the Discharger’s start -up operations
plans must include steps that the Discharger will take to prevent violations and
identify the shortest reasonable time required for the period of adjusting and testing
that could result in ef fluent or permit violations. The Central Valley Water Board will
work with the Discharger to identify the appropriate steps and actions to be taken to
minimize the potential for Mandatory Minimum Penalties.
III.