7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:

a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids;

b. A schematic diagram showing sl udge handling facilities and solids flow
diagram; and

c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information
related to the disposal methods us ed at the WWTF. If more than one
method is used, include the percent age of sludge production disposed of
by each method.

i. For landfill disposal , include (a) the Order numbers that
regulate the landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the
landfill(s) used, and (c) the names and locations of the facilities
receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s),
and (b) the Order number of any WDRs that regulates the
site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the
site(s) where sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0140 10
PACIFIC US REAL ESTATE SILVERTIP RESORT VILLAGE MARIPOSA COUNTY
 of WDRs that regulate the site(s ), (c) the disposal method of
ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash
(if applicable); and
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b)
the order numbers of any WDRs that r egulate the site(s).

8. A summary of all recycled water operati ons for the previous year (i.e., from
October through September). The summary shall di scuss total monthly water
application; total wastewater recycled annual ly; total nutrient loading annually from
applied wastewater, biosolids, and chemical fertilizers; and total estimated amount
of nutrients removed through crop harvest. The summary shall also review the
Use Area Management Plan and make reco mmendations regarding continuation
or modification of the plan. In short, the summary shall present a mass balance
relative to constituents of concern and hydraulic loading along with supporting data
and calculations.
 9. A summary and discussion of the complianc e record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report sha ll also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.

10. A statement regarding w hether the current operati on and maintenance manual,
and contingency plan, reflect the gr oundwater cleanup system as currently
constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last
reviewed for adequacy.

Groundwater and Surface Water: An Annual Monitoring Report shall be
prepared as a fourth quarter monitoring r eport. The Annual Monitoring Report will
include all groundwater and surface wa ter monitoring data required in the
monthly/quarterly groundwater monitoring sc hedule plus the results of any annually
sampled constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual
Monitoring Report shall be submi tted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the
year following the year th e samples were collected. In addition to the data
normally presented in the quarterly moni toring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
 2. Graphs of the analytical data for a ll samples collected from each monitoring
well for at least five calender years. Each such graph shall plot over time for
a given monitoring well the concentrati on of one or more waste constituents
specified herein and selected in conc urrence with Regional Water Board
staff. Graphs shall be plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or
variations in water quality, and shall plot each datum, rather than plotting
mean values.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0140 11
PACIFIC US REAL ESTATE SILVERTIP RESORT VILLAGE MARIPOSA COUNTY

3. All monitoring data obtained during the previous monitring events for at least
the last five calendar years.

All technical reports required herein must be overseen and certif ied by a California
registered civil engineer, cert ified engineering geologist, or ce rtified hydrogeologist in
accordance with California Business and Pr ofessions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and
7835.1. All reports submitted in response to th is Order shall comply with the signatory
requirements in Standard Provision B.3. A transmittal letter shall accompany each self -monitoring report. The letter shall discuss
any violations during the repor ting period and all actions ta ken or planned for correcting
violations, such as operation or facility m odifications. If the Discharger has previously
submitted a report describing corrective ac tions and/or a time schedule for implementing
the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The Discharger shall implement the above m onitoring program on t he first day of the
month following adopti on of this Order.


 Ordered by : __________________________________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 __________26 October 2007___________

 (Date)
 jsp/DKP/kes 10/05/07
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
PACIFIC US REAL ESTA TE GROUP
SILVER TIP RESORT VILLAGE
MARIPOSA COUNTY
ATT ACHMENT ASITE LOCATION MAP
ORDER NO. R5 - 2007-0140
SCALE
1 INCH = 2,000 FEETZMap Source:
FISH CAMP 7.5 Minute USGS QuadrangleSection 23, T05S, R21E, MDB&MR 22 E R 21 ET 05 SPROPOSED
 RESORT
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
PACIFIC US REAL ESTA TE GROUP
SILVER TIP RESORT VILLAGE
MARIPOSA COUNTY
ATT ACHMENT BSITE PLAN MAP
ORDER NO. R5 - 2007-0140
Z
SCALE IN FEET
250 250 500 0MW - 1
S1Monitoring Well
Supply WellLEGEND
Note: All well locations and resort features shown
are approximate.41
Big Creek APPROXIMATE
PROPERTY BOUNDARY
Fish CampS3
S4
S2Y2 Y1
S5
MW - 1
MW - 2
MW - 3
S1Approximate
Leachfield AreaApproximate
Location of ResortApproximate
Spray Field Area
Approximate
Spray Field AreaApproximate
Location of WWTF
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
PACIFIC US REAL ESTA TE GROUP
SILVER TIP RESORT VILLAGE
MARIPOSA COUNTYATT ACHMENT CWASTEWATER TREA TMENT PLANT FLOW DIAGRAM
ORDER NO. R5 - 2007-0140
ATT ACHMENT DNONPOTABLE WATER INTERNA TIONAL SYMBOL
ORDER NO. R5 - 2007-0140
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
PACIFIC US REAL ESTA TE GROUP
SILVER TIP RESORT VILLAGE
MARIPOSA COUNTY
WDRs ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS



 Prior to installation of groundwater monitoring we lls, the Discharger shall submit a work plan
containing, at a minimum, the information listed in Section 1, below. Wells may be installed
after staff approve the work plan. Upon inst allation, the Discharger shall submit a well
installation report that includes the information c ontained in Section 2, below. All work plans
and reports must be prepared under the direction of, and certified by, a California registered
geologist or civil engineer.
SECTION 1 - Monitoring Well Installation Work Plan and
Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan

The monitoring well installation work plan s hall contain, at a minimum, the following
information: A. General Information: Purpose of the well installation project Brief description of local geologic and hydrogeologic conditions Proposed monitoring well locations and rationale for well locations Topographic map showing facility location, roads, and surface water bodies
 Large-scaled site map showing all existing on-site wells, proposed wells, surface water
bodies and drainage courses, buildings, wa ste handling facilities, utilities, and
major physical and man-made features
 B. Drilling Details: On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities Description of drilling equipment and techniques Equipment decontamination procedures Cuttings disposal methods
 Soil sampling intervals (if appropriate); logging methods; number and location of soil
samples and rationale; and sample collection, preservation, and analytical methods

C. Monitoring Well Design (in graphic form wit h rationale provided in narrative form):
 Diagram of proposed well construction details
- Borehole diameter
- Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
- Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws)
- Anticipated depth of well, length of well casing, and length and position of
perforated interval
- Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand pack
- Anticipated screen slot size and filter pack

WDRs Order No. R5-2007-0140 - 2 -
Attachment E - Standard Requirements For
Monitoring Well Installation Work Plans And
Monitoring Well Installation Reports



 D. Well Development (not to be performed unt il at least 48 hours after sanitary seal
placement):
 Method of development to be used (i.e., surge, bail, pump, etc.)
 Parameters to be monitored during development and record keeping technique Method of determining when development is complete Disposal of development water E. Well Survey (precision of vertical su rvey data shall be at least 0.01 foot):
 Identify the Licensed Land Surveyor or Civil Engineer that will perform the survey
 Datum for survey measurements List well features to be surveyed (i.e., top of casing, horizontal and vertical coordinates,
etc.)
 F. Schedule for Completion of Work G. Appendix: Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP)
The Groundwater SAP, a guidance document t hat is referred to by individuals
responsible for conducting groundwater moni toring and sampling activities, shall
contain, at a minimum, a detailed writt en description of standar d operating procedures
for:
• Equipment to be used during sampling
• Equipment decontamination procedures
• Water level measurement procedures
• Well purging (include a discussion of procedures to follow if three casing
volumes cannot be purged)
• Monitoring and record keeping during water level measurement and well purging
(include copies of record keeping logs to be used)
• Purge water disposal
• Analytical methods and r equired reporting limits
• Sample containers and preservatives
• Sampling
 - General sampling techniques - Record keeping during sampling (i nclude copies of record keeping logs to
be used) - QA/QC samples
• Chain of Custody
• Sample handling and transport

WDRs Order No. R5-2007-0140 - 3 -
Attachment E - Standard Requirements For
Monitoring Well Installation Work Plans And
Monitoring Well Installation Reports



 SECTION 2 - Monitoring Well Installation Report

The monitoring well installation report must provi de the information listed below. In addition,
the report must also clearly identify, descri be, and justify any deviations from the approved
work plan. A. General Information: Purpose of the well installation project Number of monitoring wells installed and identifying label(s) for each Brief description of geologic and hydr ogeologic conditions encountered during well
installation
 Topographic map showing facility location, roads, surface water bodies
 Large-scaled site map showing all previ ously existing wells, newly installed wells,
surface water bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities,
utilities, and other major physi cal and man-made features.
 B. Drilling Details (in narrative and/or graphic form): On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities Drilling contractor and driller’s name Description of drilling equipment and techniques Equipment decontamination procedures Well boring log (provide for each well)
- Well boring number and date drilled
- Borehole diameter and total depth
- Total depth of open hole (i.e., total depth drilled if no caving or back-grouting
occurs)
- Depth to first encountered groundw ater and stabilized groundwater depth
- Detailed description of soils encountered, using the Unified Soil Classification
System

C. Well Construction Details (provide for each well): Well construction diagram including:
- Monitoring well number and date constructed
- Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
- Length of well casing
- Length and position of slotted casing and size of perforations
- Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand
pack
- Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws)
 E. Well Development (provide for each well): Date(s) and method of development
WDRs Order No. R5-2007-0140 - 4 -
Attachment E - Standard Requirements For
Monitoring Well Installation Work Plans And
Monitoring Well Installation Reports



 How well development completion was determined
 Volume of water purged from well and method of development water disposal F. Well Survey (provide for each well):
 Reference elevation at the top rim of the well casing with the cap removed (feet above
mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
 Ground surface elevation (
feet above mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
 Horizontal geodetic location, where the point of beginning shall be described by the
California State Plane Coor dinate System, 1983 datum, or acceptable alternative
(provide rationale)
 Present the well survey report data in a table G. Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling Sample identification
How well was purged Analytical methods used How many well volumes purged Labor atory analytical data sheets
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization Water level elevation(s)
Sample collection, handling, and preservation
methods Groundwater contour map
 H. Soil Sampling (if applicable): Date(s) of sampling Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods Sample identification Analytical methods used Laboratory analytical data sheets Present soil sampling data in a table I. Well Completion Report(s) (as defined in Ca lifornia Water Code §13751). Blank forms are
available from California Department of Water Resources’ website
www.water.ca.gov .
Submit this section under separate cover.
 J. Appendix - include, at a minimum, copies of the following: County-issued well construction permits Registered engineer or licensed su rveyor’s report and field notes
 Field notes from well development

INFORMATION SHEET
 ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140 PACIFIC US REAL ESTATE GROUP SILVERTIP RESORT VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY MARIPOSA COUNTY
 Background
The Pacific US Real Estate Group (Discharger) proposes to construct and operate a
wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility (WWTF) at the proposed SilverTip
Resort Village in Fish Camp, Mariposa County (Resort). The WWTF was designed and constructed to process all of the wastewater generated from the Resort. No outside sewer
mains will be connected to the Resort WWTF. The WWTF will be designed to have a monthly
average daily flow of 33,500 gallons per day (gpd) and a peak daily flow of 74,000 gpd.
 A portion of the property previously contained t he original SilverTip Resort, which included a
hotel and restaurant. The hotel burned down in 1981 and the restaurant has been vacant
since. The Regional Water Board issued a Cl ean Up and Abatement order in August 1980 to
the then property owner Mr. Robert Keller in re sponse to the surfacing of sewage in the
adjacent meadow due to septic tank overfl ow. BSK and Associates evaluated the then
existing septic system and prepared a report in January 1981 indicating the existing septic
system was undersized for the load it was su staining and provided plans for enlarging the
system. The work was not completed due to t he fire that destroyed the hotel. The former
septic system is not an issue with the proposed Resort as wastewater will now be tertiary
treated before disposal either in a new leachfield or spray field areas.
 The Discharger submitted a report of waste di scharge (RWD) dated 25 August 2004, for a new
WWTF to serve the proposed Resort. The pr oposed WWTF will consist of a septic tank
effluent wastewater collection system and a te rtiary wastewater treatment system. The
treatment process will include flow equalization, trickling filter secondary treatment with
interstage clarification, denitrific ation, microfiltration, and ultrav iolet light disinfection. The
effluent quality will comply with DHS Title 22 CCR st andards for ‘”disinfected tertiary recycled
water.” The Discharger proposes to discharge tertiary tr eated wastewater to a leachfield during the
winter months (approximately November through April) and will be used for landscape
irrigation and toilet flushing during the summer mont hs (typically from May through October).
Recycled water will also be used to fill a 510,000 to 750,000 gallon effluent storage tank. The tank allows wastewater to be applied at contro lled rates to the leachfield and spray fields and
allows use of wastewater for fire suppression activities.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
The accumulated solids in the septic tanks will require periodic removal and disposal. Septage
will be removed by a conventional septic tank va cuum truck and disposed of at a regional
septage disposal facility approved by Mariposa C ounty. Screenings from the microfiltration
process are estimated to generate about 3,000 to 6,000 gallons per month of total liquid solids
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140 -2-
US PACIFIC REAL ESTATE GROUP SILVERETIP RESORT VILLAGE

 including septage removal. Disposal options in clude liquid disposal by tanker truck and/or
dewatered residual disposal by solid waste transport. The final method has not been determined at this time and will require approval from Mariposa County.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, a nd Regulatory Considerations
One of the greatest long-term problem facing Calif ornia’s groundwater is increasing salinity.
The Tulare Lake Basin Plan’s salt m anagement requirements have been successfully
implemented for several decades. Widespread and long-term compliance with these requirements justify them as appropriate best practicable control measures for salinity
applicable to discharges in the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins. The Regional
Board encourages proactive management of waste streams by dischargers to control addition
of salt through use, and has established an increment al electrical conductivity (EC) limitation of
500 umhos/cm as the measure of the maximu m permissible addition of salt constituents
through use. A more restrictive limitation on salt constituents added through use is appropriate
where necessary to assure compliance with a groundwater limitation for any constituent
established by the Regional Water Board.
Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, “Statement of
Policy With Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters in California,” or “Antidegradation
Policy” require that waters of the State that are better in qualit y than established water quality
objectives be maintained “consistent with the ma ximum benefit to the people of the State.”
Waters can be of high quality for some constit uents or beneficial uses and not others. Policy
and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan. Certain domestic wastewater constituents ar e not fully amenable to waste treatment and
control and it is reasonable to expect some impact on groundwater. The Order acknowledges
that some degradation may occur as a result of t he application of tertiary treated wastewater to
land. Mariposa County adopted a Statement of Ove rriding Considerations that concluded that
the benefits of the project were sufficient to ov erride any unmitigated impacts. The overriding
considerations include: the high quality, hist oric architectural style of the buildings;
reinforcement of Fish Camp as a community c enter in furtherance of the County General Plan;
lack of feasible alternative sites; generation of substantial revenue; and evidence that market
forces support such a project. Based on the analyses in Mariposa County’s EIR and its Statement of Overriding Considerations, and the state-of-the-art treatment and control
practices described below, such degradation is c onsistent with maximum benefit to the people
of the State and consistent with the Antidegradation Policy.

Treatment Technology and Control
The Discharger provides treatment and contro l of the discharge that incorporates:
a. Alarm and automatic flow diversion system s to prevent system bypass or overflow;
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140 -3-
US PACIFIC REAL ESTATE GROUP SILVERETIP RESORT VILLAGE

 b. A nitrogen removal treatment process;
c. Microfiltration of treated effluent; d. UV Disinfection of treated effluent; e. Recycled water application at plant uptake (for nitrogen and water) rates;
f. Appropriate biosolids storage and disposal practices; g. An Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manual; and h. Certified operators (minimum Grade III) to insure proper operation and maintenance.
Groundwater Conditions
Regional groundwater is contained in both fractur ed bedrock and to a lesser extent in alluvial
deposits overlying the bedrock. The Discharger has indicated the direction of groundwater
flow is to the north/northeast near the leachfie ld. The depth to shallow groundwater is about
10 to 45 feet bgs with groundwater being clos er top the surface in the meadow area and
greater beneath the forested slope areas. This uppermost groundwater layer is reported to be
separated from the underlying bedrock aquifer by unfractured bedrock that acts as a semi-
confining layer or aquitard. Depth to groundwat er data for the SilverTip resort bedrock wells
(STR1 through STR5) indicates the deeper frac tured bedrock wells have groundwater depths
ranging from about 60 to 115 feet bgs. Analytical results for samples of both the sha llow and deeper aquifers indicate excellent water
quality. A surface water sample from Big Creek was reported to have electrical conductivity
(EC) concentration of 119 micromhos per centimet er (umhos/cm), total dissolved solids (TDS)
concentrations of about 87 milligrams per liter (mg /L), a pH of 7.59 standard pH units (su), and
a chloride concentration of 1.7 mg/L. Bedrock wa ter samples indicate similar concentrations
with EC concentrations between 157 and 188 umhos /cm, TDS concentrations of 111 to 123
mg/L, pH values of 6.99 to 7.31, and chlori de concentrations from non-detect to 3.5 mg/L.
Title 27
Title 27, CCR, section 20005 et seq. (Title 27) , contains regulations to address certain
discharges to land. Title 27 establishes a wa ste classification system, specifies siting and
construction standards for full containment of cla ssified waste, requires extensive monitoring of
groundwater and the unsaturated zone for any i ndication of failure of containment, and
specifies closure and post-closure maintenance requirements. Gener ally, no degradation of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

