existing facility. Continued construction will be performed in phases; the first phase will allow treatment of approximately 55,000 gpd of domestic wastewater. The second phase of development is expected to generate 136,200 gpd. Treatment system equipment, recycled water storage ponds, and some land application areas will be constructed as part of the Phase I development. Additional land application areas and recycled water storage ponds will be constructed in Phase II.

The Discharger has reported an intention to connect to the City of Manteca wastewater collection system when capacity in that system is available. The Discharger anticipates capacity should be available in 10 to 15 years.

The treatment plant will provide tertiary treatment and disinfection using a Sequential Batch Reactor
(SBR) system. The treatment system consists of screening, SBR, flow equalization, sand filtration,
disinfection, effluent pumping, recycled water storage, and land application. Sludge will be digested and stored on-site pending off-site disposal. Wastewater will be delivered to the treatment system from three pump stations; one located adjacent to the treatment plant site and two located within the housing developments.

Addition of storage ponds and land application areas can be accomplished through submittal of technical reports and Recycled Water Expansion Reports (RWERs) that must be approved by the Executive Officer prior to increased discharge. This Order will allow the wastewater flow rate to grow to a
maximum of 136,200 gpd. However, it does not guarantee that the maximum wastewater flow rate will be allowed.
INFORMATION SHEET -2-
ORDER NO. R5-2006-0114
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT AND BECK PROPERTIES, INC. WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

The Discharger has identified approximately 30 acres of land application areas, and 50.3 ac•ft of storage
pond capacity.

All the wastewater treatment, treatment and/or storage ponds, and recycled water storage ponds will be
lined with 40-mil thick HDPE liners. An emergency storage reservoir will be available for storage of wastewater during a malfunction of the treatment pl ant and when effluent does not meet effluent
requirements. The wastewater system includes provisions for component malfunction and primary power outage. Critical mechanical components have dupl ex units or available spare parts. The control
system will monitor the status and performance of equipment. An alarm will automatically dial system operators if a problem is detected by the control system. A 100-kilowatt standby power generator will be available for use during power failures. The genera tor will automatically start in the event of a power
outage. The generator will also power the wastewat er lift station adjacent to the treatment plant.
Operation of the generator will also alert operating personnel to the malfunction.

Recycled water will be applied during spring, summer, and fall months but if conditions allow, application during winter months is acceptable. Recycled water will be applied to cropped land application areas. Land application areas consist of landscaped areas and turf areas. Recycled water will be applied by drip irrigation or sprinklers at agronomic rates for both nitrogen and water application. Irrigation tailwater will be controlled using perimeter berms, grading the area to prevent off-site drainage, and/or management controls.

Solids and Biosolids Disposal

Screenings and grit removed from the wastewater will be dewatered and sent to a dumpster, prior to being hauled off-site to the local landfill for disposal . Sludge will discharged to the sludge storage basin
for digestion and thickening. Decant water from the basin will be returned to the SBR pond. Sludge will be hauled off-site for disposal.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

Surface water from the WWTP is to the San Joaquin River (within the Sacramento San Joaquin Delta). The Water Quality Control Plan for the California Regional Water Quality Control Board Central
Valley Region, Fourth Edition (Basin Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality
objectives, and contains implementation plans and policies for all waters of the Basin. Beneficial uses often determine the water quality objectives that apply to a water body. For example, waters designated as municipal and domestic supply must meet the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for drinking waters. The Basin Plan sets forth the applicable beneficial uses (industrial, agricultural, and domestic and municipal supply in this instance) of groundw ater, procedure for application of water quality
objectives, and the process for and factors to consider in allocating waste assimilation capacity.



INFORMATION SHEET -3-
ORDER NO. R5-2006-0114
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT AND BECK PROPERTIES, INC. WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

Antidegradation

The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, “Statement of Policy With
Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters in California,” or “Antidegradation Policy” require that waters of the State that are better in quality than established water quality objectives be maintained “consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State.” Waters can be of high quality for some constituents or beneficial uses and not others. Policies and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan.

Resolution 68-16 is applied on a case-by-case, constituent-by-constituent basis in determining whether a certain degree of degradation can be justified. It is incumbent upon the Discharger to provide technical information for the Regional Board to evaluate that fully characterizes:

• All waste constituents to be discharged;
• The background quality of the uppermost layer of the uppermost aquifer;
• The background quality of other waters that may be affected;
• The underlying hydrogeologic conditions;
• Waste treatment and control measures;
• How treatment and control measures are justified as best practicable treatment and control;
• The extent the discharge will impact the quality of each aquifer; and
• The expected degree of degradation below water quality objectives.

In allowing a discharge, the Regional Board must comply with CWC Section 13263 in setting appropriate conditions. The Regional Board is required, relative to the groundwater that may be affected by the discharge, to implement the Basin Plan and consider the beneficial uses to be protected along with the water quality objectives essential for that purpose. The Regional Board need not authorize the full utilization of the waste assim ilation capacity of the groundwater (CWC 13263(b)) and
must consider other waste discharges and factors that affect that capacity.

Certain domestic wastewater constituents are not fully amenable to waste treatment and control and it is reasonable to expect some impact on groundwater. Some degradation for certain constituents is consistent with maximum benefit to the people of California because the technology, energy, water recycling, and waste management advantages of muni cipal utility service to the State far outweigh the
environmental impact of a community that would otherwise be reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater systems. Economic prosperity of local communities is of maximum benefit to the people of California, and therefore sufficient r eason to accommodate wastewater discharge provided
terms of reasonable degradation are defined and met. The proposed Order authorizes some degradation
consistent with the maximum benefit to the People of the State but does not authorize pollution (i.e., violation of any water quality objective).

Groundwater monitoring has been conducted at the site but the area monitored is large and some data
was collected without sampling and analysis plans or quality assurance plans; therefore staff are unable
INFORMATION SHEET -4-
ORDER NO. R5-2006-0114
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT AND BECK PROPERTIES, INC. WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

to establish the most appropriate groundwater limits. In addition, certain aspects of wastewater
treatment and control practices may not be justified as representative of Best Practicable Treatment and Control (BPTC). Reasonable time is necessary to gather specific information about the WRP to make informed, appropriate, long-term decisions. This proposed Order, therefore, establishes interim

===PLANNED CHANGES===

