WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of bar screening; biological treatment ,
including nitrification and denitrification; alkalinity adjustment; secondary sedimentation;
cloth media filtration; and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. A 4-million-gallon emergency
retention basin is available for storage of excess influent flow or partially treated
wastewater. From January 2017 to December 2019, the maximum observed wet weather
effluent flow was 5 MGD.
Sludge processing consists of aerobic digestion and sludge storage basins. The sludge
storage basins provide storage for stabilized solids during wet weather periods and serve
as drying beds during the warm summer months. The facility produces approximately 158
dry metric tons of biosolids annually. Dried sludge is hauled to the West Central landfill,
operated by the City of Redding, for disposal.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
There are no planned changes for the Facility during the term of this Order.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this Facility to surface waters.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
Division 13 of the Public Resources Code. Additionally, the adoption of Title 22
water reclamation requirements for the Facility constitutes permitting of an existing
facility that is categorically exempt from the provisions of CEQA pursuant to
California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plans. Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the applicable Water Quality Control Pla ns.
a. Basin Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fifth Edition, May 2018 that designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to
achieve those objectives for all waters addressed t hrough the plan.
Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan.
The Basin Plan at section 2.1 states that the beneficial uses of any
specifically identified water body generally apply to its tributary streams .
The Basin Plan in Table 2-1, section 2, does not specifically identify
beneficial uses for Churn Creek or the unnamed tributary of Churn Creek ,
but does identify present and potential uses for the Sacramento River from
Shasta Dam to the Colusa Basin Drain, to which Churn Creek is tributary .
In addition, the Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution 88-
63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions,
should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal orORDER R5-2 020-0058
NPDES CA0079511
CITY OF SHASTA LAKE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10domestic supply. Thus, beneficial uses applicable to Churn Creek are as
follows:
Table F-4 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point