Time Schedule Order (TSO) R5- 2014- 0159 on 9 June 2017 to replace the previous
overland flow treatment system. Following a startup period, the Discharger submitted a Provisional Performance Acceptance Certificate regarding the Facility’s secondary and tertiary upgrades on 1 September 2017. The upgraded treatment system at the Facility includes a headworks with a mechanical bar screen, aerated
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5 -2025- 0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0079049

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 grit removal, primary sedimentation, aeration basins including nitrification and
denitrification, secondary clarification, tertiary filtration , chlorine disinfection with
sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination with sodium bisulfite, and reaeration. After
reaeration, effluent is discharged to Willow Slough Bypass at Discharge Point 001.
The Facility sends effluent to the Davis Wetlands and will monitor the effluent to the
Davis Wetlands at Monitoring Location EFF -001. During periods of high rainfall in
winter months, effluent remaining in the Davis Wetlands and mixed with storm water
may also be discharged to the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain, via the restoration Davis
Wetlands , at Discharge Point 002. Water in the unlined wastewater trac ts that
percolate into the groundwater is considered a discharge to groundwater via Discharge Point 004. The Davis Wetlands include a wastewater tract, a storm water
tract, and seven numbered tracts, each constructed with flexibility to flow to adjacent downgradient cells. Tertiary -treated effluent from the F acility is conveyed to the
Davis W etlands wastewater tract , flows through the wastewater tract , through Tracts
6 and 7, before draining into a peripheral ditch which recirculates back to the
wastewater tract when it reaches capacity . Discharge to Discharge Point 002 occurs
only during significant storm events that cause flooding in the wetlands. Before discharge, the only treatment provided in the wetlands is pH adjustment, as needed.
The stormwater tract no longer receives stormwater runoff from the Facility . The
Davis Wetlands stormwater tracts, along with other tracts , only collect stormwater
from rain or storm events.
The Discharger is implementing a recycled water program which will supply
Conaway Ranch with 1.8 MGD of tertiary treated, disinfected, effluent between
1 May through 31 October of each year. Effluent to Conaway Ranch will be
conveyed through private ditches then discharged to the Main Conaway Canal, a water of the United States, at Discharge Point 003, with water quality mo nitoring
being conducted at Monitoring Location EFF- 001.
Until 2018, the 0.6- acre unlined pond was used as a sludge lagoon to store and
process digested sludge. In 2018, after the new Facility’s biosolids treatment system was put into service the 0.6- acre sludge lagoon was taken out of service. In late
2020/early 2021 the Discharger completed removal of the remaining sludge in the
lagoon. The 0.6- acre unlined pond has a telescoping valve that provides the
Discharger with the ability to drain the pond back to the headworks for treatment
depending on the level set by the Discharger . The pond is currently used as a
stormwater detention basin, which collects stormwater runoff from three drain inlets
located near the dewatering building, sludge storage tank, and secondary clarifier areas. With a storage capacity of 1.9 million gallons (MG), this basin is dedicated
solely to stormwater collection. The stormwater runoff from the overland flow area is collected into a ditch and then pulled from the Stormwater Conveyance Canal using
a portable mechanical pump into the diversion pump station for delivery to the emergency storage ponds.
The Facility utilizes two dedicated unlined emergency storage ponds ; Emergency
Storage Pond 1 and Emergency Storage Pond 2. Emergency Storage Pond 2 receives primary, secondary, and tertiary effluent from the facility but cannot be fully
drained. Emergency Storage Pond 1 receives the same as Emergency Storage
Pond 2 and acts as a backup when Emergency Storage Pond 2 reaches capacity.
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5 -2025- 0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0079049

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 Transfer Structure 3 at the Facility receives either secondary effluent, undisinfected
tertiary effluent, or disinfected/reaerated effluent (approaching noncompliance) to discharge to the e mergency storage ponds. Water in the emergency storage ponds
can either be directed back to Transfer Structure 3 or to the Facility headworks.
Transfer Structure 3 connects Emergency Storage Ponds 1 and 2 and facilitates flow transfers between them .
Stormwater from the Facility is pumped to the S tormwater Conveyance Canal, which
flows north then west and conveys stormwater to the Stormwater/Auxiliary
Emergency Storage Ponds. When the S tormwater Conveyance Canal reaches the
elevation of the culverts, it discharges to these ponds. Per the Discharger, this
occurred approximately twice during the last permit cycle. Since the Facility upgrade
in 2017, the Discharger has not needed to discharge wastewater from the
emergency storage ponds to the Stormwater/Auxiliary Emergency Storage Ponds ,
but requested during this permit renewal to allow for this emergency option in this
and futur e Order s to properly regulate any possible future emergency storage pond
discharges to the Stormwater/Auxiliary Emergency Storage Ponds . The Discharger
would utilize the three former long- term unlined storage ponds as back -up
emergency storage. The wastewater sent to these ponds would be diluted with stormwater and be considered a discharge to groundwater (via Discharge Point 005)
since the water to these ponds cannot be sent back to the Facility headwork s.
Two unlined recycled water storage ponds receive tertiary treated, disinfected
effluent. Since the recycled water storage ponds are not lined and water will be retained in the ponds until distribution, it is considered a discharge to groundwater via Discharge Point 00 6.
The levee around the Facility was designed and built in 2018 to protect the Facility from flooding through a breached Cache Creek levee. The elevation of the perimeter is 35.3 feet. The table below provides volumes for the emergency storage ponds, stormwater/auxiliary emergency storage ponds, stormwater basin, and the Davis
Wetland (Tracts 6, 7, and wastewater tract). Volumes for the emergency storage ponds, stormwater/auxiliary emergency storage ponds, stormwater basin were
provided by the Discharger. Volumes at the Davis Wetlands are per the City of
Davis, Effluent Dilution During Flooding and Reclamation Report (West Yost and
Associates, September 2002) .
Table F- 2 Pond Volumes
Location Units Volume
Emergency Storage Pond 1 Million Gallons 12
Emergency Storage Pond 2 Million Gallons 37
Stormwater/ Auxiliary Emergency Storage
Pond 1 Million Gallons 20
Stormwater/ Auxiliary Emergency Storage
Ponds 2 and 3 Million Gallons 60
Stormwater Basin Million Gallons 1.9
Davis Wetlands Wastewater Tract Million Gallons 81
Davis Wetlands Tract 6 Million Gallons 16
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5 -2025- 0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0079049

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 Location Units Volume
Davis Wetlands Tract 7 Million Gallons 29
1. 2018 Aeration Ponds Decommissioning Report. In September 2018, the
Discharger provided the Wastewater Treatment Plant Aeration Ponds
Decommissioning Final Closure Report (2018 Aeration Ponds Decommissioning
Report ) documenting the final decommissioning activities of the former aeration
ponds , which are now the recycled water storage ponds. This is the only soil
remediation conducted at the locations of the former pond treatment system as of
the issuance of this Order .
 The Discharger initially planned to remove approximately 6 inches of material
from the bottom of each Aeration Pond. In early 2018, approximately 8.25 inches
in depth of material from each Aeration Pond was removed. In June 2018, an additional 18 inches of soil was removed from each Aeration Pond for levee construction purposes, bringing the total depth to 26.25 inches of soil removed from each Pond.
 After the initial 8.25 inches of soil was removed from each a eration pond,
samples of the underlying soil and background soil were collected and analyzed for antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, chromium vi,
cobalt, copper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, silver, thallium, vanadium, zinc, sodium, and total nitrogen. Regional Board staff noted elevated
levels of barium, copper, zinc, and total nitrogen detected in Quadrant 3 of Aeration Pond 2 and requested that additional samples be collected in that quadrant to determine whether the elevated results are anomalous or if parameter concentrations are elevated throughout that quadrant. The Discharger
thus conducted follow -up monitoring as described previously. The preliminary
results of this follow -up event were tabulated with the initial sampling results from
the February event and submitted to the Regional Board. The significantly lower concentrations detected in follow -up samples were consistent with results
obtained from the other three quadrants in Aeration Pond 2 from the initial monitoring event, demonstrating that the original Quadrant 3 composite was not representative of soil conditions throughout that Pond. No remediation activities
were conducted for the Stormwater/Auxiliary Emergency Storage Ponds ,
Emergency Storage Ponds, or Davis Wetlands .
Solids are dewatered using two rotary drum thickeners and then anaerobically digested in two anaerobic digesters, which also receive primary treatment solids.
Digested sludge is transferred to two sludge holding tanks and then dewatered using
two screw presses. Dried biosolids are stored in a non- walled, roofed, asphalt -lined
structure, then hauled to an off -site landfill. The Facility produces approximately 450
dry metric tons of biosolids , annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids are regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. p art 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this F acility to surface waters .
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
Division 13 of the Public Resources Code. Additionally, the adoption of land
discharge requirements for the Facility constitutes permitting of an existing facility
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5 -2025- 0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0079049

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10 that is categorically exempt from the provisions of CEQA pursuant to CCR, title 14, section 15301.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plans. Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the applicable Water Quality Control Plans .
a. Basin Plan . The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control
Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fifth Edition, February 2019 (Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed t hrough the plan.
Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan. The Basin Plan in
Table 2- 1, section 2, does not specifically identify beneficial uses for the
Willow Slough Bypass nor the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain, but does identify present and potential uses for the Yolo Bypass. The Willow Slough Bypass is part of the Yolo Bypass flood protection structure and the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain is located within the Yolo Bypass. Therefore, the beneficial uses for
the Yolo Bypass listed in Table 2- 1 of the Basin Plan apply to the Willow
Slough Bypass and the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain.
The Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution 88- 63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal and domestic supply (MUN). Resolution 88 -63 also states, “ Any body of water which has current
specific designation previously assigned to it by a Regional Board in Water
Quality Control Plans may retain that designation at the Regional Board’s
discretion. ”. The Basin Plan does not specifically assign MUN as a beneficial
use to the Yolo Bypass; therefore, this Order does not apply the MUN beneficial use to discharges from Discharge Point 001 to the Willow Slough Bypass nor from Discharge Point 002 to the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain:
Table F-4 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point