Existing Facility, Facility Improvements, and Discharge
8. The existing WWTF treats and disposes of wa stewater from the unincorporated community
of Lockeford. The WWTF is being expanded and disinfection is being added to provide better treatment for the wastewater that will be generated due to future land development.
Currently, the flow rate varies from 0.24 to 0.29 Million gallons per day (Mgal/day).
9. Wastewater is delivered to the treatment system from two pum p stations; one of the pump
stations is equipped with an alarm that will alert the system operator of malfunctions. The
other pump station is checked on a daily basis. This order requires all pumping stations to
be equipped with alarm systems. Additional pump stations will be added based on need.
10. Wastewater is metered using ultrasonic flow meters at the headworks (prior to treatment),
downstream of treatment/storage ponds and prior to chlorination, and downstream of the
chlorination pipe.
11. Presently, five wastewater ponds exist. Ponds No. 1 through 4 are located at the
Treatment Area; Pond No. 5 is located at L AA No. 1. A sixth pond, Pond No. 6, will be
constructed at LAA No. 2 as part of the Treatment Improvement Project.
12. A wastewater treatment schem atic is presented on Attachment C, which is attached hereto
and made part of this Order by reference. The following summarizes the treatment process:
a. Wastewater is biologically treated in a mechanically aerated treatment pond (Pond
No. 1) prior to discharge to three storage ponds (Ponds No. 2, 3, and 4). The existing treatment capacity is in excess of 0.40 Mgal/day.
b. Wastewater in Ponds No. 2, 3, and 4 has undergone biological treatment but has not
been disinfected. This wastewater is current ly pumped either to Pond No. 5 for storage
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179
LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 3
or to LAA No. 1 for disposal. In this Order, wastewater that is di sinfected is considered
“recycled water.”
c. Effluent disinfection processes will be added as part of the Disposal Improvement
Project. The disinfectant will be chlori ne gas. The chlorine contact chamber will
consist of a 20-inch diameter pipe that is 500 feet long. Recycled water will be pumped
to either Pond No. 5, to Pond No. 6 (when built ), or directly to LAAs No. 1 or 2.
d. Until the disinfection process is operable, the Discharger is prohibited from applying
undisinfected wastewater to land.
13. Pond configurations are expected to change as part of the future Treatment Improvement
Project, which will provide better wastewater treatment and flexib ility of operation.
However, the footprint of the ponds at the Treatment Area will not c hange. The wastewater
ponds are described below:
a. At the Treatment Area, four ponds presently exist.
i) Pond No. 1 is a treatment pond and is equipped with two 10-horsepower brush
aerators and three 7.5-horsepower aspira tor type aerators. The pond does not
contain a synthetic liner. As part of the Treatment Improvement Project, two
10-horsepower brush type mechanical aer ators will be added to the treatment
pond to increase treatment capacity, improv e mixing, and reduce the potential for
short-circuiting in the pond. The pond is 39 ac•ft in size and holds 13-million gallons at two feet of freeboard.
ii) Ponds No. 2, 3, and 4 are used for wast ewater storage but could be converted to
treatment ponds if needed (to allow sludge re moval from Pond No. 1 or other
operation and maintenance needs). The ponds do not contain synthetic liners.
The three ponds hold a total of 156 ac•ft and 51 million gallons at two feet of freeboard.
b. Each LAA will contain a recycled water storage pond. The acreage that the ponds
occupy is not part of the LAA irrigation acreage used in water balance calculations.
i) Pond No. 5 is located at LAA No. 1 and is presently used to store treated
(undisinfected) wastewater; however, in t he future it will store recycled water. The
pond does not contain a synthetic liner. Pond No. 5 will be deepened to increase the storage capacity from the current volume of 40 million gallons (123 ac•ft), to 51
million gallons (157 ac•ft) at two feet of freeboard as part of the Disposal
Improvement Project.
ii) Pond No. 6 will be constructed at LAA No. 2 as part of the Treatment Improvement
Project and will be used to store recycled wate r. As described in the RWD, the
pond will not contain a synthetic liner. The pond will be constructed when sludge
is removed from Pond No. 1 as part of the Treatment Improvement Project, which
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179
LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 4
will remove Pond No. 1 from service temporarily. Pond No. 6 will be 52 ac•ft in
size and will hold 17 million gallons at two feet of freeboard. The parcel for LAA
No. 2 consists of 60 acres; however, only 38 acres are proposed for land application of recycled water because of Pond No. 6 and setbacks from natural
drainages throughout the parcel.
14. The Disposal Improvement Project will consist of the activities listed below. This project will
formally begin when this Order is adopted.
a. Deepening of Pond No. 5 to increase stor age capacity by at least 11 million gallons.
b. Installation of new groundwater monito ring wells for the ponds and land application
areas.
c. Installation of disinfection equipment. d. Improvements on 38 acres to allow the land application of recycled water on LAA
No. 2.
e. Submittal of documentation showing that a legal covenant regarding land use has been
signed with the property owner loca ted south of LAA No. 2.
f. Preparation and submittal of a technica l report documenting completion of the
foregoing.
15. The Treatment Improvement Project will consist of the following activities, and while not
currently scheduled, will be performed two years pr ior to sludge removal from the existing
treatment pond (Pond No. 1):
a. At least 17 Mgal of new storage will be cons tructed as Pond No. 6. The planned site
for the new Pond No. 6 is the northwest corner of LAA No. 2.
b. A storage pond at the Treatm ent Area will be converted to a new 0.4 Mgal/day, two-cell
aerated treatment pond system so that Pond No. 1 can be taken out of service.
c. Once the new storage Pond No. 6 is constructed and a storage pond has been
converted to a treatment pond, Pond No. 1 will be taken out of service, the sludge will
be removed, and Pond No. 1 will be converted into a second 0.4 Mgal/day, two-cell aerated treatment pond system.
d. At the end of the Treat ment Improvement Projec t, the Discharger will have a
0.6 Mgal/day, three-cell treatment plant with a fourth cell in reserve to allow any of the
three cells to be taken out of service for any reason.
e. The Treatment Improvement Project will be initiated when any of the following occurs:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179
LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 5
i) The flow rate is projected to ex ceed 0.4 Mgal/day within 2.5 years;
ii) The treatment system th reatens to violate WDRs.
iii) Sludge becomes problematic in the treatment pond system for any reason.
16. The Discharger has two port able generators. They are used to operate the lift stations and
some of the water supply wells. The Discharger is planning to install an electrical transfer switch at the Treatment Area to run key co mponents such as pumps, instruments, and the
office but will not be completed until 2008. A ll new pump stations are designed with an
emergency generator and automatic transfer switch.
17. Stormwater that falls on the roadways su rrounding the ponds at the Treatment Area drains
into the ponds. Other stormwater falli ng on roofs and paved areas drains to the
surrounding unpaved areas where it infiltrates. St ormwater that falls on turf areas at the
treatment facility will infiltrate.
18. Influent wastewater quality has been characte rized by the Discharger. Based on samples
collected since January 2004 until March 2006, wastewater quality is as follows:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

