1. Annual production totals in dry tons or cubic yards.
2. A description of disposal methods, incl uding the following information related to the
disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage
disposed of by each method.
a. For landfill disposal, in clude: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order
number of WDRs t hat regulate it.
b. For land application, in clude: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that re gulate the site, the disposal method of
ash, and the name and location of the fa cility receiving ash (if applicable).
d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
Use Area reporting
1. The type of crop(s) grown in the Us e Area, and the quantified hydraulic and nitrogen
loading rates in accordance with Table 2.
2. A summary of the notations made in the Use Area monitori ng log during each quarter.
The entire contents of the log do not need to be submitted.
The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the firs t day of the month
following adoption of this Order.


 Ordered by: Original Signed by_________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 _____ 31 October 2011__ _______
 (Date) DMS/WDH: 10/14/2011
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2011-0066
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT
TEJON RANCH COMMERCE CENTER
NEW EAST WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -8-
GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD DO Dissolved oxygen EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen TDS Total dissolved solids TSS Total suspended solids Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Samples shall be a flow-proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected at least every day. Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non-consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non-consecutive
weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per
year) during non-consecutive months.
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April, July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per
year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in
April and October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L milliliters [of solids] per liter
µg/L Micrograms per liter µmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter mgd Million gallons per day MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Mine rals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2011-0066
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT
TEJON RANCH COMMERCE CENTER
NEW EAST WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -9-
Table 1. Priority Pollutant Scan
Inorganics1 Organics 3-Methyl-4-Chlorophenol Hexachlorobenzene
Antimony Acrolein Pentachlorophenol Hexachlorobutadiene
Arsenic Acrylonitrile Phenol Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
Beryllium Benzene 2,4,6-Trichlorophenol Hexachloroethane
Cadmium Bromoform Acenaphthene Indeno(1,2,3-c,d)pyrene
Chromium (III) Carbon tetrachl oride Acenaphthylene Isophorone
Chromium (VI) Chlorobenzene Anthracene Naphthalene
Copper Chlorodibromomethane Benzidine Nitrobenzene
Lead Chloroethane Benzo(a)Anthracene N-Nitrosodimethylamine Mercury 2-Chloroethylvinyl Ether Benz o(a)pyrene N-Nitrosodi-n-Propylamine
Nickel Chloroform Benzo(b)fluoranthene N-Nitrosodiphenylamine
Selenium Dichlorobromomethane B enzo(g,h,i)perylene Phenanthrene
Silver 1,1-Dichloroethane B enzo(k)fluoranthene Pyrene
Thallium 1,2-Dichloroethane Bis(2-chloroethoxy) methane 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
Zinc 1,1-Dichloroethylene Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether Cyanide 1,2-Dichloropropane Bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether Pesticides
Asbestos 1,3-Dichloropropylene Bi s(2-Ethylhexyl)phthalate Aldrin
 Ethylbenzene 4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether alpha-BHC
Dioxin Congeners Methyl Bromide Butylbenzyl Phthalate beta-BHC
2,3,7,8-TCDD Methyl Chloride 2-Chloronaphthalene gamma-BHC (Lindane)
1,2,3,7,8-PentaCDD Methylene Chloride 4-Chlorophenyl Phenyl Ether delta-BHC 1,2,3,4,7,8-HexaCDD 1,1,2,2-Tetr achloroethane Chrysene Chlordane
1,2,3,6,7,8-HexaCDD Tetrachloroethylene (PCE) Dibenzo(a,h)Anthracene 4,4'-DDT
1,2,3,7,8,9-HexaCDD Toluene 1,2-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDE
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HeptaC DD 1,2-Trans-Dichloroethylene 1,3-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDD
OctaCDD 1,1,1-Trichloroethane 1,4-Dichlorobenzene Dieldrin
2,3,7,8-TetraCDF 1,1,2-Trichloroethane 3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine alpha-Endosulfan
1,2,3,7,8-PentaCDF Tric hloroethylene (TCE) Diethy l phthalate beta-Endosulfan
2,3,4,7,8-PentaCDF Vinyl chloride Di methyl phthalate Endosulfan Sulfate
1,2,3,4,7,8-HexaCDF 2-Chlorophenol Di-n-Butyl Phthalate Endrin
1,2,3,6,7,8-HexaCDF 2,4-Dichlorophenol 2,4-Dinitrotoluene Endrin Aldehyde
1,2,3,7,8,9-HexaCDF 2,4-Dimethylphen ol 2,6-Dinitrotoluene Heptachlor
2,3,4,6,7,8-HexaCDF 2-Methyl-4,6-Dinitrophenol Di-n-Octyl Phthalate Heptachlor epoxide
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HeptaCDF 2,4-Dinitrophenol 1,2-Diphenylhyd razine Polychlorinated biphenyls
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-HeptaC DF 2-Nitrophenol Fluoranthene Toxaphene
OctaCDF 4-Nitrophenol Fluorene
1 With the exception of wastewater samples, samples placed in an acid-preserved bottle for me tals analysis must first be
filtered. If filtering in the field is not feasible, samples shall be collected in unpreserved containers and submitted to the
laboratory within 24 hours with a request (on the chain of custody form) to immediately filter then preserve the sample.
2 Samples to be analyzed for volatile compounds and phthalate es ters shall be grab samples; the remainder shall be 24-hour
composite samples.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2011-0066
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT
TEJON RANCH COMMERCE CENTER
NEW EAST WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -10-
Table 2. Use Area Monitoring

Recycled Water Monitoring Data For Year: ________
Parcel No. ______ of _______ acres
 Water application Nitrogen application
 Water
required Effluent
used Other
water
used Total
irrigation
water As
fertilizer As
effluent* Total
nitrogen
applied
Month Crop (AF) (AF) (AF) (AF) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre)
October
November
December
Subtotal:
January
February
March
Subtotal:
April
May
June
Subtotal:
July
August
September
Subtotal:
Annual Total:
* calculated as (AF effluent/acre) x (2.72) x (X mg/l total nitrogen) = lbs nitrogen/acre

INFORMATION SHEET

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. R5-2011-0066
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT
TEJON RANCH COMMERCE CENTER
NEW EAST WASTEWATER TREATEMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY

Background
Currently the Tejon-Castac Water District ( hereafter Discharger) owns and operates the
Tejon Industrial Complex West wastewater treatment facility (West WWTF) located on the
west side of Interstate Five (I-5) at Lav al Road. Waste Disc harge Requirements (WDRs)
Order R5-2008-0004 regulates the West WWTF and allows a monthly average discharge
flow of 0.1 million gallons per day (mgd) of wastewater to two ponds (total storage capacity of
2.39 acres) and to 14-acre of Use Area on the we st side of I-5. The West WWTF provides
sewerage service for a hotel, gas stations, restaurants, shower and restroom areas,
convenience stores, and i ndustrial warehouses.
On July 2009, the Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Disch arge for a proposed new
WWTF (New East WWTF) on the East side of I-5 that will have an init ial design flow of
0.1 mgd. The New East WWTF will serve the same types of businesses as that of the West
WWTF. Therefore, the influent wastewater quality for the New East WWTF will be similar to
that of the West WWTF. According to the RWD, the New East WWTF will produce an
effluent with average biochemical oxygen dem and (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS)
concentrations of 10 mg/L, and an average total nitrogen concentration of less than 10 mg/L.
The New East WWTF consists of: two 1 mm fine screens, a screw compactor, a mixed
anoxic basin, a pre-aeration bas in, two membrane bioreactor (MBR) basins, aerated sludge
tanks, one ultraviolet disinfection unit, one 0.9 million gallon (MG) lined storage pond, one 2
MG unlined storage pond, and approx imately 13 acres of Use Ar ea on the east side of I-5.
The Discharger proposes to expand the New Ea st WWTF in phases to a build out design
capacity of 0.8 mgd in increm ents of 0.1 mgd. Discharge S pecification D.1 outlines the
conditions that the Discharger needs to comply with before increasing the flow.
Groundwater Conditions
Tecuya and Salt Creeks in the southwestern portion of the White Wolf Subarea exhibit total
dissolved solids (TDS) concentrations of 2,000 and 10,000 mg/L, respectively. It appears
that runoff from thes e creeks have affected groundwater in their fan areas, according to
Resolution No. 70-178, Water Quality Control Plan for Groundwater in the White Wolf
Subarea .
Resolution No. 70-178, further discusses that groundwater in the western and southwestern
portion of the White Wolf Subarea adjacent to Tecu ya Creek is of a sodium sulfate character
where TDS concentrations range from 600 to 2,000 mg/L.
Oil fields are major dischargers in the White Wolf Subarea. Five oil fields are located within
or partially within the subarea. The North Tejon oil field is located in section 19 of Township
11 North, Range 19 West of SBB&M, and ext ends underneath the New East WWTF.

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. R5-2011-0066
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT
TEJON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX NEW EAST
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -2-
Produced water from the North Tejon oil fi eld has been characterize as having TDS
concentrations over 37,000 mg/L, chloride over 22,000 mg/L, and boron of 50 mg/L.
Depth to groundwater is approximately 500 feet below ground surface (bgs). The TDS and
Electrical Conductivity (EC) range from 1, 000 mg/L to 1,500 mg/L and 1,500 µmhos/cm to
2,300 µmhos/cm (calculated EC=TDS/0.65), re spectively, in the unconfined aquifer,
according to water quality maps in the Wate r Supply Report developed by the Kern County
Water Agency and published in 2007.
Source Water
Source water for the WWTF is provided by the State Water Project, and by two on-site wells
in emergencies. The 2010 Consumer Confidence Re port indicates that the source water is
relatively good, with an average EC of about 510 µmhos/cm, and NO 3 (as NO 3) of 4.8 mg/L.
Quality of water from the two wells is of poor quality. Aver age EC for the TA Well and Rose
Replacement Well are about 1,360 µmhos/cm and 1,170 µmhos/cm, respectively.
 Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The Basin Plan identifies the gr eatest long-term water quality probl em facing the entire Tulare
Lake Basin is increasing salinit y in groundwater, a process accelerated by man’s activities
and particularly affected by intensive irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan recognizes that
degradation is unavoidable until t here is a long-term solution to the salt imbalance. The
Central Valley Water Board encourages pr oactive management of waste streams by
dischargers to control addition of salt throug h use. Thus the Basin Plan establishes an
incremental effluent EC limit of 500 µmhos/cm ov er source water EC as the measure of the
maximum permissible addition of salt constituent s through use. In addition, the Basin Plan
states that discharges to areas that ma y recharge to good quality groundwater shall not
exceed an EC of 1,000 µmhos/cm, a chloride c ontent of 175 mg/L, or boron content of
1.0 mg/L.
Maximum salinity limits for most wastewater disc harges for most areas ar e those mentioned.
One exception is the White Wolf Subarea, where the subj ect discharge takes place.
Relaxation of some effluent salini ty limits in the White Wolf Su barea is based on the class of
irrigation water underlying the discharge.
The Basin Plan specifies that irrigation waters (underlying groundwater in this case), with an
EC between 1,000–3,000 µmhos/cm, chlorides between 175–350 mg/L, sodium between
60–75 mg/L (percent base constituents), an d boron between 0.5–2 mg /L, be considered
Class II irrigation waters. Based on the quality from the Discharger’s backup source water
well, underlying groundwater is Class II for EC. It is likely that the source water well is of
better quality than first-encounter ed groundwater. Information in the Kern County Water
Agencies 2007 Water Supply Report suggests unc onfined groundwater underlying the facility
has an EC between 1,500 µmhos/cm and 2,300 µmhos/cm. The Basin Plan specifies that
discharges to land in areas overlying Class II or poorer groundwater shall not exceed an EC
of 2,000 µmhos/cm. The quality of the effluent with respect to EC is generally better than
groundwater. This order prescribes groundwa ter EC limitations pursuant to Title 22,

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. R5-2011-0066
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT
TEJON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX NEW EAST
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -3-
California Code of Regulations (CCR), where EC has secondary Maximum Contaminant
Levels (MCLs) of 1,600 µmhos/cm (upper lim it) and 2,200 µmhos/cm (short term limit).
These groundwater limitation proscribes the discharge from causing groundwater EC to
exceed background

===PLANNED CHANGES===

