Flow 3
(mgd)
2007 –2008 47 0.13 0.12 0.19 2008 - 2009 54 0.15 0.12 0.24 2009 - 2010 52 0.14 0.10 0.20
1. October through September (the beginning of the typical rainy season through the end of the typical
dry season).
2. Average daily flow for the months of July through September, which consistent ly exhibit the lowest
precipitation and influent flows.
3. The highest monthly average influent flow during a water year.

The peak month flow is double the amount of the ADWF during the water year 2008 to
2009, which indicates high inflow and infiltration (“I/I”). In December 2010, the Discharger
completed some repair work for the collect ion system, as discussed further below.
7. In March 2010, the City of Plymouth rece ived a new water supply from the Mokelumne
River. This ended the history of using the loca l high-salinity groundwater. According to the
Discharger’s April 2010 test data, the new water supply has an average total dissolved
solid (“TDS”) concentration of 55 mg/L, which is much lower than the TDS concentrations of 325 to 349 mg/L in the groundwater supply based on the 2009 Consumer Confidence
Report for the City of Plymouth. Surface wate r is now the City’s primary water source;
however, the water supply wells will remain as a backup/emergency supply per the Drinking
Water System Permit issued by the Calif ornia Department of Public Health.
8. The WWTF consists of a collection system, two aerated ponds (Ponds 1 and 3), one
unaerated pond (Pond 2), chlorination facilities, a storage reservoir, and the LAAs. All of
the ponds and the reservoir are unlined. Li ttle Indian Creek is located topographically
downgradient from the LAAs and an unnamed tributary passes through the LAAs.
Sludge is hauled off site to a permitted landfill. A current site plan is included in Attachment
B, which is attached hereto and made par t of the Order by reference.
9. The wastewater is treated in Ponds 1 th rough 3. Design data for the existing ponds are
summarized below.
Pond
Depth (feet) Volume (MG) Surface Area
1 8 2 1
2 4.5 2.1 1.6
3 5.5 4.5 2.8

10. The storage reservoir is used for storage of treated and disinfected effluent. The reservoir
has a capacity of 185 acre-feet (60 MG) at tw o feet of freeboard. A diversion ditch around
the storage reservoir has been modified to divert stormwater runoff away from the storage
reservoir.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 3
11. Wastewater is applied to approximately 85 acres of the 125-acre site. The LAAs are
divided into six fields designated Field 1 thr ough 6. The Discharger has installed earthen
berms in Fields 2, 3 and 6 along a portion of Little Indian Creek and the unnamed tributary to
contain tailwater and storm water (see Attachment B). To prevent tailwater and stormwater
runoff from the LAAs entering surface water c ourses, only these three fields with berms can
be used for year-round land application. Fields 1, 4 and 5 currently do not have berms, thus application of wastewater is limit ed to the period of 1 April to 1 November. However, if the
Discharger builds berms or ditches around t hese fields, upon approval by the Executive
Officer, the land application on Fields 1, 4 and 5 may occur throughout the wet season.
12. Hypochlorite is injected to the Pond 3 effluent at the output of the st orage reservoir transfer
pumps. Contact time in the transfer pipeline from the hypochlorite injection point to the
storage reservoir is estimated to be 15 minutes . Additional chlorination for odor control
may take place at the irrigation pumps.
13. The Discharger may move the disinfection syst em to the Pond 3 outlet to allow disinfected
effluent to bypass the storage reservoir and be disc harged directly to the LAAs. In order to
ensure adequate chlorine contact time, this Order requires approval of a technical report
documenting completion of the disinfection system modifications prior to any bypass of the
storage reservoir.
14. Influent samples collected at the headworks and a manhole from the RV Resort have been
characterized as shown below from July 2005 through May 2011.
Influent Wastewater Constituent Concentrations
 Headworks RV Resort
Constituent Units Minimum Maxim um Average Minimum Maximum Average
BOD 1 mg/L 24 1,120 236 17 1,290 248
Total Zinc 2 µg/L 75 326 138 20 1,900 267
Total Phenols 2 µg/L <0.1 62 23 <0.1 330 46
Formaldehyde 2 µg/L 7 380 50 <5 8,800 621
Ammonia 2 mg/L 6.8 52 30 2.6 105 20
 1. Samples were collected monthly.
 2. Samples were collected quarterly.
The significant formaldehyde spike of 8,800 µg/L occurred in February 2007 at the RV
Resort influent sampling station. This is lik ely related to special activities and seasonal
discharge from the RV Resort. Discharges fr om the fairgrounds RV dump station are not
monitored separately; samples from t he RV park dump station are considered
representative of the over all discharge to the WWTF from RV holding tanks.
15. The quality of treated wast ewater prior to discharge to LAAs (effluent) has been
characterized as shown below from July 2005 through May 2011.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 4
Effluent Wastewater Constituent Concentrations
Constituent Units Minimum Maximum Average
BOD 1 mg/L 11 102 31
Total Coliform Organisms 1 MPN/100 mL <2 >2,400 123
pH 1 std 7.6 8.2 7.8
Nitrate as N 2 mg/L 0.05 4 0.8
TDS 2 mg/L 262 788 514
Total Zinc 3 µg/L <5 1,440 110
Total Phenols 3 µg/L <1 31 3
Formaldehyde 3 µg/L <5 120 29
Ammonia 3 mg/L 0.05 9.4 4
 1. Samples were collected weekly.
 2. Samples were collected monthly.
 3. Samples were collected quarterly.
The effluent samples often contained high conc entrations of total coliform organisms in
violation of WDRs Order R5-01-095. The Di scharger states that the effluent coliform
samples may be “old water” taken at spigots lo cated at the spray fields, or may be freshly
disinfected effluent from the pum p station where the chlorinator is located. The Discharger
has since implemented an improved effluent samp ling protocol to verify compliance with
the total coliform organism effluent limit.
16. The RWD includes nutrient loading rates for BOD and total nitrogen. Based on an
assumed average effluent BOD concentration of 40 mg/L, the average BOD loading to the
LAAs is estimated to be approximately 1.35 lb /ac•day with a maximum of 3.30 lb/ac•day in
the summer when the wastewater application rates are greatest. This level is less than the
published design values for BOD loading of up to 100 lb/ac•day and should not cause adverse conditions or odors. The annual nitrogen load for the LAAs is estimated to be 44 lb/ac•year, which is less than the typi cal nitrogen uptake rates of over 200 to
300 lb/ac•year for pasture land cited in the RWD.
Compliance Issues
17. Cease and Desist Order R5-2005-2006 (the “ CDO”) was adopted by the Central Valley
Water Board on 27 January 2005 due to a series of violations, including: a) Tailwater from
LAAs entered the 100-foot buffer zone and su rface drainage courses; b) Wastewater
applications during prohibited periods (winter); c) Dissolved oxygen less than 1.0 mg/L in
wastewater ponds; d) Water quality exceedances for ammonia as nitrogen; e) Inadequate
storage capacity; and f) Failure to submit m onitoring reports on time and technical reports
required by WDRs Order R5-01-095.
18. The CDO required the Discharger to submit a series of reports including: Contingency Plan,
Wastewater Pond Aeration Report, Spra y Irrigation Management Plan and Spray
Improvement Report, Diversion Ditch C onstruction Report, Sludge Management Plan,
Collection System Improvement Report, and RWD. In addition, the CDO has the following
provisions: a) The Discharge shall comply with WDRs Order R5-01-095 except the
ammonia effluent limitation of 0.5 mg/L; b) A monthly ADWF of 97,000 gpd shall not be
exceeded without technical documentation s ubmitted describing storage reservoir
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 5
improvements and an updated water balance; and c) Effluent disposal on LAAs may occur
throughout the wet season.
19. The Discharger completed a number of physi cal improvements in 2005 including additional
pond aeration, stormwater diversion around t he effluent storage reservoir, earthen berms
along a portion of Little Indian Creek and its unnamed tributary. In addition, the sprinklers
near the 100-foot buffer zone were deactivated; Field 6 was retrofitted to sprinkler heads
instead of flood irrigation; an irrigation cont roller was installed for timed and volume
irrigation; and maintenance of the LAAs has increased to prevent tailwater runoff to the surface water drainage course. Technical information, including a description of the
reservoir improvements and an updated water balanc e was provided in support of monthly
a monthly ADWF in excess of 97,000 gpd.
20. The RWD requested relaxation of the 100-foot buffer zone required by WDRs Order R5-01-
095 to 50 feet. A 50-foot setback is adequate to protect water quality.
WWTF Modifications
21. In September 2009, the Discharger received $2.82 million in funding from the State Water
Resources Control Board (“State Water Board ”) for its Phase 1 Sewer Collection System
Rehabilitation Project (Phase 1 project). Phas e 1 project is intended to achieve compliance
with WDRs Order R5-01-095 and the CDO by reducing I/I through collection system
rehabilitation, and restore the original permitted capacity of 0. 17 mgd. The project includes:
a. Rehabilitation of 6,220 linear feet of sewer mains, sealing/repair of 48 manholes and
installation of 1,450 linear feet of underdr ain in the area of high groundwater.
b. Construction of a headworks facility, including a mechanical screen and solids
compactor along with associated electrical and water supply facilities. A new influent
meter was installed downstream of the headworks.
c. Replacement of the single 25-Hp aerator in Ponds 1 and 3 with two 20-Hp aerators
and three 3-Hp aerators, respectively.
d. Replacement of the existing transfer pum p with a new pump and addition of a standby
pump. A new transfer meter was insta lled downstream of the transfer pumps.
e. Installation of a pipe bypass of Pond 1 to Pond 2. Distribution piping between ponds
will be increased to facilitate shunting of water during potential process upsets.
f. Removal of 146 tons of sludge from Pond 1. g. Installation of a concrete sludge drying bed and portable pump for future sludge
removal. The sludge drying bed was built with concrete and is piped so that supernatant drains back into Pond 2 to preclude infiltration of leachate to
groundwater.
In December 2010, the Discharger comp leted the Phase 1 project.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 6
22. The water balance provided in the RWD dem onstrates that the WWTF has capacity for a
monthly average dry weather wastewater infl ow rate of 0.185 mgd, a maximum monthly
inflow rate of 0.261 mgd, and annual total wast ewater inflow rate of 82.5 million gallons
based on a 100-year return period 365-day precipitation event.
Wastewater Collection System
23. The collection system consists of six miles of gravity pipelines, one pump station, and one
private lift station. The pipe diameters r ange from six to ten inches and mostly are
composed of clay and PVC.
24. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the WWTF. Temporary storage and
conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, r egulated impoundments, tan ks, highlines, etc.)
may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges into these facilities are not considered sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within these
temporary storage/conveyance facilities and t hen properly disposed. Sanitary sewer
overflow is also defined in State Water Board Order 2006-0003-DWQ, Statewide General
Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems , which can be found at:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/board_decisi ons/adopted_orders/water_quality/wqo06.
25. Potential causes of sanitary sewer over flows include grease blockages, root blockages,
debris blockages, sewer line flood damage, manhol e structure failures, vandalism, pump
station mechanical failures, power outages, sto rm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack of
capacity, and/or contractor caused blockages.
26. Sanitary sewer overflows often cont ain high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic
organisms, nutrients, oxygen demanding or ganic compounds, oil and grease, and other
wastes. Sanitary sewer overflows can c ause temporary exceedance of applicable water
quality objectives, pose a threat to public health , adversely affect aquatic life, and impair
the public recreational use and aesthetic enjoy ment of surface waters in the area.
Site-Specific Conditions
27. The elevation of the City of Plymouth is approximately 820 feet above mean sea level.
According to the precipitation data from t he California Department of Water Resources
station in Fiddletown, which is located about six miles east of Plymouth, the average annual
precipitation is 37.67 inches per year. Fiddlet own, however, is at an elevation 1,300 feet
higher than Plymouth (elevation 2,160 feet versus elevation 820 feet). Based on data from
Fiddletown and other stations in the area, the 100-year precipit ation value for Plymouth is
adjusted to be 50.93 inches (versus 65.73 inc hes for Fiddletown). The mean reference
evapotranspiration rate is approximately 51.8 in ches per year. All portions of the WWTF
are outside the 100-year flood zone.
28. The facility is within the Hydrologic Un it Area No. 532.21, as depicted on interagency
hydrologic maps prepared by the Department of Water Resources in August 1986.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 7
29. Surrounding land uses are primarily agricultural and residential.
30. Area soils consist primarily of Exc hequer and Auburn loams, with slopes from
3 to 31 percent. The Exchequer loam is exce ssively drained, and the Auburn loam is well
drained. Surface soil is very thin or comple tely eroded. Runoff is medium to rapid and
erosion hazard is moderate to severe.
Groundwater Conditions
31. The depth to groundwater ranges from less than 1 foot to 21 feet below the ground surface.
The shallower groundwater is found at higher elevations. Generally, groundwater flows
from southeast to northwest (downslope) wit h a hydraulic gradient of approximately 0.03
feet/foot.
32. In 2003, the Discharger installed six groundwater monitoring wells, as shown on
Attachment B. Monitoring wells MW-3 (upgr adient of the wastewater treatment ponds) and
MW-4 (upgradient of the effluent storage rese rvoir) are considered upgradient monitoring
wells for the network within the two sub-basin areas within fractured slate. Well MW-1 is
within the LAA site, MW-2 is downgradient of the treatment ponds, MW-5 is downgradient
of the storage reservoir, and MW-6 is downgr adient of LAA Field 5. The depths of
monitoring wells range from 15 to 26 feet below ground surface.
33. Groundwater quality has been characterized by quar terly sampling of monitoring wells.
A summary of average concentrations from July 2005 to May 2011 is presented in the
table below.

Constituent Upgradient
Wells Downgradient
 Wells
MW-3 MW-4 MW-1 MW-2 MW-5 MW-6
TDS (mg/L)1 476 5,393 1,137 568 688 649
pH (Std.) 1 6.8 6.4 6.5 6.7 6.9 6.7
Nitrate (mg/L) 1 <0.05 0.06 <0.05 0.21 <0.05 0.05
Specific Conductivity (µmhos/cm) 1 668 5,087 1,664 926 957 978
Total Coliform Organisms (MPN/100 mL) 1 21 3 9 99 35 2
Chloride (mg/L) 2 13 91 171 39 58 109
Sodium (mg/L) 2 20 383 44 36 35 32
Zinc (µg/L) 2 12 70 92 16 35 8
Formaldehyde (µg/L) 2 12 40 42 25 52 22
Phenols (µg/L) 2 2 3 2 2 1 1
1. Samples were collected quarterly.
2. Samples were collected annually.
34. A discussion of groundwater constituents is presented below based on the above data:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 8
a. Groundwater TDS concentrations have fluc tuated over time based on the quarterly
sampling events, but overall trends are st able. The TDS concentrations for the
upgradient well MW-4 ranged from 4,220 to 5,800 mg/L from July 2005 through
May 2011 while the range in the remaining monitoring wells was 282 to 1,480 mg/L. High TDS levels appear to be typical of this monitoring well. MW-4 is at the uphill edge of the effluent storage pond, which was formed by damming an ephemeral
drainage course. Based on the local geology (fractured bedrock in the Sierra Foothills), it is unlikely that local shallow groundwater is that saline, especially at an
upslope location where there is little soil mantle . It is possible that MW-4 is monitoring
a localized perched zone that is subject to evapoconcentration because the groundwater is so shallow at the upslope end of the local recharge area.
b. The upgradient well MW-3 had an average of 476 mg/L for TDS, which is the lowest
for all wells. However, this well is located next to the Little Indian Creek and the groundwater samples may be affected by the surface water. Wells MW-3 and MW-4 do not appear suitable to provide samples that are representative of background
water quality. Therefore, a new background well is necessary to determine the background water quality.
c. All pH levels observed were within norma l range for the area. The concentrations of
nitrate as nitrogen in all wells were below 10 mg/L, which is the Basin Plan’s water quality objective for nitrate as nitrogen.
d. Groundwater monitoring reports show that some samples had total coliform organism
concentrations greater than 2.2 MPN/100 mL, which is the Basin Plan’s numeric water
quality objective for total coliform organi sms. Downgradient well MW-2 had an
average concentration of 99 MPN/ 100mL for to tal coliform organisms from July 2005
to May 2011. Downgradient wells MW-1 and MW-5 and the upgradient wells MW-3 and MW-4 also show exceedances. The groundwater coliform detections are likely due to cross-contamination of the moni toring wells during construction and/or
subsequent sampling. Therefore this Order requires the Discharger to submit a
Groundwater Monitoring Well Disinfection Workplan and a Sampling and Analysis
Plan for better sampling techniques.
e. The WWTF receives wastewater fr om the RV Resort, and Amador County
Fairgrounds which contains formaldehyde, zinc, and/or phenol due to the use of
deodorants in holding tanks and portable toilets. The Discharger has been monitoring formaldehyde, zinc, ammonia and total phenol annually in groundwater since 2005. Most total phenol concentrations were non-detectable. The zinc average concentrations ranged from 8 to 92 µg/L, wh ich are less than the California Drinking
Water Standard Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level (“MCL”) of 5,000 µg/L for zinc. The groundwater formaldehyde average concentrations ranged from 12 to 60 µg/L, which are less than the USEPA Heal th Advisory Level of 1,000 ug/L.
Although the RV waste chemical impacts appear to be minimal, source control could
be achieved through educational outreach to the RV park/fairground customers.
This Order requires the Discharger to subm it a best practicable treatment and control
(“BPTC”) evaluation and implementation plan for source control.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 9
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
35. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacr amento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fourth Edition (hereafter “Basin Plan”) designat es beneficial uses, establishes water quality
objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin,
and incorporates by reference plans and policie s adopted by the State Board. Pursuant to
Water Code section 13263(a), waste discharge requirements must implement the Basin
Plan.
36. Surface water drainage is to Little Indian Creek, a tributary of the Cosumnes River.
The beneficial uses of Cosumnes River are municipal and domestic supply; agricultural
irrigation and stock watering; contact, rafti ng, and other noncontact recreation; warm and
cold freshwater habitat; migration for warm and cold water species; spawning for warm and
cold water species; and wildlife habitat.
37. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as municipal and
domestic supply, agricultural supply, industr ial service supply, and industrial process
supply.
38. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents,
tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater. It also sets forth a numeric objectives for
total coliform organisms
39. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objecti ve for chemical constituents, at a minimum,
requires waters designated as domestic or munici pal supply to meet the MCLs specified in
Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations. The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central
Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not
contain chemical constituents in concentrati ons that adversely affect beneficial uses.
40. In summary, the narrative toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of
toxic substances in concentrations that pr oduce detrimental physiological responses in
human, plant, animal, or aquatic life a ssociated with designated beneficial uses.
Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site-specific evaluation of those
constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses.
41. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objec tive for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (“MPN”) of coliform organisms ov er any seven-day period shall be less
than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater. The applicability of this objective to
groundwater designated as MUN has been affirmed by State Water Board Order WQO-
2003-0014 and by subsequent decisions of the Sacramento County Superior Court and
California Court of Appeal, 3rd Appellate District.
Antidegradation Analysis
42. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68-16 ("Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the Stat e") (hereafter “Resolution 68-16”) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 10
a. The degradation is limited and will provide so cial and economical benefit to the people
of the State;
b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial
uses;
c. The degradation is not expected to result in water quality less than that prescribed in
state and regional policies, including violati on of one or more water quality objectives;
and
d. The discharger employs BPTC to minimize degradation. Resolution 68-16 prohibits degradation of groundwat er quality as it existed in 1968, or at
any time thereafter that groundwater qua lity was better than in 1968, other than
degradation that was previously authorized. An antidegradation analysis is required for a
new discharge location, and/or an increased volume of waste and/or an increased
concentration of waste constituents.
43. Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents released with
discharge from a municipal wa stewater utility after best practicable source control,
treatment, and control is consistent with prov iding social and economical benefit to the
people of the State. The technology, ener gy, water recycling, and waste management
advantages of municipal utility service exc eed any benefits derived from a community
otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated indi vidual wastewater systems, and the impact
on water quality will be substantially less. Ec onomic prosperity of the valley and foothill
communities and associated industry is of maxi mum benefit to the people of the State, and
therefore sufficient reason to accommodate growth and groundwater degradation provided
terms of the Basin Plan are met.
44. The Discharger has been monitoring groundwater quality at the current WWTF site since
2003. Based on the data available, it is not possible to determine pre-1968 groundwater
quality. Therefore, determinat ion of compliance with Resolution 68-16 for this facility must
be based on existing background groundwater quality.
45. In August 2010, the Discharger submitted an Antidegradation Analysis with a simplified
groundwater model, which used MW-4 as a ba ckground well. However, since MW-4 does
not appear to provide samples that are repres entative of background water quality, this
Order requires the Discharger to (1) insta ll a new background groundwater monitoring well;
(2) submit a Background Groundwater Quality Report; and (3) complete the
Antidegradation Analysis .
46. Constituents of concern that have the potential to degrade groundwat er include salts,
nutrients, and coliform organisms, as discussed below:
a. Since the change to a new low-salinity wate r supply in March 2010, the effluent average
TDS concentration has been reduced from 564 mg/L (August 2005 through December 2009) to 355 mg/L (March 2010 through May 2011). Although the discharge may cause
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 11
degradation of groundwater quality, it will likely not cause exceedance of a Water Quality
Objective and the Discharger has impl emented BPTC to reduce salinity.
b. For nutrients such as nitrate, t he potential for unreasonable degradation depends not
only on the quality of the treated effluent, but the ability of the vadose zone below the
effluent storage/disposal ponds to provide an environment conducive to nitrification and
denitrification to convert the effluent nitrogen to nitrate and the nitrate to nitrogen gas
before it reaches the water table. Effl uent and groundwater monitoring data for the
wastewater treatment plant site do not indicate unreasonable degradation due to nitrate
and the native plants grown at the LAAs shoul d remove most of the nitrogen in the
applied wastewater. However, groundwater is shallow at the wastewater treatment plant,
so there is some threat that the discharge c ould cause a violation of the MCL for nitrate,
which is 10 mg/L as nitrogen. It is t herefore appropriate to adopt a numerical
groundwater limitation of 10 mg/L for nitrat e as nitrogen to protect the municipal and
domestic use of groundwater.
c. For coliform organisms, the potential for exceedance of the Basin Plan’s numeric water
quality objective depends on the ability of vados e zone soils below the treatment plant
and effluent storage ponds and saturated soils within the shallow water-bearing zone to provide adequate filtration. Groundwater monito ring data indicate that the soils beneath
the treatment and storage ponds may not provide sufficient filtration. However, the wells
may have become cross-contaminated and s hould be disinfected to assess whether
coliform detections actually represent degr adation from the discharge. Sampling will
continue to provide site-specific data to determi ne the threat. This Order requires that the
Discharger continue to disinfect treated effluen t. Disinfection would reduce the potential
threat, but the use of sodium hypochlorite will also increase the salinity of the effluent and
create trihalomethanes, neither of which is des irable. Additionally, disinfection does not
prevent coliform impacts at the treatment pl ant site because treatment takes place in
unlined ponds prior to disinfection. Dependi ng on the outcome of the groundwater data
analysis, it may be necessary to provide le ss permeable liners for the treatment ponds
and/or change the method of disinfection. It is therefore appropriate to adopt a numerical
groundwater limitation of 2. 2 MPN/100mL for total coliform organisms to protect the
municipal and domestic use of groundwater.
d. RV waste chemicals can be detrimental to bac teria in biological treatment process, inhibit
the WWTF operation and also pose a threat to the quality of groundwater. To protect the
municipal and domestic use of groundwater, it is appropriate to adopt following numerical
limits for groundwater: 1,000 μg/L for formaldehyde, 2,000 μg/L for total phenol and 5,000
μg/L for total zinc. With an effluent limit of 600 μg/L for formaldehyde, the Discharger
should be able to comply with the groundwater lim its without additional treatment.
47. The expansion of the WWTF will acco mmodate an approximate one percent annual
wastewater flow increase over the next twel ve years. Sufficient reasons exist to
accommodate this growth as long as the Di scharger verifies its antidegradation analysis
and selects and implements BPTC measures withi n a reasonable timeframe. It is also
appropriate to allow some groundwater degradati on as long as it is consistent with the
Basin Plan and Resolution 68-16 because soci al and economic prosperity of local
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 12
communities and associated industry is of benefit to the people of California. This Order
establishes terms and conditions of discharge to ensure that the discharge does not impact
present and anticipated uses of groundwater and includes groundwater limitations that
apply water quality objectives established in the Ba sin Plan to protect beneficial uses of the
underlying groundwater. This Order also r equires a groundwater quality evaluation, and
requires groundwater monitoring to quantif y any water quality impacts. Following
completion of the work required by the time schedule contained in the Provisions, this
Order will be reopened, if necessary, to rec onsider effluent limitations and other
requirements to comply with Resolution 68-16. Based on the existing record, the discharge
is consistent with the antidegradati on provisions of Resolution 68-16.
48. The Discharger currently provi des treatment and control of the discharge that incorporates:
a. Secondary treatment; b. Disinfection; c. Land application at agronomic rates; d. Alarms to prevent system bypass or overflow; e. An Operation and Main tenance Plan (O&M Plan); and
f. Certified operators to assure proper operation and maintenance.
Other Regulatory Considerations
49. State regulations that pre scribe procedures for detecting and characterizing the impact of
waste constituents from wast e management units on groundwater are found in California
Code of Regulations, title 27 (“Title 27”), se ction 20380 et seq. Title 27 conditionally
exempts certain activities from its provisions. To qualify for an exemption, the activity must
meet, and continue to meet, specified precondi tions. Section 20090 of Title 27 contains
conditional exemptions that are relevant to the discharge:
(a) Sewage – Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated by WDRs, or
for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal wastewater treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid wa ste from wastewater treatment facilities shall
be discharged only in accordance with the applicable SWRCB-promulgated provisions of this division.
(b) Wastewater – Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to evaporation
ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leach fields if the following conditions are met:
(1) the applicable regional water quality control board has issued WDRs, or waived
such issuance;
(2) the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan; and
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 13
(3) the wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11, Division
4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste.
50. The discharge authorized herein and the treat ment and storage facilities associated with
the discharge, except for discharges of resi dual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from
the requirements of Title 27 as follows:
a. Treatment Ponds 1, 2 and 3 are exempt fr om Title 27 pursuant to Title 27, section
20090(a) because they are treatment ponds associated with a municipal domestic
wastewater treatment plant.
b. The secondary effluent storage reservoir and LAAs are exempt from Title 27 pursuant
to Title 27, sections 20090(a) and (b) becaus e they are associated with municipal
wastewater treatment plants and because (1) Central Valley Water Board is issuing
WDRs; (2) the discharge is in compliance wit h the Basin Plan. This Order requires
the Discharger to install a new ba ckground monitoring well and submit a Background
Groundwater Quality Report and an Antidegradation Analysis to determine if
degradation is occurring and if that degradati on is consistent with the Antidegradation
Policy. The reports will be used to dete rmine whether additional treatment and/or
improved containment are needed to ensure co mpliance with the Basin Plan. Because
compliance with the Basin Plan can not be determined immediately, this Order
includes a compliance schedule for completion of those tasks. The treated effluent discharged to the effluent storage reservoir and LAAs does not need to be managed as hazardous waste.
51. While the WWTF is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods of Title 27 are
appropriate for determining whether the dischar ge complies with the terms for protection of
groundwater specified in this Order.
52. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems General Order 2006-0003-DWQ
(the “General Order”). The General Order r equires all public agencies that own or operate
sanitary sewer systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the Order.
The Discharger’s collection system exceeds one m ile in length, theref ore the General Order
is applicable.
53. The United States Environm ental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CFR section 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage
Sludge, which establishes m anagement criteria for protec tion of ground and surface
waters, sets application rates for heavy metals, and establishes stabilization and disinfection criteria.
The Central Valley Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR section 503 as
guidelines in establishing this Order, but the Central Valley Water Board is not the
implementing agency for 40 CFR section 503 regulations. The Discharger may have separate and/or additional compliance, reporti ng, and permitting responsibilities to the
U.S. EPA.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 14
54. The State Board adopted Water Quality Order 97-03 DWQ (NPDES General Permit No.
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge require ments for discharges of storm water
associated with industrial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all
affected industrial dischargers. The wastewater treatment plant has a design capacity of
less than 1.0 mgd, and therefor e the Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under
NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001.
55. Section 13267(b) of the Water Code provides that:
In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require that
any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge within its region, or any citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of the waters of the state within its region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the board requires. The burden, including costs of these reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to provide the reports.
The technical reports required by this Or der and the attached Monitoring and Reporting
Program R5-2011-0092 (“MRP”) are necessary to assure compliance with these waste
discharge requirements. The Discharger owns and operates the facility that discharges
the waste subject to this Order.
56. The California Department of Water Resour ces sets standards for the construction and
destruction of groundwater wells (hereafte r “DWR Well Standards”), as described in
California Well Standards Bulletin 74-90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards: State of
California Bulletin 94-81 (December 1981). These standards, and any more stringent
standards adopted by the state or county pursuant to Water Code section 13801, apply to
all monitoring wells.
57. The City Council of the City of Plymouth adopted a Notice of Exemption for the Phase 1
project on 9 April 2009 pursuant to the California Environment Quality Act. The exemption
is a categorical exemption pursuant to Section 15301, Class 1(b) (existing sewerage
facilities).
58. The action to adopt waste discharge requirement s for this existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the CEQA, in accordance wit h California Code of Regulations, title 14,
section 15301.
59. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a ve sted right to continue the discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 15
Public Notice
60. All the above and the supplemental informati on and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference her ein, were considered in establishing the
following conditions of discharge.
61. The Discharger and interested agencies and per sons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportuni ty to submit their written views and
recommendations.
62. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public meeting.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order R5-01-095 is rescinded except for the purpose of
enforcement, and pursuant to Water Code sect ions 13263 and 13267, the City of Plymouth, its
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions , and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Prov isions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in the
Findings is prohibited.
4. Discharge of waste classified as “hazardous ” under California Code of Regulations, title
23, section 2521, or “designated,” as defined in Water Code section 13173 is prohibited.
5. Surfacing of treated wastew ater outside of the treatment ponds, storage reservoir or
LAAs is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications
1. The wastewater flow rate shall not exceed any of the following limits:
Influent Flow Measurement Influent Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 82.5 MG
Average Daily Dry Weather Flow 2, 3 0.185 mgd
1. Based on the calendar year (January through December).
2. Dry weather is defined as the months of July through September, inclusive.
3. As determined by the total influent flow for the dry weather period divided by 92.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 16
2. Neither the treatment nor the discharge of wastewater shall cause a nuisance or
condition of pollution as defined by the Water Code section 13050.
3. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as
fences, signs, or acceptable alternatives.
4. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released
or discharged, in a concentration or in a ma ss that causes violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.
5. Objectionable odors originating at the fac ility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the property at an intensit y that creates or threatens to create nuisance conditions.
6. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification B.5, the dissolved
oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall not be less than
1.0 mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive sampli ng events, the Discharger shall report the
findings to the Central Valley Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.
7. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
8. All wastewater treatm ent and storage ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. Example managem ent strategies include,
a. An erosion control program shall be im plemented to ensure that small coves and
irregularities are not cr eated around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
9. All treatment, storage, and disposal facilit ies shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or was hout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
10. The facility shall have sufficient treat ment, storage, and disposal capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow, des ign seasonal precipitation, and ancillary
inflow and infiltration during the winter months . Design seasonal precipitation shall be
based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed
monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
11. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the integrity of
containment levees and prevent overtoppi ng and/or structural failure. Unless a
California-registered civil engineer certif ies (based on design, construction, and
conditions of operation and maintenance) that less freeboard is adequate, the operating
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 17
freeboard in any pond shall never be less than two feet as measured vertically from the
water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
12. On or about 15 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply wit h Discharge Specifications B.10 and B.11.
C. Land Application Area Specifications
1. Irrigation runoff (tailwater) and storm wate r runoff shall be completely contained within
the designated LAAs or be returned to the WW TF, and shall not enter any surface water
drainage course.
2. Fields 2, 3 and 6, which have tailwater/storm water containment berms, may be used for
year-round land application in compliance with LAA Specification C.5.
3. For Fields 1, 4 and 5, the application of wastewater is limited to the period of 1 April to 1
November . If the Discharger builds berms or ditches to control tailwater and storm
water runoff, land application on Fields 1, 4 and 5 may occur throughout the wet season upon approval of the report described in Provis ion G.2. by the Executive Officer.
4. Application of effluent shall comply with the following setback requirements:
Setback Definition
1 Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of LAAs to property boundary 50
Edge of LAAs to public road 50
Edge of LAAs to irrigation well 100
Edge of LAAs to domestic well 100
Edge of LAAs to manmade or natural surface
water drainage course 2 or spring 50
1. As defined by the wetted ar ea produced during irrigation.
2. Excluding ditches used exclusively for tailwater return and drainages that do not discharge to
surface waters.
5. The volume of treated wastewater appli ed to the LAAs on any single day shall not
exceed reasonable agronomic rates based on the vegetation grown, pre-discharge soil
moisture conditions, and weather conditions.
6. The discharge of treated wastewater to t he LAAs shall be at reasonable agronomic rates
designed to maximize uptake and breakdown of wa ste constituents in the root zone and
minimize the percolation of waste constituents below the root zone.
7. Irrigation of effluent shall not be perform ed within 24 hours of a forecasted precipitation
event, during precipitation, within 24 hours a fter any measurable precipitation event, or
when the ground is saturated.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 18
8. Spray irrigation of effluent is prohi bited when wind velocities exceed 30 mph.
9. The LAAs shall be managed to prevent br eeding of mosquitoes. In particular:
a. There shall be no standing water 72 hours after irrigation ceases; b. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes
shall not be used to store effluent.
D. Solids/Sludge Disposal Specifications
1. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during prelim inary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that
will not be subject to further treatment at the fa cility. Biosolids refers to sludge that has
undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to federal and
state regulations as a soil amendment for agric ulture, silviculture, horticulture, and land
recycling.
2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, and ponds as needed to
ensure optimal plant operation.
3. Treatment and storage of sludge generated by the WWTF shall be confined to its
property, and shall be conducted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soils in a mass or at c oncentrations that will violate the Groundwater
Limitations of this Order.
4. Any storage of residual sludge, solid wast e, and biosolids at the facility shall be
temporary, and the waste shall be controll ed and contained in a manner that minimizes
leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
at concentrations that will violate the Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
5. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid wast e shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent with Div ision 2 of Title 27. Removal for further
treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites operated in accordance with valid waste
discharge requirements issued by a California Wa ter Board will satisfy this specification.
This does not preclude land application of bios olids at the WWTF site in accordance with
another Order (i.e., general or indivi dual Waste Discharge Requirements).
6. Use and disposal of biosolids shall co mply with the self-implementing Federal
regulations of 40 CFR section 503, which are subject to enforcement by the U.S. EPA,
not the Central Valley Water Board. If duri ng the life of this Order, the state accepts
primacy for implementation of 40 CFR secti on 503, the Central Valley Water Board may
also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
E. Effluent Limitations
1. Effluent discharged to the LAAs sha ll not exceed the following limits:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 19
Constituent Units Monthly
Average Monthly
Maximum Quarterly
Maximum 2
BOD 5 1 mg/L 40 80 --
Total Nitrogen mg/L -- -- 10
Formaldehyde μg/L -- -- 600
1. 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20  C.
2. Compliance with Quarterly Maximum limits shall be det ermined based on the analytical results
for the calendar quarter.
2. Prior to discharge to the LAAs, effluent shall not exceed the following limits for total
coliform organisms:
a. The median concentration of total colif orm bacteria measured in the disinfected
effluent shall not exceed a most probabl e number (MPN) of 23 per 100 milliliters
based on all samples in a calendar month.
b. The number of total coliform bacteria shall not exceed an MPN of 240 per
100 milliliters in more than one sample in any 30-day period.
Compliance with this requirement shall be determined based on samples obtained at the
sampling locations shown on Attachment C.
3. No wastewater contained in any pond shall have a pH of less than 6.5 or greater than
10.0.
F. Groundwater Limitations
1. Effective immediately except as provided below , the discharge, in combination with
other sources, shall not cause underlying gr oundwater to contain waste constituents in
concentrations statistically greater than the interim limits in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

