Water Reclamation Plant (COWRP )1. In addition, the WWTF accepts Amador
Regio nal Sanitation Agency ’s (ARSA) secondary effluent from Preston Reservoir 2 for
disposal in the WWTF’s percolation/evaporation ponds.

6. The WWTF consists of seven ponds covering approximately 28 acres , as shown on
Attachment B. Ponds 1 through 4 provide secondary treatment via aeration and
settling , and Ponds 5 through 7 provide disposal of un-disinfected effluent vi a
percolation and evaporation. The ponds are constructed in alluvial deposits
overlaying a clay formation. There are no engineer ed liners in Ponds 1 through 4.
The WWTF is adjacent to Sutter Creek, with the closest pond approximately 100 feet
from the creek.

7. The RWD provided the following design data for the existing ponds :
Pond Depth (feet)
1 Surface Area
(acres) Volume
(MG)1 Pond Bottom
Elevation (feet,
msl) 2
1 6.1 1.62 3.1 269.9
2 5.9 1.39 2.5 270.1
3 5.7 1.14 2.0 270.3
4 5.5 2.15 3.7 270.5
5 12 4.9 17 264.7

1 COWRP is also owned and operated by the City of Ione. The COWRP and associated golf course water
recycling are regulated under WDRs Order 93- 240.
2 Preston Reservoir is an effluent storage reservoir owned and operated by the Amador Region al
Sanitation Agency (ARSA). Whenever possible, this effluent receives tertiary treatment at the COWRP,
and the effluent is recycled to irrigate the Castle Oaks Golf Course. Secondary effluent from the Preston
Reservoir is only discharge d to the Ione WWTF percolation/ evaporation ponds to the extent that the golf
course cannot accept more recycled water.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0022 3
CITY OF IONE AND GREENROCK RANCH LANDS LLC
IONE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
AMADOR COUNTY



 Pond Depth (feet)
1 Surface Area
(acres) Volume
(MG)1 Pond Bottom
Elevation (feet,
msl) 2
6 8.0 3.7 9 268.7
7 7.0 4.5 10 265.7
1. Based on two feet of freeboard.
2. Based on a recent survey. The RWD states that the pond bottom elevations are somewhat
higher than those that were previously reported based on elevations illustrated in a March 2007 drawing.

8. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge

18. The City has approved several development projects , which will increase the total
EDU from current 1,525 to 1,900 EDUs by the year 2020. In order to comply with the
2011 CDO and to increase WWTF capacity for future development , the City proposed
two phases of W WTF modifications :

 Phase I (to be completed by 30 October 2013) will consist of :
a. Constructing new water recycling land application areas (LAAs) on land owned by
the Dischargers , including the 11-acre WWTF Field and the 67-acre Town Field
(shown on Attachment B);
b. Installing a specific number of additional aerators with specific horsepower in
treatment Ponds 1 through 4 to cons istently maintain hi gh dissolved oxygen
throughout the treatm ent process ;
c. Installing a mixing unit in Pond 5 to reduce the anoxic conditions in the pond
(which has already been installed );
d. Installing a new disinfection system utilizing sodium hypochlorite injection and a
contact chamber; and
e. Sludge removal from Ponds 5 and 6.

 Phase II (to be completed in 2015) will consist of :
a. Constructing Pond 8 on the location of the 11-acre WWT F Field. Pond 8 will be
clay lined with a capacity of 17 million gallons. It will be used to stor e
un-disinfected effluent during the non- irrigation season; and
b. Adding additional water recycling LAAs totaling 5 6 acres: the 40-acre Greenrock
LAA and the 16-acre COWRP Field .

The Phase II site plan is shown on Attachment C.

19. After completion of Phase I construction, the wastewater treatment and disposal
facilities will consist of Ponds 1 through 7, a disinfection system, and the WWTF Field
and Town Field LAAs with a total area of 78 acres. In Phase II, storage Pond 8 will
be installed and the LAAs will consist of Town Fi eld, COWRP Field, and Greenrock
LAA with a total area of 123 acres. The LAAs are listed in the following table:

Improvements
Phase LAA Name Total Area
(acres) Net Area*
(acres)
Phase I WWTF Field 11 9
Town Field 67 56
Phase II Town Field 67 56
COWRP Field 16 15.5
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0022 7
CITY OF IONE AND GREENROCK RANCH LANDS LLC
IONE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
AMADOR COUNTY



 Improvements
Phase LAA Name Total Area
(acres) Net Area*
(acres)
Greenrock LAA 40 30.5
 * Usable area considering setbacks required by Title 22.

20. The effluent applied to the LAAs will be disinfected secondary -23 recycled water (as
the term is defined in Cal ifornia Code of Regulations, Title 22, section 60301.225) .
The land application will occur mainly during the summer months . Recycled water
may also be used during the winter months in dry year s to meet crop demand s.
The use of the proposed LAAs will reduce the use of the percolation ponds during the
summer months , which minimizes potential for seepage of degraded groundwater and
reduces the potential for groundwater surfacing in areas adjacent to the WWTF
because of the reduced hydraulic load on the groundwater. In addition, the land
application will empty the percolation ponds during some summer months , allow ing
for sludge removal, drying , and aeration of the soils beneath all the percolation ponds.

21. During the non-irrigation season, the treated un -disinfected wastewater will be
discharged into percolation Ponds 5 through 7 and the clay lined storage Pond 8.
During the irrigation season, secondary effluent will be disinfected in a n 84,000- gallon
chlorine contact basin before land application. The hydraulic residence time in the
chlorine contact basin will be 60 minutes at a pumping rate of 1 ,400 gallons per
minute. Sludge removed from the ponds will be hauled off site for disposal at an
appropriately permitted facility . The wastewater treatment process schematic is
shown on Attachment D, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by
reference.

22. The Discharger s propose to grow and harvest fodder crops such as alfalfa hay on the
LAAs . The LAAs will have wheel -line irrigation systems controlled by a Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system . The LAAs will be graded to drain
tailwater to collection ditches. In general, irrigation tailwater will be collected and
pumped back to the irrigation system for disposal. However, i n the case of the
WWTF field, irrigation tailwater will be returned to the WWTF headworks. The LAAs
will not be irrigated during rainfall or when the soil is saturated to prevent
commingling of storm water with tailwater. Storm water runoff from the LAAs will be
allowed to drain to existing drainage features which eventually discharge to Sutter Creek. The LAAs may be used for cattle grazing.

23. The City also proposes to use disinfected secondary -23 recycled water during
construction of the improvements at the WWTF, including backfill consolidation around nonpotable water piping, soil compaction, mixing concrete, and dust control. This Order allows that use.

24. As part of LAA design activities, the City has performed a preliminary geotechnical
investigation and analyzed nine test pits at the WWTF and COWRP Field s to assess
their suitability. In general, soil conditions were observed to be relatively consistent
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0022 8
CITY OF IONE AND GREENROCK RANCH LANDS LLC
IONE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
AMADOR COUNTY



 and predominately characterized as clay and silty clay. There was evidence of likely
restrictive layers and seasonal saturation (clay with mottles) in two of the pits on the
WWTP field at depths of 3 to 4 feet. Evidence of restrictive layers or seasonal
saturation was not found in the other test pits.

25. The RWD state s that, according to the US Bureau of Reclamation’s AgriMet website,
the average root depth for alfalfa is 4 feet, which i s above seasonal high groundwater
and well above groundwater levels in summer and fall.

26. The p roposed storage Pond 8 in Phase II will be a 17 million gallon pond with a berm
height of approxi mate 10 feet above the surrounding grade. Beca use of the shallow
groundwater, the po nd bott om will be approxi mately two feet bel ow grade to provide
some separation. The pond will be construct ed with a 24- inch thick clay liner along
the base and sidewalls placed and compacted to achieve a maximum permeability of
1x 10-6 cm/sec. The RWD states that l ocal Ione clays can achieve this permeability
with appropriate placement and compaction.

27. The RWD projected that the effluent will have both BOD and total suspended solid
concentrations of 30 mg/L. The RWD did not project the TDS and chlori de
concentrations for the disinfected wastewater. It is expected that the salinity levels
of the disinfected effluent will be slight ly higher than the current un-disinfected
effluent levels .

28. The water balances in the RWD demonstrate the facility will have the following
storage and disposal capacities for Phases I and II :

Flow Component Phase I Phase II
Influent ADWF 1 (MGD ) 0.50 0.52
Total effluent flow to the percolation ponds as a maximum flow for any
calendar month (MGD) 0.75 0.78
Total annual effluent flow to the
percolation ponds (MG) 237 246
 1 Influent flows at headworks in the months of July through September, inclusive.

The influent flows used in the capacity analysis include : domestic wastewater
generated from the City, tertiary filter backwash flows from the COWRP , and filter
backwash flows from the AWA water treatment plant . The t otal effluent flows to the
percolation ponds include the influent flows at the headworks and the ARSA
secondary effluent flows to the percolation ponds . The water balances are based on
the assumption of year -round cropping of all available LAAs. Therefore, this Order
requires year round cropping of all LAAs and allows year -round irrigation with recycled
effluent to meet crop water needs .
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0022 9
CITY OF IONE AND GREENROCK RANCH LANDS LLC
IONE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
AMADOR COUNTY




29. The 2011 CDO flow limits are 0.55 MGD as an average dry weather influent flow and
0.75 MGD as a monthly average effluent flow for any calendar month. The City
states that the current treatment capacity is 0.55 MGD. H owever , the storage and
disposal capacity is less than 0.55 MGD. Therefore, this Order sets initial flow limits
equal to the WWTF’s capacity after the Phase I upgrades are completed . This Order
grants the Executive Officer the authority to increase the flow limit s to the Phase II
capacity after the City demonstrates that it has satisfactor ily completed the proposed
Phase II modifications .

Site-Specific Conditions

30. Potable water supply for the City is provided by AWA. The raw water comes from
Tanner Reservoir and is treated in the City of Ione Water Treatment Plant by AWA .
Based on the AWA’s March 2011 sampling result , the chemical character of the
potable water is summarized below.
Water Supply Analytical Results