The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Live Oak and serves a
population of approximately 8,500 . The design average dry weather flow capacity of
the Facility is 1.4 million gallons per day (MGD).
The tertiary treatment system at the Facili ty consists of headworks with odor control,
City of Live Oak 30 June 2021
Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2017 -0085 -018
- 3 -secondary feed pump station, selector basin, two oxidation ditches, two secondary
clarifiers, two cloth media filters, and a single ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection
channel with five banks of lights. The Facil ity provides nitrification and includes a
lined equalization basin, three unlined emergency storage basins a storm water
detention basin, and a partially concrete lined storage pond for Vactor truck
offloading that is no longer utilized . The unlined emergency storage basin s have a
gravity drain system that connects to the treatment plant . The north and south
basins can drain to the center basin via interconnected piping and valves. A portable
pump can also be used if necessary.
The Discharger has deco mmissioned the use of the Vactor truck offloading basin
located at the north end of the Facility. The Discharger now uses a n abandoned
concrete chlorine contact basin to replace the Vactor truck offloading basin. The old
chlorine contact basin was abandone d in 2011 when the Facility upgraded to UV
disinfection. The old chlorine contact chamber is not hydraulically connected to the
treatment system. Super natant is pumped out of the basin and returned to the
headworks on an as needed basis.
The Discharger also installed a rota ry drum thickener to supplement the existing
solids drying beds. Sludge is pumped from the existing solids holding pond to the
rotary drum thickener . Supernatant is pumped to the solids drying beds.
Dewatered biosolids are stored onsite at the location identified in Attachment B and
are hauled to Recology Ostrom Road Landfill for disposal. Transportation and
disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 Code of Federal
Regulations ( C.F.R .) part 503.
II.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger shall give notice to the Central Valley Water Board as soon as possible of any
planne d physical alterations or additions to the permitted facility . Notice is required under this
provision only when (40 C.F.R. § 122.41(l)(1)):
1. The alteration or addition to a permitted facility may meet one of the criteria for
determining whether a facility is a new source in section 122.29(b) (40 C.F.R.
§ 122.41(l)(1)(i)); or
2. The alteration or addition could significantly change the nature or increase the quantity of
pollutants discharged (if the discharge is not an existing manufacturing, commercial,
mining, or silvicultural discharge) . This notification applies to pollutants that are not
subject to