Wastewater Treatment and Disposal System
4. The Maharishi Vedic School WWTF is on Assessors Parcel Number 013-050-18 and is owned
and operated by the Discharger. The facility is at 15205 State Highway 175 in Cobb, in Section 34, T12N, R8W, MDB&M, as shown on Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
5. The WWTF serves up to 200 people during the summer season and approximately 10 to 20
people during the off-season. The wastewater collection system consists of gravity sewer laterals serving approximately 70 structures ranging from small cabins to large congregation halls.
6. The wastewater treatment system consists of a gravity sewer collection system, primary settling
tank, aeration tank, activated biofilter, clarifier, secondary settling tank, sludge return, discharge pump, chlorine injection pump, chlorine contact tank and two evaporation/percolation ponds, as shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
7. Wastewater enters the treatment plant through a grit screen and flows into a 7,360-gallon
primary settling basin. Any secondary settlement sludge is recycled back into the primary settling basin. Following primary settling, wastewater flows through a weir into a 7,900-gallon aeration basin where it is pumped to the activated bio-filter tower. Effluent from the aeration tank flows into an 11,840-gallon secondary clarifier and then through a 2-inch flow meter prior to chlorine injection. Chlorine injection is accomplished using a solenoid metering pump.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -2-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
Wastewater then flows into a 1,000-gallon contact chamber prior to being discharged into one of
two evaporation/percolation ponds.
8. The two evaporation/percolation ponds are unlined and each measures approximately 50 feet by
50 feet with a total storage capacity of approximately 149,610 gallons (allowing for two feet of freeboard).
9. The RWD indicates that the sludge generated by the treatment system is recirculated through the
system and is biologically consumed. Grits and screenings are manually removed and disposed at a local landfill.
10. The Discharger has completed a water balance for the facility that demonstrates that there is
adequate storage and disposal capacity available for the design monthly average influent flow rate of 277,200 gallons per month (including infiltration and inflow). The water balance was prepared based on the design average daily flow, a pond capacity of 149,610 gallons, local evaporation rates, and a 100-year total precipitation rate.
11. Flow rates at the facility vary greatly depending on the population using the facility. Prior to the
installation of a flow meter, flows were estimated using lift station pump hour meter readings. Estimated flows have ranged from less than 1,440 gallons per day (gpd) to 9,360 gpd.
12. The Discharger has compiled the following effluent data from the WWTF. The results are given
below. It is noted that the Discharger has never analyzed the effluent for nitrogen, total dissolved solids, electrical conductivity, coliform, or standard minerals.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

