6. The Mendota WWTF treats domestic wastewater from the City of Mendota and a
nearby Federal Correctional Institution. The City has a population of approximately
11,000 residents and the prison has approximately 1,100 inmates and 300 staff. The
WWTF was originally constructed in 1972 and has been incrementally modified over
the years. The WWTF is located adjacent to the Fresno Slough near the convergence
with the San Joaquin River.
7. S ince 2011, the City has been working to reduce obvious contributions to inflow and
infiltration (I&I ). These efforts have included closing open utility vault covers ,
particularly in low -lying areas subject to storm flooding, and repair of old utility vault
covers potentially subject to upward groundwater intrusion.
8. The WWTF previously consisted of three unlined treatment ponds (Ponds 1
through 3 ) run in series and four percolation/evaporation disposal ponds (Ponds 4
through 7). The disposal ponds have an estimated percolation rate of approximately
0.01 feet per day. The three treatment ponds were used until 2011, when the WWTF
improvements project was completed as described below. From 2011 through 2015,
the Discharger used the abandoned treatment ponds for emergency disposal. The
Discharger was not able to remove the sludge from Ponds 2 and 3 until 2015, at
which point they were designated as disposal ponds. This Order establishes a time schedule to remove sludge from Pond 1.
9. In 2006, the Discharger submitted a Preliminary Engineer’s Report that evaluated
alternative treatment designs to comply with CDO R5- 2002- 0048 and improve the
WWTF’s treatment and hydraulic capacity. Based on the evaluation, the Discharger
proposed a WWT F improvements project that involved decommissioning the old
treatment ponds, relocating and construct ing a new headworks , constructing a larger
treatment pond system further from the Fresno Slough consist ing of aerated primary
treatment ponds and secondary facultative ponds, removing sludge from the decommissioned treatment ponds for use as disposal ponds , rehabilitating existing
disposal ponds to improve percolation rates, and constructing new disposal ponds with better percolation rates .
10. From 2010 through 2012, the Discharger completed construction of the proposed WWTF improvements project as available funding allowed. The project was
completed as discussed below. A site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
a. Construction included two aerated primary treatment ponds, T1 and T2, and two
secondary facultative treatment ponds, F1 and F2. Ponds T1 and F1 are run in series as are ponds T2 and F2. Additional funds were not available to complete the planned construct ion of two additional aerated primary treatment ponds, T3
and T4, and two additional secondary facultative treatment ponds, F3 and F4.
b. To increase hydraulic disposal capacity, the Discharger proposed construct ing
new disposal ponds and drai ning, cleaning , and deepening the existing disposal
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 3
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


ponds to improve percolation rates. In 2006, the Discharger proposed a location
for new disposal ponds further from the river where an identified underlying sand
lens was anticipated to have a higher percolation rate than the existing disposal
ponds. In 2011, t he Discharger constructed three new disposal ponds (Ponds 8
through 10) in the proposed location and to a depth of the sand lens. However,
within four weeks of filling the new disposal ponds with wastewater , the observed
percolation rate f ell from 0.5 feet per day to less than 0.07 feet per day, which has
remained steady. It is unclear whether the percolation rate was affected by
clogging or whether the available void space was simply filled.
c. Efforts to improve the percolation rates of existing disposal Ponds 4 through 7
were not successful during the project timeline due to wet weather conditions ,
funding availability, and project deadlines.
d. In 2012, the Discharger attempted another effort to obtain better percolation by
construct ing disposal Pond 11 in the same sand lens as Ponds 8, 9, and 10, but
Pond 11 also exhibits the same percolation rate of 0.07 feet per day. Currently, an
economically feasible solution to improve the percolation rate does not exist.
11. The flow schematic of the completed WWTF improvement project is shown on
Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
After completing the WWTF improvement project in 2012, the WWTF had an influent
pumping capacity of nearly 2.5 mgd and a treatment capacity of 1.35 mgd. However,
poor percolation of the disposal ponds limited the disposal capacity to 0.86 mgd.
12. From 2010 to 2014, the disposal capacity was not sufficient to handle influent flows ,
which averaged .970 mgd over the five year period and ranged from 0.816 mgd to
1.181 mgd as a monthly average. As a result, the Discharger used unpermitted land
areas for wastewater disposal.
13. In 2015, the Discharger cleaned the sludge out of decommissioned treatment Ponds 1 and 2 for disposal use. The Discharger also began discharging wastewater to the
bermed land area designated for the future construction of treatment ponds T3, T4, F3, and F4. This Order names this area Pond 12. With the addition of disposal Ponds 1, 2, and 12, the WWTF currently has an annual average hydraulic disposal
capacity of 1.28 mgd. This Order requires the Discharger to submit a Pond
Construction Report providing the as -built dimensions for Pond 12.
14. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
18. The Discharger was not able to complete the WWTF improvement project as
proposed due to funding limitations. When funding becomes available the Discharger plans to finish the remaining tasks of the project. These include rehabilitating and
removing the sludge from Pond 1 so that it can be used as a disposal pond,
rehabilitating Pond 6 so that it can be used as a disposal pond, and constructing four
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 5
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


additional unlined treatment ponds, T3, T4, F3, and F4.
19. The Discharger’s water balance shows that t he addit ion of disposal Pond 1 will
increase the annual average hydraulic disposal capacity by 0.03 mgd and the addition
of Pond 6 will increase the disposal capacity by 0.06 mgd. Once both ponds are
completed, the total annual average design capacity will be 1.37 MGD . The projected
2020 average monthly wastewater flow is estimated to be 1.052 mgd. This Order
requires the submittal of a pond construction report prior to using Ponds 1 and 6 for
disposal.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The Mendota community o btains its potable water supply from groundwater supply
wells, which are owned and operated by the Discharger . The original source water
wells were constructed on the west side of the San Joaquin River Bypass and were of
low quality with high turbidity and poor odor and taste quality. The three source water
wells installed in 2004 are located on the east side of the San Joaquin River Bypass
and have proven to provide higher quality water . The following table summarizes the
average annual water quality data from the source water well s as provided in the
RWD.