A. Description of Wastewater and B iosolids Treatment and Controls
Pumped raw sewage enters the Facility through a bar screen and subsequently flow
is measured through a Parshall ﬂume prior to splitting flow between ponds 1 and 2 ORDER R5-2 021-0022
NPDES NO. CA0077747
CHESTER PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
CHESTER SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5(LND-001 and LND-002). After preliminary treatment wastewater is sent through four
additional stabilization ponds connected in series. Total pond area is approximately
19 acres with a holding capacity of approximately 31 million gallons. After passing
through all stabilization ponds, over a period of approximately 48- days, efﬂuent is
conveyed through a chlorine detention basin and disinfected prior to release to either
the wetland ponds or Lake Almanor via an open 1/2-mile long channel; effluent is
dechlorinated when discharging to Lake Almanor. Secondary treated disinfected
municipal wastewater is not de-chlorinated when discharged to the wetland ponds
(LND-007, LND-008, LND-009, and LND- 010). Solar powered circulators ﬂoat in the
center of each pond; circulators are equipped with direct electrical back-up if
needed. Flow through the pond system is continuous (unless a manually operated
gate valve at the end of the chlorine detention basin is closed) and is either directed
into the wetland ponds between 1 June and 30 September, and/or to Lake Almanor
between 1 October and 30 May of the subsequent year. The total capacity of the
wetland ponds is approximately 9.5 million gallons. Stabilization ponds are
surrounded by raised levees and are not inﬂuenced by stormwater runoff; any storm
drains onsite are separate from the sanitary sewer collection system .
According to on-site personnel, sludge is not frequently removed from the
stabilization ponds. Depending on operation of the ponds, the necessity to drain and
remove sludge from the stabilization ponds is not necessary until about 20-25 years
from the date of any previous sludge removal. For sludge removal purposes, LND-
001 or LND-002 can be dewatered and allowed to dry before being disked and
scraped. Dried sludge, usually no more than an inch or two thick, is hauled offsite
and disposed of as required.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger was awarded a planning grant from the State Water Resources
Control Board in 2017 to evaluate their collection system. Efforts currently underway
at the time of adoption of this Order include development of a GIS database of the
collection system, GPS locating of sewer manholes, and CCTV inspection and
hydraulic modeling of the collection system. When all these efforts have been
completed and collection system improvements have been recommended, the
Discharger will apply for construction funding.
The Discharger applied for a planning grant from the State Water Resources Control
Board in 2020. As of the date of adoption of this Order, the Discharger has not been
awarded this planning grant. When awarded, the Discharger plans to use the
planning grant to explore options for wastewater treatment plant upgrades to
address recurring compliance issues with