The Facility treats primarily domestic wastewater collected via the Discharger’s
wastewater collection system. The wastewater treatment plant also accepts
industrial food processing wastewater from Leprino Foods Company through a
segregated industrial wastewater pipeline. The industrial food processing
wastewater is pretreated in separate treatment facilities, which are located at the
Facility, and introduced into the main treatment plant for final treatment and disposal,
as discussed in more detail below.
The Discharger provides wastewater treatment and disposal services for residences,
businesses, and industries within its service area. The Facility was originally
constructed in 1930 and has experienced four major expansions. The most recent
expansion was completed in August 2008, which increased the treatment capacity
from 9 MGD to 10.8 MGD and included nitrification, denitrification and tertiary
filtration. The Discharger is planning to complete additional upgrades to the Facility
to increase the discharge capacity up to 16 MGD by completing Facility
improvements that include construction of a second outfall pipeline and diffuser, a
second primary clarifier, a fourth aeration basin, a fourth secondary clarifier,
installation of a new filter pump for tertiary treatment, replacement of two effluent
pumps with larger capacity pumps, and construction of a sludge digester .
The Facility is composed of a main treatment facility and an industrial facility. The
main treatment facility consists of raw influent bar screening, primary sedimentation,
flow equalization, biological nutrient removal, secondary sedimentation, tertiary
filtration, chlorination, dechlorination, post-aeration, and emergency storage.
Biosolids are thickened by dissolved air flotation, anaerobically digested, dewatered
in asphalt-paved drying beds, and recycled water pumps. A temporary mechanical
dewatering centrifuge has been installed to dewater increased biosolids during
construction for phased improvements and increased capacity, with permanent
mechanical dewatering facilities being added in upcoming construction phases. The
dried biosolids are hauled off-site for land application or disposed in a landfill. The
emergency storage pond is used infrequently to divert effluent when the Facility is
under routine maintenance or if there is a problem with effluent chlorination,
dechlorination, or turbidity. Clarified primary effluent is pumped to an equalization
tank which was designed to equalize peak wet weather flows at full Facility buildout,
and then pumped to the aeration basins. If the primary effluent storage capacity of
the equalization basin is exceeded, overflow from the equalization basin is
discharged to the emergency storage pond. If an emergency requires that primary
effluent overflows to the emergency storage pond, three existing primary effluent
pumps can be operated such that primary effluent can be pumped to the primary
effluent wet well. From this point, primary effluent can be pumped to the aerationORDER R5-2 022-0073
NPDES CA0079154
CITY OF TRACY
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6b
asins or back to the equalization tank. The Discharger may also use a portion of
the emergency storage pond during cold periods of the year to divert effluent for
cooling in the pond to comply with effluent temperature limits.
The Discharger’s satellite holding ponds consists of five unlined facultative ponds
(approximately 52 acres). In addition, Leprino, a local cheese manufacturer, leases
two geotextile-lined aerated lagoons from the Discharger for preliminary treatment of
its industrial food processing wastewater. Industrial pretreatment effluent discharges
to the satellite holding ponds are regulated under an industrial pretreatment permit
issued by the Discharger. Leprino transports its industrial wastewater to the Facility
via a segregated industrial waste line. Leprino employees operate and maintain the
industrial wastewater pipeline, leased pretreatment units , and satellite holding pond
2 (HP- 002). Compliance with Leprino’s industrial pretreatment permit is measured
prior to discharge to Pond 2 (see Attachment C). Leprino’s industrial wastewater and
process water from the main treatment plant are equalized and temporarily stored in
the unlined satellite holding ponds and introduced into the primary sedimentation
basins of the main treatment facility for treatment and disposal.
This Order only regulates the surface water discharge to the Old River. Separate
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) Order R5- 2007-0038 regulates the satellite
holding ponds, industrial aerated lagoons, sludge drying beds, and biosolids storage
areas at the Facility. The Discharger also recycles a portion of its wastewater to
irrigate parks, sports fields, road medians, and other approved uses in the City’s
Master Plan. Recycled water distribution is regulated by separate State Water Board
Water Quality Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW, Water Reclamation Requirements for
Recycled Water Use.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to expand the treatment capacity of the Facility to 16 MGD
through a four-phase expansion. Phase 1, which was completed in August 2008,
included an increase in capacity from 9 MGD to 10.8 MGD and implementation of
nitrification/denitrification and tertiary filtration. All the sludge drying beds have been
paved with asphalt cement pavement. As described in the ROWD, the Phase 2
improvements include the construction of a second outfall, Discharge Point 002,
near the existing outfall and construction of a new primary clarifier to increase the
discharge capacity to 12.5 MGD. The proposed Phase 3 improvements include the
construction of a solids processing facility and installation of a new filter pump for
tertiary treatment to increase the discharge capacity to 13.6 MGD. The proposed
Phase 4 improvements include the construction of a new secondary clarifier and
aeration basin and the construction of a sludge digester to increase the discharge
capacity to 16 MGD . Discharge Point 2 is operational as of October 2022 and
construction of the second primary clarifier is in progress. The Discharger also plans
to construct permanent mechanical biosolids dewatering facilities and construction of
those facilities is anticipated to start in 2023.
III.