A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of bar screening and grit removal, two
primary clarifiers, two activated sludge reactors, three secondary clarifiers, and
chlorination/dichlorination for disinfection. Disinfected wastewater is discharged
throu gh a diffuser at Discharge Point 001 to the Sacramento River.
Sludge is dewatered off -site at the Discharger’s Northwest Wastewater Treatment
and Reclamation Facility by belt filter press dewatering, followed by solar
greenhouse drying to Class A biosolids quality. Approximately 150 cubic yards of
biosolids at 95% so lids content are produced per year Transportation and
disposal/reuse of the biosolids are regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.ORDER R5-2 024-0054
NPDES CA0079588
CITY OF RIO VISTA
BEACH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-9A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as a n NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this Facility to surface waters .
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
Division 13 of the Public Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1.Water Quality Control Plan . Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the applicable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basin Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Wate r Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fifth Edition, May 2018 OR Tulare Lake Basin, Third Edition, May 2018
(hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to
achieve those objectives for all waters addressed t hrough the plan.
Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan . In addition, the
Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitab le for municipal or domestic supply
(MUN) . Beneficial uses applicable to Sacramento River within the
Sacramento -San Joaquin Delta are as follows:
Table F -3 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point