A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Facility Overview: The Facility consists of four main complexes to manage the
collected combined sewage: Sumps 1/1A, Sumps 2/2A, the Pioneer Reservoir Treatment Plant (Pioneer Reservoir), and the Combined Wastewater Treatment
Plant (CWTP). The CSS conveys domestic and industrial wastewater and storm runoff to Sumps 2/2A, where up to 60 MGD of flow is pumped via the Regional
Force Main and City Interceptor to SacSewer’s Echowater Facility for tertiary
treatment prior to discharge to the Sacramento River.
When flow to Sumps 2/2A exceeds 60 MGD , in system storage begins and,
depending on the storm intensity and duration, flows may be routed to the CWTP (7
million gallons of storage capacity in the CWTP and approximately 2.5 million
gallons of storage in the CWTP Force Main) and/or Pioneer Reservoir (23 million
gallons of storage capacity in the Pioneer R eservoir and 5 million gallons of storage
capacity in the Pioneer Interceptor) . When the CWTP has optimized storage, flows
continue to be sent to the Pioneer Reservoir for primary treatment (including sedimentation and floatables removal, and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite) of up to 250 MGD and, after dechlorination (using sodium bisulfite), discharge to the
Sacramento River at Discharge Point 006 and/or sent via the CWTP Force Main to the CWTP. In the CWTP, an additional 130 MGD of combined wastewater receives
primary treatment (including sedimentation and floatables removal, and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite) and, after dechlorination (using sodium bisulfite), discharges to the Sacramento River at Discharge Points 002 or 003. The CWTP basins may also be used for storage of up to 9. 5 million gallons (including the CWTP
Force Main) of flow and diversion of flows back to the SRWTP. During major storms, Sumps 1/1A/1B can also pump up to 200 MGD of flow to Pioneer Reservoir.
Collected sludge from the CWTP and Pioneer Reservoir is sent to the SRWTP.
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER ORDER R5 -2026- 0003
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM NPDES NO. CA0079111

ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET F-6 During extreme high flow conditions after treatment has been maximized at Pioneer
Reservoir and the CWTP, discharges of untreated combined wastewater may occur at Sump 2/2A through Discharge Points 004 and 005 and at the Sump 1/1A Pioneer Bypass at Discharge Point 007. Each of the six permitted combined sewer overflow
(CSO) Discharge Points (002 through 007) discharge directly to the Sacramento River.
 The Facility also includes several remote storage facilities at strategic locations within the CSS to minimize the potential for localized flooding and outflows . The
table below summarizes the Discharger’s remote storage facilities. In addition to
these designated storage facilities, the collection system is oversized to provide in -
line storage throughout the service area.
Table F -2. CSS Remote Storage Facilities
Remote Storage Facility Location Capacity
(Million Gallons)
42nd Street (Sump 77) 42nd Street and R Street 1.5
Medical Center (Sump 78) 49th Street and V Street 2.8
Tahoe Broadway (In -Line) Broadway Blvd and Tahoe Park 1.5
Land Park (In -Line) North of City Zoo 0.4
U&S Parallel Sewer East of Sump 1 and 1A 0.4
Oak Park Regional Storage Facility 8th Avenue and San Carlos Way 4
McKinley Water Vault McKinley Park 6.6

Long Term Control Plan (LTCP): In the 1980s and early 1990s , it was recognized
that the combined stormwater and sewage system in downtown Sacramento posed
health and safety problems beyond the periodic discharge of poorly treated or
untreated sewage to the Sacramento River. Wet weather flooding was occurring
within the City, either because combined system pipes were inadequate to drain
away local runoff, or because those pipes were already filled to capacity by
upstream runoff and there was nowhere for local runoff to go. Most seriously, at
times upstream storm water and sewage would so overload the piping that the
combined storm water and raw sewage would flow out of storm water inlets, flooding
streets, yards, houses and commercial establishments with combined storm water
and sewage.
The Central Valley Water Board initiated discussions with the Discharger and subsequently enforcement actions concerning the environmental and public health concerns associated with both the discharge to the Sacramento River and the outflow of sewage from the combined system pipes into the City. The initial discussions assumed that separate sewer and storm water systems would need to be constructed, but after considerable study, the City proposed enhancements to the combined system rather than construction of separate systems. Costs to separate the system have been evaluated and found to be much greater than costs to enhance the system. The Central Valley Water Board, after careful consideration
and hearings, accepted and approved the Discharger’s proposal to enhance the combined system. The general areas of improvement were:
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER ORDER R5 -2026- 0003
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM NPDES NO. CA0079111

ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET F-7 • Increased storage of combined system wastewater prior to discharge to the Sacramento River to capture the maximum volume of water feasible during wet weather events to optimize the pumping of combined system wastewater to the SRWTP.
• Improved pumping, piping, and controls to allow maximum use of the
increased wastewater storage.
• Improved treatment of combined system wastewater discharges to the Sacramento River.
• Selective replacement of bottlenecks in the combined system piping to provide adequate drainage for storm water and prevention of local flooding and sewage outflows.
• At locations where increased piping size alone would not eliminate flooding and outflows, storage volume was provided within the collection system to hold peak flows. This also increased the overall storage of the combined system, reducing discharges to the Sacramento River.
• Development of a hydraulic model of the combined system to allow identification of projects to optimize the system.
• Commitment of minimum annual expenditures for combined system improvements.
The advantages of enhancing the combined system over construction of separate systems included:
• Elimination of all dry weather discharges and most wet weather discharges of storm water to the Sacramento River from the combined system area. If a separate storm water system was constructed, the collected urban runoff and storm water would presumably be discharged
untreated to the Sacramento River, rather than being treated at the EchoWater Facility to tertiary treatment standards.
• Reduction in flooding in the downtown area. The existing piping was not adequate to handle storm water flows, so would need to be replaced with larger piping and pumping facilities in many areas. The existing piping was also not well designed to handle only sewage and would need significant improvement if the existing piping was to carry only sewage. It appeared that, in parts of the City, two new piping systems would need to be constructed.
• If a separated system was to be constructed, piping would need to be modified in essentially every street throughout the CSS service area, causing major disruption of traffic and safety issues for years. Enhancement of the existing combined system required construction in
more limited areas of the City.
The U.S. EPA CSO Control Policy requires implementation of a Long -Term Control
Plan (LTCP) to comply with water quality -based requirements of the Clean Water
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER ORDER R5 -2026- 0003
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM NPDES NO. CA0079111

ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET F-8 Act. The ultimate goal of the LTCP has been to alleviate outflows and flooding in the
CSS area during a 10- year storm event and to prevent structure flooding during a
100-year storm event. In July 1995, the Discharger adopted the Combined Sewer
System Improvement Plan (CSSIP) which constituted the Discharger’s LTCP. The
CSSIP is a legacy requirement from a 1990 Central Valley Water Board Cease and Desist Order (CDO) that required the City to cease and desist from discharging waste contrary to requirements and implement a plan to address outflows. The
Discharger has made multiple updates to the original 1995 CSSIP and now implements the 20 24 LTCP in compliance with the CSO Control Policy requirement.
The interim goals established in the 1995 CSSIP were as follows:
• Obtaining protection from a 5- year storm in the six areas of worst flooding
(including downtown, north of Capit ol Park; U.C. Medical Center area;
immediately south of Highway 80 between Riverside and Freeport; the area northeast of Highway 99 and Highway 80 interchange; the area northwest of Highway 99 and Highway 80 interchange, and the Land Park area),
• Obtaining protection from a 5- year storm throughout the combined sewer
system area,
• Obtaining protection from a 10- year storm in the six areas of worst
flooding, and then
• Obtaining the goal of protection from a 10- year storm event throughout the
combined sewer system.
The Discharger’s program is based on the presumption approach. This approach is defined in the U.S. EPA CSO Control Policy as a “… program that meets any of the
criteria listed below would be presumed to provide an adequate level of control to meet the water quality -based requirements of the CWA, provided the permitting
authority determines that such presumption is reasonable in light of the data and
analysis conducted in the characterization, monitoring, and modeling of the system and the consideration of s ensitive areas described above. These criteria are
provided because data and modeling of wet weather events often do not give a clear picture of the level of CSO controls necessary to protect WQS [ Water Quality
Standards ]”.
The performance criteria for the presumption approach option selected by the Discharger specifies the elimination or the capture for treatment of no less than 85 percent by volume of the combined sewage collected in the CSS during precipitation events (days with at least 0.1" of rainfall in previous 24 hour period) on a system -
wide annual average basis. In addition, CSO’s remaining after implementation of the Nine Minimum Controls and that is captured for treatment should receive a minimum of:
• Primary clarification (removal of floatables and settleable solids may be achieved by any combination- of treatment technologies or methods that
are shown to be equivalent to primary clarification);
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER ORDER R5 -2026- 0003
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM NPDES NO. CA0079111

ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET F-9 • Solids and floatables disposal; and
• Disinfection of effluent, if necessary, to meet WQS, protect designated uses and protect human health, including removal of harmful disinfection chemical residuals, where necessary.
The first phase of the 1995 CSSIP concluded that increasing the pumping capacities
of Sumps 1/1A and 2/2A concurrent with rehabilitation of the CSS and development of local storage projects, was the most cost -effective approach for reducing flooding
and outflows from the CSS. Order R5 -2015- 0045 required the Discharger to update
its CSSIP while continuing implementation. The updated CSSIP was submitted in 2018 and renamed as the Discharger’s LTCP, and a revision was submitted in 2019 with the ROWD.
The 2014 CSSIP update identified 28 projects and three programs that were
prioritized based on considerations such as flood- reduction benefits, cost
effectiveness, ensuring no increase in untreated discharges, sewer condition/age, cost sharing opportunities, and City/community interests.
The 2018 LTCP update evaluated the CSS impacts on water quality per the CSO Policy and the 1995 LTCP Guidance Manual. The 2013 WQA concluded that the infrequent and short duration of CSS overflow discharges and pollutant loadings do not impact applicable

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – none
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this F acility to surface waters.
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER ORDER R5 -2026- 0003
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM NPDES NO. CA0079111

ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET F-13 B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA (Pub. Res . Code, § 21100 et seq. ). This
Order contains