1. Annual production totals in dry tons or cubic yards.
2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the
disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage
disposed of by each method.
a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order
number of WDRs that regulate it.
b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of
ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).
d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
Reclamation Area
1. The type of crop(s) grown in the Reclamation Area, planting and harvest dates, and the
quantified nitrogen and fixed dissolved solids uptakes (as estimated by technical
references or, preferably, determined by representative plant tissue analysis).
2. The monthly and annual discharge volumes during the reporting year expressed as
million gallons and inches.
3. A monthly balance for the reporting year that includes:
a. Monthly average ETa (observed evapotranspiration) -Information sources include
California Irrigation Management Information System (CIMIS)
http://www.cimis.water.ca.gov/
b. Monthly crop uptake
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-00BB
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
i. Crop water utilization rates are available from a variety of publications
available from the local University of California Davis extension office.
ii. Irrigation efficiency -Frequently, engineers include a factor for irrigation
efficiency such that the application rate is slightly greater than the crop
utilization rate. A conservative design does not include this value.
c. Monthly average precipitation -this data is available at
http://www.cimis.water.ca.gov/ or at
http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/climate/online/ccd/nrmlprcp.html.
d. Monthly average and annual average discharge flow rate.
e. Monthly estimates of the amount of wastewater percolating below the root zone
(i.e., amount of wastewater applied in excess of crop requirements)
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
Ordered by:
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer ~ 10(1,ooq
(Date)
DMS/DKP: 6/09/2009 -9-
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND '-10-
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
BODs
CBOD
DO
EC
FDS
NTU
TKN
TDS TSS
Continuous
24-Hour Composite
Daily
Twice Weekly
Weekly
Twice Monthly
Monthly Bimonthly
Quarterly
Semiannually
Annually
mg/L
ml/L
µg/L µmhos/cm
mgd
MPN/100
ml
General Minerals GLOSSARY
Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
Carbonaceous BOD
Dissolved oxygen
Electrical conductivity at 25' C
Fixed dissolved solids
Nephelometric turbidity unit
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
Total dissolved solids
Total suspended solids
The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
Samples shall be a flow-proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots.
Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non-consecutive days.
Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non-consecutive
weeks.
Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per
year) during non-consecutive months.
Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April,
July, and October.
Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per
year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in
April and October.
Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
Milligrams per liter
milliliters [of solids] per liter
Micrograms per liter
Micromhos per centimeter
Million gallons per day
Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium
General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
Table 1. Priority Pollutant Scan
lnorganics1 Organics
Antimony Acrolein
Arsenic Acrylonitrile
Beryllium Benzene
Cadmium Bromoform
Chromium (Ill) Carbon tetrachloride
Chromium (VI) Chlorobenzene
Copper Chlorodibromomethane
Lead Chloroethane
Mercury 2-Chloroethylvinyl Ether
Nickel Chloroform
Selenium Dichlorobromomethane
Silver 1, 1-Dichloroethane
Thallium 1,2-Dichloroethane
Zinc 1, 1-Dichloroethylene
Cyanide 1,2-Dichloropropane
Asbestos 1,3-Dichloropropylene
Ethylbenzene
Dioxin Congeners Methyl Bromide
2,3,7,8-TCDD Methyl Chloride
1,2,3,7,8-PentaCDD Methylene Chloride
1,2,3,4,7,8-HexaCDD 1, 1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
1,2,3,6,7,B-HexaCDD Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)
1,2,3,7,8,9-HexaCDD Toluene
1,2,3,4,6, 7,8-HeptaCDD 1,2-Trans-Dichloroethylene
OctaCDD 1, 1, 1-Trichloroethane
2,3,7,B-TetraCDF 1, 1,2-Trichloroethane
1,2,3,7,8-PentaCDF Trichloroethylene (TCE)
2,3,4, 7,8-PentaCDF Vinyl chloride
1,2,3,4,7,B-HexaCDF 2-Chlorophenol
1,2,3,6, 7,8-HexaCDF 2,4-Dichlorophenol
1,2,3,7,8,9-HexaCDF 2,4-Dimethylphenol
2,3,4,6,7,B-HexaCDF 2-Methyl-4,6-Dinitrophenol
1,2,3,4,6, 7,8-HeptaCDF 2,4-Dinitrophenol
1,2,3,4, 7,8,9-HeptaCDF 2-Nitrophenol
OctaCDF 4-Nitrophenol -11-
3-Methyl-4-Chlorophenol Hexachlorobenzene
Pentachlorophenol Hexachlorobutadiene
Phenol Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol Hexachloroethane
Acenaphthene lndeno(1,2,3-c,d)pyrene
Acenaphthylene lsophorone
Anthracene Naphthalene
Benzidine Nitrobenzene
Benzo(a)Anthracene N-Nitrosodimethylamine
Benzo(a)pyrene N-Nitrosodi-n-Propylamine
Benzo(b)fluoranthene N-Nitrosodiphenylamine
Benzo(g ,h,i)perylene Phenanthrene
Benzo(k)fluoranthene Pyrene
Bis(2-chloroethoxy) methane 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
Bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether Pesticides
Bis(2-Ethylhexyl)phthalate Aldrin
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether alpha-BHC
Butylbenzyl Phthalate beta-BHC
2-Chloronaphthalene gamma-BHC (Lindane)
4-Chlorophenyl Phenyl Ether delta-BHC
Chrysene Chlordane
Dibenzo(a, h)Anthracene 4,4'-DDT
1,2-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDE
1,3-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDD
1,4-Dichlorobenzene Dieldrin
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine alpha-Endosulfan
Diethyl phthalate beta-Endosulfan
Dimethyl phthalate Endosulfan Sulfate
Di-n-Butyl Phthalate Endrin
2,4-Dinitrotoluene Endrin Aldehyde
2,6-Dinitrotoluene Heptachlor
Di-n-Octyl Phthalate Heptachlor epoxide
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine Polychlorinated biphenyls
Fluoranthene Toxaphene
Fluorene
With the exception of wastewater samples, samples placed in an acid-preserved bottle for metals analysis must first be
filtered. If filtering in the field is not feasible, samples shall be collected In unpreserved containers and submitted to the
laboratory within 24 hours with a request (on the chain of custody form) lo immediately filter then preserve the sample.
2 Samples to be analyzed for volatile compounds and phthalate esters shall be grab samples; the remainder shall be 24-hour
composite samp'les.
Map Source:
NAIPAerial Photograph (2005)
e
SCALE OF Ml LES
0 0.25 0,5 SITE MAP
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0088
FOR
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1
AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY ATTACHMENT A
Influent Headworks
Supernatant
NOT TO SCALE Primary
Clarifier
Sludge
Primary
Digester Slud e Trickling
Filter
Secondary
Clarifier Effluent
To Storage Ponds/
Farmland
Sludge Drying Beds
Mechanical Dewatering
{Future)
PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0088
FOR
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1
AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY ATIACHMENTB
NONPOTABLE WATER INTERNATIONAL SYMBOL
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. RS-2009-0088
FOR
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1
AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY ATTACHMENT C
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT D
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
Prior to installation of groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit a work plan
containing, at a minimum, the information listed in Section 1, below. Wells may be installed
after staff approve the work plan. Upon installation, the Discharger shall submit a well
installation report that includes the information contained in Section 2, below. All work plans
and reports must be prepared under the direction of, and certified by, a California registered
geologist or civil engineer.
SECTION 1 -Monitoring Well Installation Work Plan and
Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan
The monitoring well installation work plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
A. General Information:
Purpose of the well installation project
Brief description of local geologic and hydrogeologic conditions
Proposed monitoring well locations and rationale for well locations
Topographic map showing facility location, roads, and surface water bodies
Large-scaled site map showing all existing on-site wells, proposed wells, surface water
bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities, utilities, and
major physical and man-made features
B. Drilling Details:
On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities
Description of drilling equipment and techniques
Equipment decontamination procedures
Cuttings disposal methods
Soil sampling intervals (if appropriate); logging methods; number and location of soil
samples and rationale; and sample collection, preservation, and analytical
methods
C. Monitoring Well Design (in graphic form with rationale provided in narrative form):
Diagram of proposed well construction details
-Borehole diameter
-Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
-Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws)
-Anticipated depth of well, length of well casing, and length and position of
perforated interval
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER N0.2009-0088
ATTACHMENT D -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand
pack
-Anticipated screen slot size and filter pack
D. Well Development (not to be performed until at least 48 hours after sanitary seal
placement):
Method of development to be used (i.e., surge, bail, pump, etc.)
Parameters to be monitored during development and record keeping technique
Method of determining when development is complete
Disposal of development water
E. Well Survey (precision of vertical survey data shall be at least 0.01 foot):
Identify the Licensed Land Surveyor or Civil Engineer that will perform the survey
Datum for survey measurements
List well features to be surveyed (i.e., top of casing, horizontal and vertical
coordinates, etc.)
F. Schedule for Completion of Work
G. Appendix: Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP) -2 -
The Groundwater SAP, a guidance document that is referred to by individuals
responsible for conducting groundwater monitoring and sampling activities, shall
contain, at a minimum, a detailed written description of standard operating procedures
for:
• Equipment to be used during sampling
• Equipment decontamination procedures
• Water level measurement procedures
• Well purging (include a discussion of procedures to follow if three casing
volumes cannot be purged)
• Monitoring and record keeping during water level measurement and well
purging (include copies of record keeping logs to be used)
• Purge water disposal
• Analytical methods and required reporting limits
• Sample containers and preservatives
• Sampling
-General sampling techniques
-Record keeping during sampling (include copies of record keeping logs
to be used)
-QA/QC samples
• Chain of Custody
• Sample handling and transport
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER N0.2009-0088
ATIACHMENT D-STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
SECTION 2 -Monitoring Well Installation Report
The monitoring well installation report must provide the information listed below. In addition,
the report must also clearly identify, describe, and justify any deviations from the approved
work plan.
A. General Information:
Purpose of the well installation project
Number of monitoring wells installed and identifying label(s) for each
Brief description of geologic and hydrogeologic conditions encountered during well
installation
Topographic map showing facility location, roads, surface water bodies
Large-scaled site map showing all previously existing wells, newly installed wells,
surface water bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities,
utilities, and other major physical and man-made features.
B. Drilling Details (in narrative and/or graphic form):
On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities
Drilling contractor and driller's name
Description of drilling equipment and techniques
Equipment decontamination procedures
Well boring log (provide for each well)
Well boring number and date drilled
Borehole diameter and total depth
Total depth of open hole (i.e., total depth drilled if no caving or back-grouting
occurs)
Depth to first encountered groundwater and stabilized groundwater depth
Detailed description of soils encountered, using the Unified Soil Classification
System
C. Well Construction Details (provide for each well):
Well construction diagram including:
Monitoring well number and date constructed
Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
Length of well casing
Length and position of slotted casing and size of perforations
Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand
pack
Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws) -3-
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER N0.2009-0088
ATTACHMENT D -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
E. Well Development (provide for each well):
Date(s) and method of development
How well development completion was determined
Volume of water purged from well and method of development water disposal
F. Well Survey (provide for each well): -4-
Reference elevation at the top rim of the well casing with the cap removed (feet above
. mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
G. Ground surface elevation (feet above mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
Horizontal geodetic location, where the point of beginning shall be described by the
California State Plane Coordinate System, 1983 datum, or acceptable alternative
(provide rationale)
Present the well survey report data in a table
Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling
How well was purged
How many well volumes purged
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization
Sample collection, handling, and preservation
methods Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Water level elevation(s)
Groundwater contour map
H. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Date(s) of sampling
Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Present soil sampling data in a table
I. Well Completion Report(s) (as defined in California Water Code §13751 ). Blank forms
are available from California Department of Water Resources' website
www.water.ca.gov. Submit this section under separate cover.
J. Appendix -include, at a minimum, copies of the following:
County-issued well construction permits
Registered engineer or licensed surveyor's report and field notes
Field notes from well development
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
A. Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF)
1. Describe treatment processes at the wastewater treatment facility.
2. List significant industrial users (SI Us) that discharge to the wastewater treatment
facility and describe how SIUs affect sludge production, sludge handling, and
biosolids disposal.
3. Indicate whether the WWTF has an adopted source control ordinance or a
pretreatment program, and if the latter whether the program is approved by the
Board.
4. Indicate whether WWTF accepts septage and, if so, describe septage handling
operation facilities.
5. Provide a WWTF site map showing:
a. existing sludge handling facilities (e.g., sludge drying beds and sludge storage
areas)
b. abandoned sludge handling facilities (if applicable)
c. location of groundwater monitoring wells, if any, and groundwater gradient.
B. Sludge Production
1. Provide a schematic diagram showing solids flow and sludge handling operations;
include, where applicable, supernatant flow and handling operations.
2. Specify the quantity of sludge expected to annually accumulate in each wastewater
treatment process, how it is quantified, and the expected removal frequency.
3. For sludge handling facilities with sludge drying beds:
a. Describe number and size of sludge drying beds.
b. Describe sludge drying bed construction (e.g., liner, leachate collection
system).
c. If sludge drying beds are not lined, thoroughly describe measures taken to
ensure that area groundwater is not adversely affected by sludge drying
operations.
d. Indicate the expected frequency with which sludge will be applied to and
removed from sludge drying beds.
4. Describe how biosolids are transferred to onsite biosolids storage facility (if
applicable). If biosolids are removed directly from sludge drying beds, provide a
plan that indicates when during the year you expect to dispose of biosolids and
explain that whoever is responsible for disposing of your biosolids will be able to
remove and dispose it at this time.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
C. Biosolids Characterization -2-
1. Describe proposed sampling procedures by indicating number of samples, sample
locations, and sample composition. For reference consult POTW Sludge Sampling
an Analysis Guidance Document, published by the EPA Publication No. 833-B-89-
100.
2. Describe the methods proposed to meet the necessary levels of pathogen
reduction
(i.e., Class A or B according to 40 CFR 503.32) for the proposed method of sludge
disposal.
3. Describe the methods proposed to meet vector reduction requirements, in
accordance with
40 CFR Part 503.33.
D. Biosolids Storage
1. If on-site biosolids storage is used,
a. Describe:
i. Size of biosolids storage area
ii. How frequently it will be used (emergency basis only or routine use)
iii. Typical storage duration
iv. Leachate controls
v. Erosion controls
vi. Run-on/runoff controls
b. Indicate measures that will be taken to ensure that area groundwater is not
adversely affected by the biosolids storage facility.
c. For biosolids storage facilities that contain biosolids between 1 October and 30
April, describe how facilities are designed and maintained to prevent washout
or inundation from a storm or flood with a return frequency of 100 years.
d. Provide a map of showing setback distances from (where applicable)
i. Property lines
ii. Domestic water supply wells
iii. Non-Domestic water supply wells
iv. Public roads and occupied onsite residences
v. Surface waters, including wetlands, creeks, ponds, lakes, underground
aqueducts, and marshes
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
vi. Primary agricultural drainage ways
vii. Occupied non-agricultural buildings and off-site residences
viii. Primary tributary to a waterway or reservoir used for domestic water supply
ix. Domestic surface water supply intake
E. Spill Response Plan
1. Emergency contacts and notification procedures
2. Personal protective equipment requirements
3. Response instructions for
a. spill during biosolids transport
b. storage facility failure
c. when hazardous or other unauthorized material is found
F. Method of Disposal
1. Describe and provide the following information related to biosolids disposal
method(s). If more than one method will be utilized, include the percentage of
annual biosolids production expected to be disposed of by each method.
a. Landfill Disposal
i. Name(s) and location(s) of landfill(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the landfill(s).
iii. Present classification of the landfill(s).
iv. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the landfill(s).
b. Incineration
i. Name(s) and location(s) of incineration site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the incineration site(s).
iii. Method of disposal of ash from the incineration site(s).
iv. Names.and locations of facilities receiving ash from the incineration site(s),
if applicable.
v. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the incineration
site(s). .3.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER ND. 2009-0088
ATIACHMENTE
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
c. Composting
i. Name(s) and location(s) of composting site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the composting site(s).
iii. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the composting
site(s).
d. Land Application
i. Ownership of the site(s) where biosolids are applied.
ii. Assessor Parcel Numbers (APNs) of site(s) where biosolids are applied.
iii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the biosolids application site(s). -4-
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT F
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS
FOR
WASTEWATER TREATEMENT FACILITIES
The purpose of the Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) is to budget and manage nutrients
applied to land application area(s) considering all sources of nutrients, crop requirements, soil
types, climate, and local conditions in order to prevent adverse impacts to surface water and
groundwaterquality. The NMP must take site-specific conditions into consideration in
identifying steps that will minimize nutrient movement through surface runoff or leaching past
the root zone.
The NMP must contain, at a minimum, all the elements listed below under Contents of a
Nutrient Management Plan and must be updated in response to changing conditions,
monitoring results, and other factors.
A specialist who is certified in developing nutrient management plans shall develop the NMP.
A certified specialist is a Professional Soil Scientist, Professional Agronomist, or Crop Advisor
certified by the American Society of Agronomy or a Technical Service Provider certified in
nutrient management in California by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).
The Executive Officer may approve alternative proposed specialists. Only NMPs prepared
and signed by these parties will be considered certified.
The Monitoring and Reporting Program specifies minimum amounts of monitoring that must
be conducted at the wastewater treatment facility (WWTF). As indicated below, this
information must be used to make management decisions related to nutrient management.
Likewise, the timing and amounts of wastewater applications to crops must be known to
correctly calculate the amount of storage needed.
Waste and land application areas shall be managed to prevent contamination of crops grown
for human consumption. The term "crops grown for human consumption" refers only to crops
that will not undergo subsequent processing which adequately removes potential microbial
danger to consumers.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATTACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
Contents of a Nutrient Management Plan -2-
The NMP shall identify the name, address of owner and operator and shall.contain all of the
following elements to demonstrate that the Discharger can control nutrient losses that may
impact surface water or

===PLANNED CHANGES===

