Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater treatment
plant. The treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, extended aeration
sludge process.ing, secondary clarification, disinfection and dechlorination processes.
The treatment system also includes two emergency stor~ge ponds that can receive
. wastewater from the influent distribution box or from the chlorine contact chamber box.
The two emergency storage ponds are shown in Attachment C1 and C2 and may be
used during system problems to store wastewater and return the wastewater back into
the head works. The wastewater is discharged from a polishing wetland to an irrigation
channel that crosses three separate ranches not under the ownership or control of the
Discharger.
SUSANVILLE SANITARY DISTRICT -4-, ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0022
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102695 -'. .
Each ranch flood irrigates using water from both the wastewater irrigation channel and
from Jensen Slough. The Jensen Slough is considered a water of the United States,
and a tributary to the Susan River. Tail water from irrigation practice, which may be a
.mixture of water from Jensen slough and treated effluent, is returned to Jensen Slough
for use at the next ranch. At the third property the wastewater combined with Jensen
slough water is used for irrigation or the combined flow goes to the Susan River, which
is where the Jensen Slough terminates. Attachment B provides a map of the area
around the Facility. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the Facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean
Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the California Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve, as a NPDES permit for point source
discharges from this facility to surface waters. This Order also serves as Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the Water
Code (commencing with section 13260).
D. Background and Rationale for Requirements. The Lahontan Water Board
developed the requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
application, through monitoring and reporting programs, and other available information.
The Fact Sheet (Attachment F), which contains background information and rationale
for Order requirements, is hereby incorporated into this Order and constitutes part of the
Findings for this Order. Attachment A through I are also incorporated into this Order.
E. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Under Water Code section 13389,
this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of CEQA, Public
Resources Code sections 21100-21177.
F. Technology-Based

===PLANNED CHANGES===

