Board Staff Comments on RWD Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County
The Facility has a design daily average flow rate of 18 million gallons per day (MGD). During 2019, the annual average daily flow was 13.44 MGD. The Facility provides tertiary, disinfected treatment by utilizing the following treatment process sequence: comminution, grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge treatment with
biological nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, inert -media gravity
filtration, and chloramine disinfection. Prior to delivery to Piute Ponds, disinfected recycled water is dechlorinated to protect aquatic life. Influent flow to the Facility is conveyed from the Sanitation District’s sewer collection system. Solids processing occurs onsite and biosolids are hauled off -site for composting. See Attachment D for a
process -flow schematic.
9.2. Industrial Pretreatment Program
As required under CCR, title 23, section 2233(a), Publicly Owned Treatment Works
treating an average dry weather flow of 5 MGD or more of community wastewater must
have and enforce an adequate pretreatment program approved by the Water Board.
The Discharger implements a pretreatment program to prevent the introduction of constituents that will interfere with the operation of the treatment works, pass through
the treatment system, reduce opportunities to recycle and reuse domestic wastewater and sludge, or expose operators to hazardous chemicals. The pretreatment plan should
address the pretreatment requirements contained in 40 CFR 403. Water Board staff
notified the Discharger that its pretreatment program satisfied these requirements by letter on December 23, 2013. This Board Order approves the pretreatment program and
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 17 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
requires submitta l of an annual report of effectiveness to the Water Board.
9.3. Sewer Collection System
Domestic and industrial wastewater from authorized dischargers is delivered to the
Discharger’s main trunk sewer collection system for delivery to the Facility’s headworks.
9.4. Septage Receiving
The Facility accepts liquid waste consisting of portable toilet, septic tank, and cesspool wastes of domestic origin in compliance with 40 CFR 4035(b)(8). Approximately 85,000 gallons per month were received in 2019. The Facility liquid w aste handling station
consists of a septage interceptor connected to the trunk sewer. The trunk sewer directs flow to the plant headworks for treatment. Grit removal from the interceptor is conducted on a biweekly basis.
9.5. Head works
The headworks consists of an influent pump station, comminutors, bar screen, aerated
grit chambers, and primary sedimentation. There are six primary sedimentation tanks that are operated in parallel. Primary sludge and skimmings are pumped to the anaerobic digestion system.
9.6. Secondary Treatment
Following primary sedimentation, effluent is pumped into nine aeration tanks divided into three aeration units operating in parallel with biological nitrification and denitrification. The secondary clarifiers consist of 14 tanks operating in parallel. Return activated sludge is sent back to one of each aeration tank. Waste activated sludge is sent to the dissolved air flotation system prior to being sent to the anaerobic digestion system.
9.7. Recycled Water Treatment
Effluent is disinfected with chloramine (ammonia and sodium hypochlorite) prior to
entering six dual media gravity filters for reduction of turbidity and suspended solids. Filtrate is sent to chlorine contact tanks while backwash is sent to influent sewer or aeration tanks. Chlorine contact tanks provide residence time for disinfection by
chloramines, which are formed by the addition of ammonia and sodium hypochlorite to the effluent.
9.7.1. Recycled Water Exceptions
As stated in the CCR , title 22, section 60303, recycled water requirements do not apply
to recycled water used onsite at a water recycling plant or wastewater treatment plant, provided access by the public to the area of onsite recycled water use is restricted.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 18 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
9.7.2. Recycled Water Requirements
This Board Order includes water -recycling Producer requirements for the wastewater
treatment plant and User requirements for Piute Ponds and the EAS. It requires the
Discharger to comply with Uniform Statewide Reclamation Criteria (CCR, title 22,
sections 60301 through 60355) established pursuant to CWC, section 13521. As
required under CCR, title 22, section 60323, the Discharger has completed an
engineering report for the Facility . User requirements for all other recycled water uses
are established in the MWRRs .
Discharge to unauthorized locations is prohibited by this B oard Order.
9.7.3. Recycled Water Use
Currently, the Discharger delivers recycled water under MWRR s issued in Board Order
No. R6V -2009- 0141. The following uses of disinfected tertiary recycled water are
permitted under the MWRRs.
• Irrigation for parks and playgrounds
• Irrigation for school yards
• Irrigation for residential landscaping (non- individually owned common areas)
• Irrigation for golf courses (both restricted and unrestricted access)
• Irrigation for cemeteries
• Irrigation for freeways and greenbelt landscaping
• Irrigation for landfills
• Consolidation of backfill (around potable and non- potable pipes)
• Firefighting (both structural and non- structural)
• Mixing concrete
• Soil compaction
• Deco rative fountains
• Flushing sanitary sewers
• Flushing toilets and urinals
• Dust control for construction activities (includes demolition)
• Dust control on roads and streets
• Dust control at landfills
• Commercial laundries
• Priming drain traps
• Cleaning roads (street sweeping), sidewalks, and outdoor work areas
The State Water Board adopted the following related to recycled water.
• Criteria for the treatment and use of recycled water in CCR , title 22, section
60001 et seq.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 19 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
• T he Water Quality Control Policy for Recycled Water ( Policy1) to encourage the
safe use of Recycled Water from wastewater sources that meet the definition in
CWC, section 13050(n).
• Board Order WQ 2016 -0068- DWQ allowing entities to enroll for coverage to
become an Administrator of recycled water. Eligibl e permittees must submit a
Title 22 Engineering Report to the Department of Drinking Water (DDW) for review and approval along with a Notice of Intent application for coverage to the Water Board.
The Discharger i s in the process of apply ing for coverage as a Producer and
Administrator of recycled water under State Water Board Order No. 2016- 0068- DWQ. If
the coverage is obtained, State Water Board Order No. 2016- 0068- DWQ would replace
the use area authorizations adopted in the M WRRs. This provides consistency with the
Policy for recycled water uses and establishes recycled water treatment requirements that encourage the safe use of recycled water that protects health and the environment.
The DDW , under CCR, title 22, section 60305, classified Piute Pond as restricted
recreational impoundment. Recycled water discharged to Piute Ponds must meet at
least disinfected secondary -2.2 recycled water. Recycled water used for surface
irrigation at the EAS for livestock fiber and fodder crops per CCR , title 22, section
60304, must be at least undisinfected secondary recycled water.
9.8. Effluent Quality
The Facility will produce disinfected , tertiary -treated effluent that will be discharged to
lined Stage V Reservoirs, internal plant uses, EAS, Piute Ponds, and other authorized recycled water uses under the Discharger’s Administrator authority.
9.8.1. Effluent Wastewater Quality

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any of the WDRs conditions.
14.6. Severability
Provisions of this Board Order are severable. If any provision of the requirements is
found invalid, the remainder of the requirements must not be affected.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 39 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
14.7. Transfers
Providing there is no material change in the operation of the F acility, this B oard Order
may be transferred to a new owner or operation. The owner/operator must request the
transfer in writing and receive written approval from the Water Board’s Executive Officer.
14.8. Enforcement
The CWC provides for civil liability and criminal penalties for violations or threatened
violations of this board order including imposition of civil liability or referral to the
Attorney General.
14.9. Time Schedules
Time schedules for submission of required reports are listed in Table 13 .
Table 13 – Time Schedule Dates and Items
Item Schedule Date Task
Sampling and
Analysis Plan October 1, 2022 Pursuant to CWC, section 13267, the Discharger must submit a Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP), subject to
revision if site conditions change such as new monitoring
wells are installed, analytical methods change, or the Executive Officer authorizes a change in frequency. The reporting requirements for the SAP are specified in the
MRP.
Evaporation/
Oxidation
Ponds
Biosolids Removal December 1, 2022 Submit a work plan to characterize the depth and
chemistry of the residual biosolids in the unlined oxidation
ponds and to evaluate the best methods for removal of
the residual biosolids from the bottom of the unlined former evaporation / oxidation ponds. As part of this work plan, the Discharger may propose alternative uses for the oxidation ponds once the biosolids have been removed and propose a schedule for reuse implementation and
other approaches for closing the former ponds. After
acceptance of this plan by the Executive Officer, implement this plan and submit a project completion
report within 60 days of project completion .
Former
Nebeker
Ranch
Groundwater Monitoring Wells July 31, 2023 After obtaining access to the Former Nebeker property, submit a work plan indicating the Discharger ’s proposed
actions , such as future use of the wells by the Antelope
Valley Watermaster or final sampling and well destruction
by the due date. Include a schedule for any planned
work . Should the Discharger be unable to gain access to
these wells, provide a letter report to the Water Board explaining the actions taken to try to obtain access .
These requirements must be completed by the scheduled
date.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 40 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
15. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
15.1. Administrative
15.1.1. Availability
A copy of this Board Order must be kept and maintained by the Discharger and be
available at all times to operating personnel.
15.1.2. Operator Certificates
The Facility must be supervised by persons possessing a wastewater treatment plant
operator certificate of appropriate grade pursuant to CCR, title 23, section 3670 et seq.
15.2. Access
15.2.1. Water Board Staff
The Discharger must permit Water Board staff to:
• E nter upon premises in which an effluent source is located or in which any required
records are kept .
• C opy any records relating to the discharge or relating to compliance with this board
order to inspect monitoring equipment or records .
• S ample any discharge .
15.2.2. Public
General public access to the treatment and disposal fac ilities must be effectively
controlled and limited to authorized persons.
15.3. Operation and Maintenance
15.3.1. Optimal Operation
The Discharger must always properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed or used by the Discharger to achieve compliance with the WDRs. Proper operation and maintenance include adequate laboratory control, where appropriate, and appropriate quality
assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of backup or auxiliary
facilities or similar systems that are installed by the Discharger, when necessary, to
achieve compliance with the conditions of the WDRs.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 41 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
15.3.2. Waste Residue
15.3.2.1. General
The offsite disposal of waste residue, including sludge, must be in a manner that
complies with all local, state, and federal requirements.
15.3.2.2. Federal
The final use and disposal of biosolids must comply with the USEPA, Part 503, Biosolids Rule ( 40 CFR Part 503).
15.3.2.3. State
The final use and disposal of biosolids must comply with CCR, title 27, section 20220. This criteria states dewatered sewage sludge may be discharged at a California Class III landfill only under the following conditions, unless the waste must be managed as hazardous waste:
• T he landfill is equipped with a leachate collection and removal system (LCRS).
• T he sludge contains at least 20 percent solids (by weight) if primary sludge, or at
least 15 percent solids if secondary sludge or mixtures of primary and secondary sludges.
• A minimum solids -to-liquid ratio of 5:1 by weight must be maintained to ensure that
the co- disposal will not exceed the initial moisture- holding capacity of the
nonhazardous solid waste.
15.3.3. Storm Protection
All facilities used for collection, transport, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste must
be adequately protected against overflow, washout, inundation, structural damage or a significant reduction in efficiency resulting from a storm or flood having a recurrence interval of once in 100 years.
15.3.4. Authorized Discharge Sites
The only authorized discharge sites for tertiary treated wastewater are Piute Pond s, the
east agricultural site, Stage V Storage Ponds, and recycled water use sites as
determined through the M WRRs .
16. MONITORING AND REPORTING
Pursuant to CWC, section 13267(b), the Discharger must co mply with MRP No.
R6V-2022- 0023, as specified by the Executive Officer. The Executive Officer may
amend the MRP.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 42 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
16.1. Sampling and Analysis Plan
Pursuant to CWC, section 13267, the Discharger must submit a Sampling and Analysis
Plan (SAP) for Water Board staff’s review and acceptance, and revised and resubmitted
when conditions change (including, but not limited to any changes to sampling methods, locations, or analytical methods and procedures). The reporting requirements for the SAP are specified in MRP No. R6V -2022 -0023.
16.2. Cropping Report and Plan
All tertiary treated recycled water discharged to the EAS must be irrigated at appropriate
agronomic rates . The Cropping Plan must describe how best management irrigation
practices will be implem ented to minimize deep percolation while maintaining viable
crops for an upcoming year . Failure to irrigate at agronomic rates has the potential to
degrade underlying groundwater if percolate were to reach groundwater. An annual
Cropping Report will detail how the Discharger met agronomic rates for the previous
year. The Discharger must implement all practices and complete all actions contained in
the cropping report and plan documents submitted to the Water Board.
16.3. Volumetric Reporting
The Discharger must comply with volumetric reporting requirements of the Recycled Water Policy. The discharger must submit the volumetric reporting data to the State Water Board’s GeoTracker database by April 30 of each year. These requirements
include the following volumes:
• Monthly volume of wastewater collected and treated by the wastewater treatment plant.
• Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of treatment, including treated wastewater discharged.
• Monthly volume of recycled water distributed, and annual volume of treated
wastewater distributed for beneficial use in compliance with CCR, title 22 use categories.
16.4. Pretreatment Program
This Board Order requires an annual report describing the Discharger’s pretreatment
activities and compliance over the previous calendar year. The Discharger is required to implement a pretreatment program as required in 40 CFR 403.
16.5. Adverse Condition
Pursuant to CWC, section 13267(b), the Discharger must immediately notify the Water
Board by telephone whenever an adverse condition occurred as a result of this discharge; written confirmation must follow within two weeks. An adverse condition
includes, but is not limited to, spills of petroleum products or toxic chemicals, or damage to control facilities t hat could affect compliance.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 43 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
16.6. Material Change
Pursuant to CWC, section 13260(c), any proposed material change in the character of
the waste, manner or method of treatment or disposal, increase of discharge, or location
of discharge, must be reported to the Water Board at least 140 days in advance of
implementation of any such proposal. This must include, but not be limited to, all
significant soil disturbances.
16.7. Ownership
The Owners/Discharger of property subject to WDRs must be considered to have a
continuing responsibility for ensuring compliance with applicable WDRs in the operations or use of the owned property. Pursuant to CWC, section 13260(c), any
change in the ownership and/or operation of property subject to the WDRs must be
reported to the Water Boar d. Notification of applicable WDRs must be furnished in
writing to the new owners and/or operators and a copy of such notification must be sent
to the Water Board.
16.8. Corrected Information
If a Discharger becomes aware that any information submitted to the Wa ter Board is
incorrect, the Discharger must immediately notify the Water Board, in writing, and
correct that information.
16.9. Authorized Representative
Reports required by the WDRs, and other information requested by the Water Board,
must be signed by a duly authorized representative of the Discharger. Under CWC, section 13268, any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring reports, or falsifying any information provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in an amou nt of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day of
violation.
16.10. Request for Termination
If the Discharger becomes aware that their WDRs are no longer needed (because the project will not be built , or the discharge will cease) the Discharger must notify the
Water Board in writing and request that their WDRs be rescinded.

Los Angeles County Sanitation - 44 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster B oard Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No . 6B1 90107017
17. EXECUTIVE OFFICER SIGNATURE
I, Michael R. Plaziak , Executive Officer, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a full,
true, and correct copy of a board order adopted by the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board, Lahontan Region, on Ju ne 8, 2022.
_______________________________
MICHAEL R. PLAZIAK , PG
EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Attachments:
A. Lancaster W ater Reclamation Plant General Site Map
B. Lancaster W ater Reclamation Plant APN Parcel Map
C. Easter Agricultural Site APN Parcel Map
D. Lancaster W ater Reclamation Plant Flow Schematic
E. Eastern Agricultural Site M ap
F. Surface Water Monitoring and Groundwater Monitoring Wells Network
G. Definitions and Acronyms

Rosamond Dry Lake
Piute Ponds
Eastern Agricultural SiteAntelope Valley Freeway (CA-14)
Sierra Highway40th Street West50th Street West
90th Street East80th Street East70th Street East60th Street East50th Street East20th Street West
10th Street West
Division Street
Challenger Way
20th Street East
30th Street East
40th Street East
Lancaster Boulevard
30th Street WestLancaster Water
Reclamation Plant
Apollo
Park
Recycled Water
Storage Tank
Pipeline continues
south to City Park DrivePipeline continues
south to Avenue M6 512
11 3 12 7 8 49 10
1418 13
16 1517Service Layer Credits:
0 1 2 MilesOLWRP
Treatment
PondsStorage
Reservoirs
Division Street Corridor Recycled Water Project
Division Street Corridor Extension