FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (the Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 2,100
located in the town of Seeley. The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to
the design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant which is 0.25 MGD and is
located in the NE ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 11, T16S, R12 E, SBB&M18. The discharge
consists of disinfected equivalent to secondary treated wastewater.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
The current treatment system consists of flow equalization, grinding, oxidation pond
treatments , the oxidation pond treatment utilizes a Clemson aerated pond system
consisting of five ponds with surface aerators, sand filtration, and an ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection system. The collection system provides conveyance of raw wastewater
to the treatment facility. The wastewater collection system contains one lift station at
the headworks of the wastewater treatment plant. Following installation of the
Clemson process facilities in 2004, one of the original 2.4 -acre lagoons was
retrofitted to a primary oxidation pond an d used as an equalization basin prior to
entry into the Clemson system (comprised of ponds, or reaction basins). Wastewater
first enters the primary oxidation pond, currently reported to remove approximately
40 percent of the influent BOD 5 and T otal Suspen ded Solids (T SS). Flow from the
primary oxidation pond then enters Clemson Pond #1.
Each Clemson pond/reaction basin is equipped with a surface aerator. Removal and
stabilization of organic matter takes place in the reaction basins, Clemson Ponds #1
and #2 , through biological oxidation and reduction reactions that generate biomass.
The biomass is then separated by gravity sedimentation in the last 3 ponds, Ponds
#3, #4, and #5. The secondary effluent is then filtered by three pressurized granular
media filt ers and disinfected via UV light. The Facility maintains two UV disinfection
units, reserving one unit as a back -up unit. Following UV disinfection, the treated
effluent is discharged to the New River, via an unnamed tributary.
The Discharger dredge s Clem son Ponds #1 and #2 to remove sludge that ha s built
up on the pond floor. The sludge is placed into an empty oxidation pond for solar
drying.
18 San Bernardino Base & Meridian
SEELEY COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R7-2023 -0003
SEELEY COUNTY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0105023
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE TWastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to an
unnamed tributary to the New Ri ver, a water of the United States.
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted o n April 1, 2022,
that there are planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit term. These
changes consist of improvements to the facility receiv ing station as well as
construction of a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system to supplement existing
treatment facilities.
The septic receiving station waste will be discharged into 2 of 5 Clemson ponds where
it will receive treatment via floating mechanical aerators before it will be metered into
the common lift station. Was te from the lift station will be pumped to the oxidation pond
where it will receive some treatment via the 6 floating mechanical aerators. The
effluent from the oxidation pond will fill a new lift station where it is pumped to the MBR
treatment system. The MBR system effluent will be pumped to the UV disinfection
system and then discharged to