2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of a raw wastewater lift station, a headworks facility, two
parallel treatment trains, a disinfection system, and sludge drying beds .
Wastewater from the community is collected in the City of Coachella’s domestic
sewer collection system and conveyed to the plant headworks facility, where the
wastewater passes through a mechanical fine screen, and screenings are then
removed, collected an d disposed. The current headworks configuration includes a
single screen in the northern channel, a second channel for a future screen, and a
bypass channel with a manual bar rack. After passing through the mechanical
screen, raw wastewater flows into a pa ckaged grit chamber (i.e., a cyclone grit
removal type system). The wastewater is then split by an automated flow control
structure and delivered to the activated sludge treatment system and the oxidation
ditch treatment system .
The activated sludge treatment system capacity is 1.5 MGD and consists of two
process units operated in parallel. The activated sludge treatment system consists of
two contact stabilization tanks (CSTs). The CSTs process is characterized as an
activated sl udge process with a moderately short sludge age followed by sludge
digestion. The circular tanks are compartmented by internal walls to create
hydraulically separate tanks for the initial wastewater stabilization (contact tank),
clarification (clarifier), solids aeration (re -aeration tank), and sludge digestion
(digester). Air from centrifugal blowers is delivered to the activated sludge by air
28San Bernardino Base & Meridian
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2026 -0006
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104493
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEETdiffusers installed on the floor of the contact tank, re -aeration tank, and digester.
Sludge removed from the CSTs digester is conveyed via sludge wasting pumps
which pump the sludge to the drying beds on the south end of the plant. Clarified
effluent from the center clarifier flows through a Parshall flume for effluent metering
and then through a closed pipe to the chlorine contact basins (CCB) for disinfection .
The oxidation ditch (OD) treatment system capacity is 3.0 MGD. The OD process is
characterized as a modified extended aeration activated sludge process with a
relatively long sludge age. The tanks as constructed include a large aeration basin
and a relativ ely smaller anoxic zone for denitrification. The process consists of the
large elongated oval tanks, secondary clarifiers, and sludge pumping facilities. Raw
wastewater and return activated sludge (RAS) are delivered to the anoxic tank and
mixed with the m ixed liquor (ML) on the south end of the structure. From the anoxic
tank, the ML flows into the aeration basin where a large “vertical turbine” mechanical
surface aerator aerates and propels the mixed liquor around the tank (the tank is
sometimes described as a “racetrack” due to its shape and flow regime). A small
portion of the aeration basin flow is split off and returned to the anoxic zone to feed
the denitrification process while most of the flow overtops a series of weirs to feed
the secondary clarifi ers. The two circular clarifiers settle and collect sludge. The
settled sludge is pulled from the bottom of the clarifier and continuously pumped
back into the OD to maintain the mixed liquor concentration. As the solids
concentration builds in the tanks, a portion of the settled sludge is removed from the
bottom of the clarifier via sludge wasting pumps which pump the sludge to the drying
beds on the south end of the plant. Clarified effluent from the clarifier flows through a
closed pipe into the CCB for disinfection. Flow from the CCB passes over a weir and
then travels through a Parshall flume for effluent metering before being combined
with the CSTs flow for discharge to the storm channel.
The clarified effluent from the CSTs and OD processes is disinfected using an
automated chlorine delivery system consisting of bulk sodium hypochlorite storage
tanks, a vacuum regulator, and a submersible mixer/ejector. Hypochlorite delivery is
paced on ch lorine residual concentrations monitored just downstream of the dosing
point. The objective is to maintain a set point residual chlorine in the CCB. The
chlorinated effluent travels through the serpentine contact chamber and overtops a
weir where sodium bi sulfite is added to remove any remaining residual chlorine. The
bisulfite is automatically dosed based on a target residual chlorine concentration and
paced based on the effluent flow rate .
To maintain the proper solids, as the solids concentration builds in the CSTs, a
portion of the settled sludge is removed from the bottom of the clarifiers via sludge
wasting pumps, which pump the sludge to the lined/unlined drying beds on the south
end of the plant. Drying beds are lined with an impervious hard or soil -cement
surface. There are eight cement -lined beds and fourteen soil -cement drying beds at
the south side of the Facility. Solids are dried through a combination of evaporation
and draw -off or decant of supernatant, which is returned to the Facility’s headworks.
Weekly scheduled mixing is assumed as standard operation of lined beds to break
the top crust and achieve maximum drying. A tractor -mounted augur or disc is
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2026 -0006
COACHELLA SANITARY DISTRICT WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104493
F-7
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEETtypically used for this purpose. When sludge has adequately dried, the operation
staff use the front -end loading utility of the equipment to store the biosolids in a
stockpile area in the southwest corner of the site. When enough biosolids have
accumulated , staff schedules to have them removed from the site for disposal .
Treated w astewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Coachella Valley
Storm Water Channel .
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge that there are planned
improvements at the Facility during the upcoming permit term which include a
backup auto mechanical bar -screen at the headworks. Th is auto mechanical bar -
screen will serv e only as backup equipment.
3.