Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
8. Wastewater influent enters the plant headworks building via a 20 -inch s anitary sewer . The
wastewater flow is split into two channels, one for bypass (normally closed) and the other
with an automatic bar screen and compactor. The bar screen deposits the screenings into
a roll-off dumpster that is taken to the Combat Center Landfill for disposal regular ly.
Wastewater then flows through a 24 -inch Palmer Bowlus flume for flow measurement. A
flow meter display is housed outside the headworks building in a steel cabinet. The
headworks building has an active ventilation system that replaces the air in the room
several times an hour and pushes the air through a biological air filter for odor removal.
The odor filter consists of w ood chips that are kept moist with recycled water.
9. From the flow meter, wastewater is routed to Pond 1. Pond 1 is a 13-acre, 5-foot deep
pond , with a 2.5-acre front-end, 13-foot deep ferme ntation pit that has a designed
hydraulic residence time of over 3 days . Wastewa ter enters the pond at the end with the
fermentation pit. S olids settle out in the fermentation pit and the waste water continues to
flow through the rest of the pond. The fermentation pit allows for the accumulation and
storage of biosolids in an anaerobic environment. Anaerobic bacteria decompose and
stabilize the biosolids and release methane, hydrogen sulfide, and other volatile organ ics.
Digestion gases are broken down in the aerobic wate r layer at the top of the pond where
oxygen concentration is enhanced by mechanical aera tion.
10. Wastew ater from the fermenta tion pit is spread across the width of Pond 1 via a flow
distribution pipe and then flows longitudinally through the pond . Four mechanical aerators
provide oxygen to the top layer of the pond. The remainder of Pond 1 outside the
fermentation pit provides secondary biological treatment. The pond is designed to remove
approximatel y 75 percent of the influent Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) by rapid
growth of algae and concurrent production of oxygen, oxidation of organics, ammonia
removal, and heavy metals removal. The other ponds provide extended secondary
treatment and act as ef fluent polishing systems.
11. Effluent from Pond 1 is channeled to Pond A through a flow control structure that controls
the water level in Pond 1. The flow control structure has a permanent weir that controls
the water level in Pond 1 such that 2 feet of freeboard is maintained. Under normal
operating c onditions, effluent flows over the weir to Pond A. Slide gates located within this
structure allow operators to temporarily divert some or all of the flow to Pond B for storage.
In the event of excessively hi gh water levels at Ponds 1 and A, an overflow also channels
water to Pond B.
12. Pond A is approximately 5 feet deep with a surface area of approximately 20 acres. The
design detention time is approximately 18 days. Pond A (and Pond B when used)
provides onl y limited treatment; its primary purpose is set tlement of algae. When there is
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
3a need to store more water than Ponds 1, A, and B can accommodate, water can be
pumped to Ponds C and D. Ponds C and D are used as additional storage when
wastewater influent exceeds recycled water demand. The water from these ponds is
pumped back to Pond A for inclusion in the treatment process.
13. Effluent from Pond A is sent to the clarifier influent pump station wet well via a 20-inch
sewer line. The clarifier influent pumps then supply the water to three clarifiers. All three
clarifiers are connected a nd can be run individually or in parallel. Polyaluminum chloride
(PAC) is added as a coagulant at the clarifiers. The sludge from the clarifiers is withdrawn
using three slud ge pumps and sent back to the fermentation pit in Pond 1 for digestion and
treatment. The clarifier effluent is pumped by three filter influent pumps through the (non -
operational) Lamella filters into the filter effluent pump Station wet well.
14. Chlorine is generated on-site by a hypochlorite generation and injection system that
produc es the chlorine equivalent of 150 pounds per day of 0.8-percent sodium
hypochlorite (NaClO). The 0.8-percent NaClO is stored on-site in a 380-gallon
polyethylene storage tank. Chlorine is added to the water prior to entering the 1 -million -
gallon (MG) onsi te reservoir. The chlorine dosage can be manually set by the Operator .
Disinfected secondary -23 treated waste water from the reservoir is pumped to the golf
course ponds as needed via the secondary effluent pump station , and is stored in two
open ponds with a 10 million gallon (MG) total capacity , then used for golf course
irrigation . Attachment C, incorporated herein and made part of this Order by reference ,
illustrates a sch ematic flow diagram of the WWTF .
15. The WWTF ponds are designed with the following characteristics :
Fermentation
Pit Integrated
Pond System
(Pond 1) Oxidation
Pond A
Function Primary
Treatment Primary/Secondary
Treatment Secondary
Treatment
Surface Area
(acres) 2.5 13.1 19.8
Typical Depth (ft) 13 5 5
Volume (MG) 5.7 20.3 31.2
Detention Time
(days) 3.25 11.6 17.81
Interior Slope (H
ft : V ft) 3:1 3:1 3:1
Berm Materials Earthen Earthen/
Concrete Earthen/
Concrete
16. The WWTF is designed for the following p arameters:
Design Average Daily Flow 1.75 MGD
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
4Design Peak Daily Flow 3.0 MGD
Influent 20o C BOD 51275 mg/L2
Influent TSS3200 mg/L
17. The Discharger ’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMR ) from June 2011 through May 2016
characterize the WWTF influent as follows:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any Board
Order condition. Causes for modif ication include a change in land application plans, or
sludge use or disposal practices, and adoption of new regulations by the State or the
Colorado River Basin Water Board (including revisions to the Basin Plan), or Federal
government.
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
21I, Jose L. Angel , Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy
of an Order adopted by the California Regional Wate r Quality Control Board, Colorado River
Basin Region, on September 15, 2016 .
Original signed by
JOSE L. ANGE L, P.E.
Executive Officer
1 CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R7-2016 -0032
FOR
UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS , OWNER/OPERATOR
MAINSIDE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
Twentynine Palms – San Bernardino County
Location of Wastewa ter Treatment Facility: NW ¼ of Section 29, T2N, R9 E, SBB &M
Location of golf course: NW ¼ of Section 19, T2N, R9E, SBB &M
A. Monitoring
1. This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater system and