FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (the Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 600
individuals residing at the Mobile Home and RV Park located in the town of El Centro .
The perm itted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant which is 0. 15 MGD . The Facility is located in the NE ¼ of
Section 10, T16S, R14E, SBB&M18. The discharge from the Facility consists of
disinfected seconda ry treated wastewater .
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
The treatment plant is an extended aeration package plant. Wastewater is conveyed
from the mobile home and RV park by gravity into a series of two lift stations that
pump collected wastewater to the Facility for secondary treatment. Wastewater
pumped to the Facility passes through a manual bar rack, into a primary aeration
basin, followed by a re -aeration basin, then into a clarifier located in the center of the
package plant. Return activated sludge from the clarifier is pumped into the re -
aeration phase of the plant. Waste activated sludge from the clarifier is pumped to a
sludge digester section of the package plant. Clarifier wastewater effluent is treated
by gravel filtration. Th e gravel filter is backwashed once per day and the backwash
is recycled to the headworks. Periodically, gravel is added to replace a small amount
lost during the backwash and operation. Once or twice each year, staff completely
exchange the gravel. Followi ng the backwash, wastewater undergoes ultraviolet
(UV) disinfection. The UV system is inspected and cleaned twice per year .
Sludge from the digester is discharged to two on -site sludge drying beds. The
Discharger installed a berm around the sludge drying beds. Dried sludge is disposed
of at the CR&R Inc . landfill located in El Centro, California .
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to the Alder Drain, a water of
18San Bernardino Base & Meridian
COUNTRY LIFE MHRV P ASSET PARTNERS, L.P. ORDER R7-2023 -0041
COUNTRY LIFE MOBILE HOME AND R.V. PARK WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104264
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE Tthe United States. The Alder Drain carries the discharge from the Facility to the
Central Drain, which flows for approximately 10 miles before entering the Alamo
River at a point approximately 38 miles ups tream of the Salton Sea.
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on May 25,
2023 , that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit
term.
3.