The Discharger’s POTW serves approximately 480 square miles of central and
northern Orange County, California. Currently, the POTW consists of approximately

ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604 COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
 388 miles of trunk sewer systems and force mains, 15 offsite pump stations, two
wastewater treatment plants, and three outfalls. In addition to the domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater received from this service area, through interagency agreements, influent flows are contributed by the Santa Ana Watershed Project Authority (SAWPA) including Stringfellow Superfund Site (EPA ID #CAT080012826), Irvine Ranch Water District, and the Sanitation District of Los Angeles County. During dry weather conditions, the Discharger also accepts small volumes (average daily amount up to 10 MGD) of dry weather urban runoff from within the service area. During 2018-2019, the Discharger’s wastewater treatment plants received and processed influent volumes averaging 191 MGD.
Raw wastewater entering either Reclamation Plant No. 1 or Treatment Plant No. 2
passes through metering and diversion structures and continues to headworks facilities for preliminary treatment. Note that influent flow from SAWPA is tributary to Reclamation Plant No. 1 via the Santa Ana River Interceptor (SARI). Because the California Department of Health does not permit SARI flow for the Groundwater Replenishment System (GWRS) reclamation, all SARI flow is diverted to Treatment Plant No. 2 through the Interplant Interceptor for treatment and ocean discharge. Preliminary treatment includes grit and screenings removal. Caustic soda shock, ferrous chloride, calcium nitrate, magnesium hydroxide and polymer can be added to reduce corrosion and odor and provide enhanced primary treatment. The wastewater then receives primary treatment in primary sedimentation facilities. The primary effluent is routed to either trickling filters or activated sludge facilities for secondary treatment. Secondary treated trickling filter and activated sludge effluents from Reclamation Plant No. 1 are delivered to the Orange County Water District (OCWD) for further tertiary treatment and reclamation. The OC San discharges secondary treated effluent from Treatment Plant No. 2 through Discharge Point 001 (primary 120” ocean outfall) to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States, except under emergency circumstances. In 2023, when the Final Expansion of the GWRS is complete, Treatment Plant No. 2 effluents will also be reclaimed at the GWRS. SARI flow will be separated from other domestic wastewater at Plant No. 2, where it will be secondary treated before being discharged to the ocean. The use of continuous disinfection prior to discharge through Discharge Point No. 001 (120” outfall) has been ceased since May 2015. Effluent disinfection with chlorine bleach followed by de-chlorination with sodium bisulfite occurs at the other two discharge points 002 and 003. Dewatered biosolids are shipped offsite to land application, composting, thermal conversion, or landfill facilities. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment facilities. Attachment C provides flow schematics of the full secondary treatment facilities.
OCWD receives two streams of OC San secondary treated wastewater, one for the
Green Acres Project (GAP, out of service in winter) and the second one for the GWRS. Both GAP and GWRS are major regional wastewater reclamation projects owned and operated by OCWD and located adjacent to Reclamation Plant No. 1. Advanced treatment for the GWRS includes microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and advance oxidation (ultraviolet/peroxide). The Discharger provides approximately 100 % of secondary treated effluent from Plant No.1 to GWRS for advanced treatment and

ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604 COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
 reuse. In Fiscal Year 2018-19, the average effluent flow to OCWD was 117 MGD. The
GWRS Final Expansion has been under construction since November 2019, which supports the Discharger’s strategic goal of maximizing water recycling up to 175 MGD at both plants, and OCWD’s goal to produce up to 130 MGD of purified recycled water by 2023. GAP can divert up to 7.5 MGD of the Discharger’s secondary treated wastewater for tertiary treatment, disinfection, and reuse for landscaped irrigation and industrial uses. In Fiscal Year 2018-19 summer months, average flow to GAP was 4 MGD. The GAP and part of the GWRS generates waste streams (e.g., microfiltration backwash, sump waste, and lime waste) are recycled back into the OC San’s primary treatment facility, except for RO reject (or concentrate) which are returned to OC San, blended with other secondary treated waste streams and discharged via ocean outfalls.
In 2019, average daily total influent flow to both plants was 192 MGD, but because of
water recycling efforts, the average daily ocean discharge was 100 MGD. Based on 2017 OCSD Facilities Master Plan, the average daily influent flow projected for 2025 is 188~206 MGD during the dry weather season and 478~523 MGD during the peak wet weather season. Note that lower and upper bound flows are based on the current trend and a conservative approach, respectively. The projected 2025 average daily ocean discharges are 55~73 MGD for dry weather and 344~389 MGD for peak wet weather, of which RO concentrate flow is 23 MGD.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
GWRS Final Expansion Project
The GWRS is a regional water reclamation program that was initiated jointly by OC
San and OCWD and began operation in January 2008. The GWRS Initial Expansion was completed in 2015, which allowed OCWD to take up to 135 MGD of secondary effluent from Plant No. 1 to produce 100 MGD of GWRS product water. Currently, the Discharger sends approximately 100% of secondary effluent from Plant No. 1 to GWRS to provide a drought-proof water supply for Orange County. Also, it delivers up to 4 MGD of secondary effluent from Plant No. 1 to GAP during the summer months to provide recycled water for landscaped irrigation and industrial uses.
The layout of the OCWD facilities has been designed to provide GWRS with an
ultimate production capacity of 130 MGD. The GWRS ultimate production capacity of 130 MGD is referred to as the GWRS Final Expansion project. Based on the SP-173 Effluent Reuse Study for the evaluation of reclamation of Plant No. 2 effluent, the following projects are identified by the implementation plan for the GWRS Final Expansion and anticipated to be completed by 2023.
x Modify Plant 2 Headworks Facility to create a reclaimable and non-reclaimable
treatment train. Reclaimable flows will go through existing preliminary, primary, and secondary (trickling filter solids contact) treatment before being pumped to GWRS.
x Build a Plant 2 effluent pump station that will convey approximately 50-85 MGD
of secondary effluent from Plant No. 2 trickling filter solids contact process to the GWRS Facility.

ORANGE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R8-2021-0010
RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 1, TREATMENT PLANT NO. 2, NPDES NO. CA0110604 COLLECTION SYSTEM & OUTFALLS

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-14
 x Build a 6 MG equalization storage tank at Plant No. 2 to store secondary
effluent during peak day flows and be returned to the system during low flow periods to maintain a constant flow to the GWRS.
x Relocate the existing plant water pump station to a location more suitable for
receiving the trickling filter solids contact treatment processes. After the GWRS Final Expansion, the activated sludge treatment process will treat only SARI and side-stream flows.
x Convert the unused 66-inch gravity reinforced concrete pipeline into a pressure
pipeline using a trenchless pipe repair method, to convey the effluent pump station discharge.
This expansion would require a total flow from OC San plants of approximately 175
MGD to produce 130 MGD of indirect potable reuse water. The Final Expansion of the GWRS will enable the Discharger to recycle the majority of the wastewater generated in its service area and treated at its two wastewater treatment plants.
Organic Waste Co-Digestion Project
Construction and operation of an organic waste co-digestion facility is anticipated to
be completed in 2022. An organic waste receiving facility will be constructed to receive, store, and feed approximately 150 tons of pre-processed food waste slurry to the digester complex at Plant No. 2 (by Digester M) to generate additional digester gas per recommendations of the Biosolids Master Plan. This facility will be replaced with a permanent receiving station following completion of a proposed program to replace existing digesters at Plant No. 2. Food waste will be fed into OC San’s digesters, creating more gas and electricity, while producing a few extra truckloads of solids per week.
III.