A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Facility is a secondary treatment plant located at 399 Chandler Place, in the City
of San Bernardino. The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastes
generated within the Cities of San Bernardino, Highland and Loma Linda, Patton State
Hospital, unincorporated areas of San Bernardino County, and within the service area
of East Valley Water District. The Facility services a population of about 286,300.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility.
The Facility has a design capacity of 33 mgd1 for secondary treatment and
disinfection. The general treatment processes consists of screening and grit removal,
followed by primary clarification, biological oxidation with nitrification and
denitrification, secondary clarification, and chlorination. Attachment C provides a flow
schematic of the different treatment trains at the Facility.
Normally, effluent from the Facility is directed to the Colton/San Bernardino Regional
Tertiary Treatment and Water Reclamation Agency's Rapid Infiltration and Extraction
Facility for further treatment and disposal. Intermittently, the secondary treated and
disinfected wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Reach 5 of the Santa
Ana River at the confluence with East Twin Creek. These discharges occur only when
there is sufficient flow in the River to provide 20: 1 or more dilution. East Twin Creek
and the Santa Ana River are waters of the United States. During dry years, discharges
may occur only two to three times per year. However, during wetter periods, several
days of discharge may occur in a single month; for example, 102 million gallons of
treated wastewater was discharged over a 17-day period in April 2011.
Stormwater generated onsite from one area of the Facility drains to a collection box
with a pump installed to convey accumulated runoff to the treatment plant headworks.
Overflow from the collection box due to high intensity storm events will discharge into
a stormwater outfall onto East Twin Creek. Stormwater runoff from another area of
the Facility discharges into a storm drain that leads into the City's storm drainage
system and eventually into the Santa Ana River.
Sludge generated at this facility is anaerobically digested and dewatered using belt
presses and centrifuge. The dewatered sludge is hauled away by a contractor.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has reported its future plan for the proposed Clean Water Factory
Project. The Clean Water Project would reduce secondary effluent conveyed from the
Facility to the RIX Facility and instead would convey advanced treated recycled water
to direct use customers and existing recharge basins. The project would include
facility improvements, multiple alternative pipeline alignments for treated water
2 Trigger was erroneously exceeded. Trigger should be based on CTR criteria: Human Health for consumption of
Organisms Only (see Attachment I)
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-6
City of San Bernardino Municipal Water Department
Water Reclamation Facility Order No. RB-2017-0049
NPDES No. CA0105392
conveyance, conveyance to the RIX Facility, pump station and water storage
infrastructure. The Discharger is in the process of obtaining the appropriate
permits/clearances. The Discharger will need to submit a new report of waste
discharge for this proposed project and address material changes to the Facility,
discharge quality, locations and impacts to beneficial uses before the Regional Water
Board can consider revising these waste discharge requirements.
Ill.