2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system consists of coarse screening, extended aeration, settling, chlorination, and discharge to a holding pond. From the holding pond, wastewater is disposed via spray irrigation on a hillside west of the treatment facility. Sludge is stored
onsite in a polyethylene tank. F rom the polyethylene tank, sludge will either be dried on
site in a concrete- lined drying bed and the dried biosolids taken to an authorized
biosolids disposal facility or pumped from the polyethylene tank as sludge and hauled
off site for disposal by a se ptic pumping service. A summary of the system is included in
Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Treatment , Disposal Technologies , and Capacity
Design Flows
Design Influent Maximum Daily Flow 35,000 gallons per
day
Design Influent Average Flow 24,000 gallons per day
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment Preliminary/primary treatment is provided via coarse bar
screening at the headworks.
Treatment Secondary treatment is provided through extended
aeration and clarification processes.
Disinfection Disinfection is conducted through manual addition of
chlorine tablets to the clarification tanks when operators
are onsite (five days per week).
Effluent Storage 270,000 clay -lined stora ge basin.
Disposal Treated wastewater effluent is disposed of via spray
irrigation on a hillside west of the treatment facility. Spray irrigation occurs over an area of approximately three
acres.
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling Sludge stored in 5,000 gallon polyethylene tank. Sludge
will either be dried on concrete drying beds onsite and
then hauled off or be hauled off site via septic pumpers.
Wastewater Effluent
Design Goals1 TSS < 30 mg/L mg/L
BOD < 30 mg/L mg/L
1 These are design goals, and should be used to evaluate system performance, not
compliance. Compliance with Title 22 recycled water limits is not required as treated
wastewater is disposed subsurface and public contact is not occurring.






Attachment 1 – Site-specific Requirements and Limits October 18, 2022
3
 3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Rancho Colina Mutual Water Company must operate the facility in accordance with the
General Permit1 and this notice of applicability.2 Rancho Colina Mutual Water Company
must operate the system to comply with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

