The design flow of the treatment fac ility is 14 MGD and the new ocean outfall
has a design capacity of 10 MGD. The ocean outfall is sized such that together with stora ge/equalization facilities onsi te and the outfall to the
Estuary, the Facility will be able to accommodate peak flows during a 5-year, 24-hour storm event. The ocean outfall is an interim discharge point for tertiary-treated wastewater diverted from the Estuary until construction of the Advanced Water Purification Facility (A WPF) is complete. During the Phase
1A discharge reduction peri od to the Estuary, tertiary-treated wastewater will
be discharged through both, the Estuary and ocean outfall. Discharge to the Estuary is regulated under the Estuary Discharge Permit. During Phase 1A effluent discharge to the estuary will be reduced to an annual average flow of
1.9 MGD under closed berm conditions by the end of 2025. During Phase 1B, discharge will be reduced to 0.0 – 0.5 MGD to the Estuary and after the AWPF is operational, it is expected that any remaining tertiary-treated wastewater will be completely divert ed to the AWPF, and reverse osmosis
concentrate will be discharge d to the ocean outfall. The ocean outfall will
also be used for discharges when ther e are periods of heavier flows during
wet weather events, periods of low recycled water demand, or for maintenance and emergencies. The Ventura WRF wet-weather capacity is 23.4 MGD, 10 MGD of which can be discharged to the ocean and the rest of which can be discharged to the estuary during wet weather when the berm is open. The City has provided capacity during normal operations to contain a 5-year-24-hour storm using the ocean outfall and storage regardless of whether the berm is open or closed.
2.1.2. Following is a description of the treatment processes:
a. Primary Treatment: The primary treatment consists of screening, grit
removal, primary sedimentation and flow equalization. Ferrous chloride is injected into the primary sedimentation sludge to control hydrogen sulfide production and to aid in primary settling. Settled solids are removed from the primary clarifier for biosolids processing.
b. Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR): Biological treatment consists of bio-
augmentation at a biologically acti vated reaeration (BAR) tank, feeding
into two parallel anoxic tanks and four parallel aeration tanks for full nitrification and denitrification (NDN). Activa ted sludge and mixed liquor
recycling is utilized to balance load demands within the system.
c. Secondary and Tertiary Treatment: Mixed liquor is transferred to six
parallel rectangular secondary final sedimentation tanks for secondary settling. Return activated sludge is collected from the clarifiers and returned to the BAR process, while waste activated sludge is sent to the
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER NO. R4-2025-0272
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY-
 NPDES NO. CA0064726
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 12/18/2025 F-8biosolids treatment processes. The secondary treated effluent is sent to
the horizontal pressurized mi xed media filtration process.
d. Effluent Disinfection: The tertiary-treated effluent is disinfected using
gaseous chlorine and ammonia to create chloramines with contact time through the chlorine contact chambers. Most of the disinfected tertiary-treated effluent is dechlorinated using gaseous sulfur dioxide and conveyed to the ocean outfall pump station. Effluent that is not conveyed to the ocean outfall is conveyed through the effluent transfer stations to a series of ‘wildlife/water quality polishi ng’ ponds before discharging to the
Santa Clara River Estuary. A portion of the disinfected effluent, averaging
0.48 MGD annually, is distributed for beneficial reuse for landscape irrigation or dust control.
e. Biosolids Handling: The biosolids system consists of dissolved air
flotation thickening, anaerobic digesti on, and centrifuge dewatering. The
primary settled sludge is sent directly to anaerobic digesters for thickening. Waste activated sludge is removed from the secondary final
sedimentation tanks and thickened in the dissolved air flotation unit.
Thickened primary and secondary sludge is sent to three anaerobic
digesters operated in pa rallel for stabilizat ion to achieve Class B biosolids.
Utilizing the methane gas produced by anaerobic digestion, a co-
generation system fuels an engine that keeps the digester heated through a series of heat exchangers. Anae robically digested sludge is dewatered
through one of two centrifuges to produce a cake of 18 to 23 percent solids. Sludge cake is conveyed to tractor trailers and hauled off-site for disposal. Centrate waste streams flow back to the BAR tank for treatment.
Centrate flows can be equalized by entering the filtrate equalization tank prior to the BAR tank so that the BAR tank receives constant flow. All the Class B anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered and sent to an offsite contracted composting facility.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Plant upgrades are planned for the exis ting wastewater treatment plant in
addition to new facilities planned to protect the estuary ecology, develop
additional water supply sources to meet water demands for planned future growth, and enhance supply relia bility even in drought years.
1. Aeration, Filtration, and Chlorinat ion Process Replacement with Membrane
Bioreactor and Ultraviolet Light Disinfection (MBR/UV)
New BNR tanks, MBR, and UV will replace the secondary, tertiary, and
chlorination systems currently used at the Ventura WRF. The new equipment will replace aging, structurally deficient equipment; provide im proved nutrient
and pathogen removal; and provide a safer disinfection process. Construction
is expected to be completed by 2030.
2. The Discharger is also planning for c onstruction of an AWPF located near the
Ventura WRF on an undeveloped parcel on the corner of Harbor Boulevard and Olivas Park Drive. Tertiary-treated wastewater from the Ventura WRF will
be diverted to the AWPF for further treatment for indirect potable reuse. Construction of the AWPF is expected to be completed by the end of 2030.
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER NO. R4-2025-0272
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY-
 NPDES NO. CA0064726
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 12/18/2025 F-103.