A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
 The City of Watsonville owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system which provides sewerage service for a population of approximately 55,000 in an area that
includes the City of Watsonville, the Santa Cruz County Freedom Sanit ation District, the Santa
Cruz County Salsipuedes Sanitary District, and the Monterey County Pajaro Sanitation District. The collection system encompasses 21 square miles and includes more than 170 miles of sanitary
sewer lines which currently receive wast es discharged from residential, commercial, and 10
significant industrial facilities, including several food processors. Each member agency owns,
operates, and maintains a sanitary sewer system that conveys wastewater to the Discharger’s
force main for tra nsport to the facility. The Wastewater Treatment Facility's design, average dry
weather treatment capacity is 12 MGD, with a design peak wet weather treatment capacity of 36 MGD. Average daily influent flow ranges from 6.5 – 8.5 MGD.
 Treatment facilities con sist of screening, pre- aeration/ grit removal, primary sedimentation,
biological filtration (trickling filters), odor control, solids contact stabilizatio n (activated sludge), and
secondary clarification. Since approximately 1998, t he Facility has not disinfected its effluent prior
to ocean outfall discharge. The Discharger currently uses near -shore monitoring to demonstrate
compliance with bacteriological water quality objectives, i.e., the outfall is deep enough and far
enough away from near -shore areas to prevent exceedances of water quality objectives protective
of the beneficial uses shown in Table F -5 below. Disinfection would be necessary should the
Discharger fail to meet treatment standards and/or exceed effluent and/or receiving wate r
limitations. Of the four major dischargers into the Monterey Bay (Santa Cruz, Watsonville, Carmel,
and Monterey Regional), only Santa Cruz and Carmel disinfect their effluent s prior to outfall
discharge.
 Biosolids (sewage sludge or sol id wastes) are treated on the site using gravity thickening,
anaerobic digestion, drying beds, and belt filter press dewatering, and are land -applied at various
sites. Methane gas by -product from sludge digestion is used as a fuel for producing electrical
energy and hea t, which are then used at the facility .
WATSONVILLE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY ORDER NO. R3-2014- 0006
 NPDES NO. CA0048216

Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5

 The Watsonville Wastewater Treatment Facility typically accepts less than 10,000 gallons per
month of hauled brine wastes, which are segregated from wastewater treatment steps but are
blended with treated wastewater for discharge through the ocean outfall. The Discharger does not
anticipate an increase in the volume or change in the quality of hauled brine wastes accepted at
the treatment plant during the term of this Order.
The Facility also accepts landfill leach ate from the City of Watsonville Landfill and from Recology
Pacheco Pass (formerly Pacheco Pass Landfill). The Facility typically receives 80,000 to 100,000
gallons of leachate per calendar month. The leachate is hauled to the facility via trucks and is
discharged into the septic receiving station and from there is directed into the headworks. The
Pretreatment Program issues permits requiring semiannual self -monitoring and reporting for any
landfill leachate received from outside the City.
 Beginning i n 2008, the City of Watsonville and the Pajaro Valley Water Management Agency jointly
implement the Watsonville Area Recycling Project, which provides r eclaimed wastewater for
regional irrigation use and thereby reduce s dependence on over -drafted sources o f groundwater. A
Recycled Water Facility has been constructed at the Watsonville Wastewater Treatment Facility to
produce disinfected tertiary recycled water, as defined by California Department of Health Services
regulations at title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, sections 60301 - 60357 (Water
Recycling Criteria). Secondary treated wastewater is diverted from the existing wastewater
treatment facility to the Recycled Water Facility, which p rovides tertiary treatment by a
coagulation/flocculation /sedimentation process followed by cloth media filtration and ultraviolet
disinfection. The City of Watsonville (the Supplier /Producer ) provides 4,000 acre -feet of tertiary
treated wastewater to the Pajaro Valley Water Management Agency's (the Distributor) distribution
system during the local irrigation season.
 The Recycled Water Facility has a maximum sustained treatment capacity of 5,350 gallons per
minute (7.7 MGD), which is larger than the projected peak irrigation demand (7.5 MGD) to allow the facil ity to meet daily irrigation requirements with normal variations in the supply of secondary
effluent and the demand for reclaimed wastewater. Additional wastewater reclamation capacity
may be constructed to provide up to 11.6 MGD of reclaimed wastewater fo r regional irrigation use;
however, such an expansion is not planned to occur during the anticipated term of this Order. Operation of the Recycled Water Facility results in a significant decrease in the rate of discharge of
treated wastewater through the o cean outfall during the irrigation season. Recycled water
production and use are regulated by Master Reclamation Permit No. R3-2008- 0039.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
No planned changes were indicated in the application submitted by the Discharger.

WATSONVILLE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY ORDER NO. R3-2014- 0006
 NPDES NO. CA0048216

Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-12

 III.