WDR Standard Provisions -2- December 5, 2013
11. Petroleum products, grease, or scum shall not be visible on disposal ponds.

12. The discharger shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed or used by the discharger to achieve compliance with the conditions of this order.
Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate funding, adequate operator staff and training, and adequate laboratory and process controls, including appropriate quality assurance procedures. Proper operation and maintenance shall be described in an Operation and Maintenance Manual.

13. Electrical and mechanical equipment shall be maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and standards, such as NFPA 70B, Recommended Practice for Electrical Equipment Maintenance; NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace; ANSI/NETA MTS Standard for Maintenance: Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems, or procedures established by insurance companies or other industry resources.

14. If the discharger’s facilities are equipped with SCADA or other systems that implement wireless, remote operation, the discharger shall implement appropriate safeguards against unauthorized access to the wirel ess systems. Standards such
as NIST SP 800 -53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information
Systems, can provide guidance.

15. Transport and treatment facilities and permanent disposal ponds shall be adequately protected against overflow, flooding, or washout as the result of a 100- year
frequency flood or 100 -year, 24- hour storm.

16. All disposal areas shall be on land owned or leased and controlled by the
discharger.

17. Operation of collection, treatment, and disposal systems shall be in a manner that precludes public contact with wastewater.

18. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be disposed of in a manner consistent with Part 503 in Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations or Section 20005 et seq. of Title 27 of the California Code of
Regulations and as approved by the Executive Officer.

19. Wastewater treatment plants shall be supervised and operated by persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to the California Water Code
and Title 23 of t he California Code of Regulations.

20. The discharger shall allow Central Coast Water Board and staff , or an authorized
representative (including an authorized contractor acting as a representative of the Board), upon presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law, to :

WDR Standard Provisions -3- December 5, 2013
a. Enter upon premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or
conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this order.

b. Have access to and copy , at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of this order.

c. Inspect at reasonable times any facility, equipment (including monitoring and
control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this
order.

d. Photograph, sample, or monitor for the purpose of showing compliance with this order any substances or parameters at any location.

21. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this order may be terminated or modified for cause, including, but not limited to:

a. Violation of any term or condition co ntained in this order.

b. Obtaining this order by misrepresentation, or by failure to disclose fully all relevant facts.
 c. A change in any condition or endangerment to human health or environment
that requires a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
 d. A material change in character, location, or volume of the discharge.

22. The order does not authorize commission of any act causing injury to the property of another, does not convey any property rights of any sort, does not remove liability under federal, state, or local laws, and does not guarantee a capacity right.

23. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge
or sludge use or disposal in violation of this order that has a reasonable likelihood of adversely affecting human health or the environment.

24. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct adverse impacts on the environment resulting from noncompliance with this order.

25. Provisions of this order are severable. If any provision of the order is found invalid, the remainder of the order shall not be affected.

26. The discharger shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any information the Central Coast Water Board may request to determine compliance with this order or to determine whether cause exists for modifying or terminating this order. The discharger shall also furnish to the B oard upon request copies of records required to
be kept by this order.

WDR Standard Provisions -4- December 5, 2013
27. Safeguards shall be provided to ensure maximal compliance with all terms and
conditions of this order. Safeguards shall include preventative and contingency plans and may also include alternative power sources, stand- by generators,
retention capacity, operating procedures, or other precautions. Preventative and contingency plans for controlling and minimizing the effect of accidental discharges shall:

a. Identify possible situations that could cause "upset," “overflow," “bypass," or other noncompliance. (Loading and storage areas, power outage, waste treatment unit outage, and failure of process equipment, tanks, or pipes should be considered.)
b. Evaluate the effectiveness of present facil ities and procedures and describe
procedures and steps to minimize or correct any adverse environmental impact resulting from noncompliance with the order.

28. Physical facilities shall be designed and constructed according to accepted engineering practice a nd shall be capable of full compliance with this order when
properly operated and maintained. Proper operation and maintenance shall be described in an Operation and Maintenance Manual.

29. Facilities shall be accessible during the wet weather season.

30. Should additional data become available through monitoring or investigation that indicates compliance with this order is not adequately protecting groundwater, the Central Coast Water Board may review and revise this order as appropriate.

B. General Monit oring Requirements

1. Monitoring location, minimum sampling frequency, and sampling method for each parameter shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program of this order. Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures approved under 40 CF R
Part 136, entitled "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants," unless other test procedures have been specified in this order.

2. If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes in the permitted facility or activity that may result in noncompliance.

7. The discharger shall file a report of waste discharge or secure a waiver from the
Executive Officer at least 120 days before making any material change or proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.

8. An engineering report as specified by Section 603 23, Chapter 3, Title 22, of the
California Code of Regulations is required, and written approval of the Executive Officer must be received by the discharger and user, before reclaimed water is supplied for any uses and to any users other than those enumera ted in this order.

9. Within 120 days after the discharger discovers, or is notified by the Central Coast Water Board, that monthly average daily flow will or may reach design capacity of waste treatment and/or disposal facilities within four years, the disc harger shall file a
written report with the Central Coast Water Board. The report shall include:

a. The best estimate of when the monthly average daily dry weather a flow rate will equal or exceed design capacity.

b. A schedule for studies, design, and other s teps needed to provide additional
capacity for waste treatment and/or disposal facilities before the waste flow rate equals the capacity of present units.

WDR Standard Provisions -7- December 5, 2013
In addition to complying with paragraphs C.14 and C.15, the required technical
report shall be prepared with public participation and reviewed, approved, and jointly
submitted by all planning and building departments having jurisdiction in the area served by the waste collection, treatment, or disposal facilities.

10. The discharger shall submit reports required by this order by email to: centralcoast@waterboards.ca.gov .

11. Transfer of control or ownership of a waste discharge facility must be preceded by a notice to the Central Coast Water Board at least 30 days in advance of the proposed transfer date. The notice must include a written agreement between the existing discharger and proposed discharger containing specific date for transfer of responsibility, coverage, and liability between them. Whether an order may be transferred without modification and a public hearing is at the discretion of the Board. If order modification is necessary, transfer may be delayed 120 days after the
Central Coast Water Board’s receipt of a complete Report of Waste Discharge.

12. Except for data determined to be confidential under Section 13267(b) of the California Water Code, all reports prepared in accordance with this order shall the available for public inspection at the office of the Central Coast Water Board.

13. Should th e discharger discover that it failed to submit any relevant facts or that it
submitted incorrect information in a report, it shall promptly submit the missing or
incorrect information.

14. All reports shall be signed by one of the following:

a. For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president.

b. For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively.

c. For a public agency: by either a principal executive officer or ranking elected
official.

d. A "duly authorized representative" of one of the above.

15. Any person signing a report makes the following certification, whether it is expressed or implied:
 I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons dir ectly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware
WDR Standard Provisions -8- December 5, 2013
that there are significant penalties of submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.

16. By January 30 of each year, the discharger shall submit an annual report to the Central Coast Water Board. The report shall contain the following:

a. Both tabular and graphical summaries of the monitoring data obtained during the previous year. Duplicate copies of monthly reports are not necessary and do not fulfill requirements for summaries.

b. A discussion of the previous year’s compliance record (including any and all incidents of noncompliance) and corrective actions taken, or which may be
needed, to bring the discharger into full compliance.

c. An evaluation of wastewater flows with projected flow rate increases over time and the estimated date when flows will reach facility capacity.

d. A discussion o f operator certification and a list of current operating personnel
and their grades of certification.

e. The date of the facility’s Operation and Maintenance Manual (including contingency plans as described in Provision A.27), the date the manual was
last r eviewed, and whether the manual is complete and valid for the current
facility.

f. A discussion of the laboratories used by the discharger to monitor compliance with