removes particles larger than 0.25 inches.
16. The screened domestic wastewater enters the 12-acre-foot aerated treatment lagoon, where
the wastewater is treated (oxidized) to a secondary effluent quality.
17. The secondary treated effluent discharges to a filter that is designed to produce high-quality
filtered effluent, which flows by gravity into an upflow sand filter followed by a chlorine
contact disinfection chamber. The chlorine contact chamber produces an effluent with a
fecal coliform count of less than or equal to 2.2 most probable number per 100 milliliters
(MPN/ml).
18. The recycled water is pumped to the recycled water storage pond prior to use for agricultural
irrigation. Recycled water is pumped directly to the CRLF habitat, fill station, and spray field.
19. Off-specification (not meeting title 22 criteria) treated wastewater is recirculated back into
the 12-acre-foot aerated treatment lagoon.
Compliance History
20. WDR Order No. 95-27 requires a minimum freeboard of two feet in the receiving 12-acre-
foot aerated treatment lagoon. This requirement was regularly not met from 1999 through
2017.
2 CCR, title 23, division 3, chapter 9, Waste Discharge Reports and Requirements Article 1. Fees
Master Reclamation Requirements 4 May 17, 2019
Order No. R3-2019-0008
21. Wastewater runoff from the property was observed in May 2011 during a site inspection by
Central Coast Water Board staff. The Central Coast Water Board issued a notice of violation
to the Discharger for the illicit discharge. The Discharger informed the Central Coast Water
Board that the lack of required freeboard and the illicit offsite discharges were due to solids
buildup in the aerated treatment lagoon taking up almost 80 percent of the it’s capacity. The
Discharger properly removed the sludge in December 2017 and subsequently increased the
size of the aerated treatment lagoon.
Land Uses
22. The surrounding area is principally composed of grazing land and open green space adjacent
to the Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is approximately 1,100-feet north of the Facility. A
portion of the Coast Dairies State Park is to the west of the Facility running north and south
along State Highway 1.
Geographic Setting & Geology
23. The Facility is situated on the southwestern slope of the central Santa Cruz Mountains, which
is part of the Coast Ranges geomorphic province of California. This area is underlain by a
large, northwest-trending, elongated prism of granitic and metamorphic basement rocks that
are Cretaceous in age, or older. The granitic and metamorphic basement is overlain by marine
and non-marine sediments of the Pleistocene age (Qcl).
24. Agua Puera Creek flows approximately 700-feet north of the recycled water storage pond
where it crosses the San Gregorio Fault Zone. Steep escarpment slopes drop off toward the
north at the top of the drainage divide to Agua Puera Creek. Gentler slopes extend south and
west across the property. San Vicente Creek flows 4,000 feet south of the Facility.
Climate Change
25. The Discharger will adopt the County of Santa Cruz’s Climate Action Strategy. This
document presents a vulnerability assessment action plan to address sea level rise,
flooding, and extreme storm events. The Facility is not listed in the Santa Cruz Climate
Action Strategy as critical infrastructure to be affected by sea level rise or flooding in the
next 50-years.
26. FEMA Flood Hazard Area maps of the Facility location and collection system indicate flooding
is limited to an area around creeks and to the southern side of Highway 1. The flooding
around creeks does not impact the Facility and collection system and flooding on the
southside of Highway 1 is on the opposite side of the Facility.
27. The Facility is approximately 1,100-feet north of the Pacific Ocean coastline at an elevation
between 115-feet to 118-feet above mean sea level based on aerial surveys performed in the
most recent past two years. This elevation is confirmed by a roadway benchmark marker on
Highway 1 immediately west of the Facility that has a recorded elevation of 99.59-feet above
mean sea level.
Human Right to Water
28. California Water Code section 106.3, subdivision (a) states: It is a policy of the State of
California “that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and accessible
Master Reclamation Requirements 5 May 17, 2019
Order No. R3-2019-0008
water adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitation purposes.” The Order
incorporates the human right to water policy by requiring the discharger to comply with effluent
limits that will protect the municipal and domestic supply drinking water beneficial use.
Disadvantaged Community Status
29. The community of Davenport is not identified as a disadvantaged community on the
California Department of Water Resources DAC Mapping Tool3 as either a place, tract or
block group per 2016 census data. The census data encompassed a larger area than the
District’s service area. In order to be eligible for optimal funding options, the District had to
establish their service area’s (i.e., town of Davenport) Median Household Income (MHI).
That State Water Board approved Rural Community Assistance Corporation (RCAC), a
private, nonprofit organization, to perform the MHI survey. A threshold of 51% or more of a
community’s households must be classified as low-to-moderate income to qualify for funding
from the California Department of Housing and Community Development – Community
Development Block Program. The survey was conducted in 2014 and the results of the
survey show that 66.8% of the households within the District’s service area have a low-to-
moderate household income. Therefore, the District’s service area is identified as an
economically disadvantaged community.
MONITORING PROGRAM
30. Monitoring and Reporting Program Order No. R3-2019-0008 (MRP) (Attachment B) is a part
of this Order. The MRP requires routine water supply, influent, effluent, and Facility
monitoring to verify compliance and ensure protection of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

