Order No. R4-2015-0051
recycled water distribution system. Effluent not used for landscape irrigation andlor
land disposal via injection will be discharged at three percolation ponds (Figure 3 for
the layout of treatment devices).
-
a. Coarse Screen Coarse screen used in the wastewater treatment plant
removes solids, including typically wood, plastic materials, and rags.
-
b. Grit Removal Grit removal is used to remove as much sand and silt as
possible to prevent wear on pumps, accumulations in bioreactor and
membrane reactor, and clogging of sludge piping.
c. Fine Screen - Fine screen with 2 millimeter openings removes inert solids
before entering the bioreactor.
d. Flow Equalization - Flow equalization basin provides a relatively constant flow
rate to the subsequent treatment operations and processes.
-
e. Bioreactor The bacteria species Nitrosomonas and Nitrobacter in the
bioreactor provide nitrification. Nitrosomonas and Nitrobacter convert ammonia
to nitrite and nitrite to nitrate, respectively. Psudomonas bacteria convert nitrite
and nitrate to nitrogen.
-
Membrane Reactor Membrane reactor provides further carbonaceous
oxidation and suspended solids removal.
-
g. UV Disinfection UV radiation penetrates an organism's cell wall, and
destroyslretards the cell's ability to reproduce.
-
Chlorination Chlorination with sodium hypochlorite is used to minimize re-
growth and bio-fouling of bacteria, pathogens, and viruses in the pipelines
and injection wells.
Table 1 lists additional treatment devices used in Phases I and 11.
-
Table I Treatment Devices of the Civic Center Facility at Phases I and [I
Treatment DirnensionlSpec Volume per Treatment Device Retention time
Device (Gallons) (Hours)
Equalization 30 feet (Wide) 99,000 12.4 (Phase I)
Basin (AX) 40 feet (Length) 6.6 {Phase 11)
7 1 feet (Depth)
Bioreactor (2x1 20 feet (Wide) Pre-Anoxic Basin: 24,500 • 33.0 (Phase I)
50 f - e et (Length) Aeration Basin: 65,000 17.5 (Phase 11)
16 17.6 feet (Depth) De-Oxygenation Basin: 1 I,0 00
Post-Anoxic Basin: 21,100
Membrane Avg: 8.3g pdtsPll Tank volumes vary by Varies by
Reactor (2x1 Max: 9.7#pdisf manufacturer. manufacturer.
17,760 s membrane
minimum
Ultra Violet 8 tamps per reactor 0.1 Million per Day Varies by
Cty of Malibu
Ciwc Center Wastwakr Treatment Facility - Phases i 8 11 Pmjeds
Order No. R4-2015-0051
1 - I
Tabk I Treatment D w bo f the Civic Center FaoIlity at Phases I and II
Treatment DimensionrSpsc Volume p rT reatment Device Retention time
Delce (Gallons) /bum)
----
Reactor (3X) minimum manufacturer and
tamp inknsity and
validation.
[I],gp dlsf: Gallons per day per square foot.
[2]. sf: square foot
Sludge will be hauled to the Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County Joint Water
Poilution Control Plant, ur other similar permitted facilities.
D. Design Capacities of the Civic Center Facility are specified in Table 2.
Tabfa 2 --in CapacIQies of the CRri Center FdMya t Phases I and [I
Phase - Design Capacity [WD)
I 191,000
11 361,000
E. Nitrate-N Reduction
Nitrate-N loading from OWDSs is approximately 20 mgll. Effluent less than 8 mgJL
of nitrate-N will be discharged from the Civic Center Facijity after treatment. The
proposed Project will reduce by approximately 60% the existing nitrate4 loading to
the groundwater basin.
F. Treated Effluent Applications
The treated effluent of 191,000 GPD for Phase I and 36 1,OOQ GPD for P h w I I from
the Civic Center Facility is to be discharged thfough the following applications:
-
a. Landscape Irrigation Treated wastewater after disinfedbn will be recycled for
landscape irrigation.
b. Disposal via Groundwatw Injection - Treated wastewater after disinfection will
be injected to the Civic Center Gravels via three (3) injection wells W-I, W-2,
and W-3, located approximately 1,000 to 1,500 feet southeast to the Civic
Center Facility.
-
Disposal via Percolation The Winter Canyon Groundwater Basin beneath the
Civic Center Facility will ha used for percolation of the treated wastewater, if
the treated wastewater is not recycled w injected into the lower aquifer of the
Civic Center Gravels of the Malibu Valley Groundwater Basin. This method of
disposal will serve as a backup and will only be used if needed (see Finding
No. 13 for additional information).
Crty of Malibu File No. 1 1-087
Civic Center Wastewater Treatment Facility - Phases 1 8 11 Projects
Order No. R4-2025-0051
11. Wastewater Collection and Recycled Water Distribution Systems
-
A. Pipeline Transmission Figure 4 shows the extent and locations of the wastewater
collection and recycled water distribution systems. Pipelines are designed in
accordance with acceptable seismic safety standards so as to protect against the
possibility of rupture.
B. Wastewater and Recycled Water Pump Systems - Wastewater pump stations are
located along pipeline alignments, below ground and on public rights-of-way and/or
easements (Figure 4). Each wastewater pump station has odor controls. Two (2)
recycled water pump stations are located at the Civic Center Facility site.
12. lnjection Welts
Treated wastewater from the Civic Center Facility is to be disposed through three (3)
injection wells W-1, W-2, and W-3 located at the southern boundary of the Malibu Colony
Plaza and the northern side of Malibu Road (Figure 4). These wells are approximately 400
feet from each other and are in close proximity to the recycled water distribution system
pipeline. Each injection well is 14 inches in diameter and is connected via subsurface and
surface piping with the recycled water distribution line. Table 3 shows specifications of
three (3) injection wells.
I I
-
Table 3 Specifications of Injection Wells
1 I I
W-1, W-2, and W-3
1
-Depth below Ground Surface (Feet)
I I I
Screen Intervals below Ground Surface (Feet) 55 - 134
Aquifer Civic Center Gravels
Total Injection Rate "I (GPM~) 130 (Phase I) and 250 (Phase II)
[1]. The total daily injection rate at three injection wells is up to 130 GPM for Phase I and 250 GPM for
. . Phase II. he actual injection rate at any well location will vary, depending on the flow rate of
unused recycled water (which will be dependent on factors such as landscape irrigation demand,
wastewater generation, and water discharge at percolation ponds).
[2]. GPM: Gallons per minute.
13. Percolation Ponds
A. Three (3) percolation ponds (Figure 2) in the Winter Canyon area are to be
constructed at the site of the Civic Center Facility as a back-up method for disposal
of recycled water into the Winter Canyon groundwater basin. Water that cannot be
either reused through irrigation or disposed through injection wells will be pumped to
percolation ponds then percolate into Winter Canyon groundwater basin, typically
during periods when other facilities are unavailable because of an emergency or due
to scheduled maintenance. Disposal to the percolation ponds will be alternated from
pond to pond.
B. The upper Winter Canyon is a separate groundwater system from the Malibu Valley
Groundwater Basin underlying the majority of the Civic Center area, as determined
City of Malibu File No. 1 1-087
Civic Center Wastewater Treatment Facility - Phases I & If Projects
Order No R4-2015-0057
based on hydrogeological studies. It is estimated that the Winter Canyon
groundwater basin can provide a percolation capacity of up to 100,000G PD.
C. Each percolation pond is approximately 120 feet long and 3 to 5 feet deep. Two of
rectangular percolation ponds are approximately 20 feet wide and 2,700 square foot.
The third percolation pond is approximately an irregular polygon, 20 to 40 feet wide,
and 3,860 square foot. The percolation rate of soil beneath the percolation ponds is
1.5 feet per day.
14.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

