service charge for any buildings and lots that do not comply with this measure.
2.3. The treatment plant process consists of Aeration Ponds 1 and 2 which have
aerators and can be operated individually in parallel or together in series with a
detention time of five or more days in each aeration pond. The operator typically
runs the aeration ponds in series. After aeration, wastewater flows to Settling
Ponds 1, 2, and 3 which are operated in parallel with a detention time of one or
more days. One settling pond can alternatively be used for sludge storage when
not being used for settling operations. A summary of the system is included in
Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in
Attachment 2.
- 3 -
Attachment 1
Table 2. Wastewater Pond Treatment System, Disposal, and Capacity
Design Flows 100,000 gpd as a monthly average
n/a – headworks grinder is not installed
Headworks/Preliminary The County of San Luis Obispo plans to install a manual
Treatment bar screen and must include details about system
upgrades in their annual report.
Wastewater is treated via two aerated ponds (Aeration
Pond 1 and Aeration Pond 2) that are followed by three
Secondary Treatment settling ponds operated in parallel. Each aerated pond has
a volume of 600,000 gallons. Each settling pond has a
capacity of 80,000 gallons.
Disinfection includes a chlorine contact channel with a
design detention time of 60-minutes. The chlorination
system uses 20-25 gpd 12.5% sodium hypochlorite for
Disinfection
disinfection. The Multi-Functional Controller sends an
alarm if chlorine residual drops below 2 mg/L.
The chlorine contact channel has a 5,000-gallon capacity.
Effluent Pump Two pumps with 180,000 gpd capacity each.
Treated, disinfected secondary-23 effluent is discharged to
Effluent Storage and a blending pond that is owned and operated by the San
Disposal Luis Obispo Golf and Country Club for use in the golf
course irrigation system.
Biosolids/Sludge Solids accumulate at the bottom of the settling ponds and
Production and are removed 1 to 2 times per year depending on sludge
Handling judge measurements.
This wastewater system produces non-potable disinfected
secondary-23 recycled water for use on a restricted
Non-Potable, Title 22
acccess golf course. The Country Club Estates blends the
Recycled Water
recycled water supplied by the County of San Luis Obispo
with well water and uses it for irrigation.
- 4 -
Attachment 1
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
The County of San Luis Obispo must operate the facility in accordance with the General
Permit and this notice of applicability4. The facility is an aerated wastewater pond
treatment system. The County of San Luis Obispo must operate the system to comply
with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

