Attachment 1
the disposal pond area state the area is underlain with a sandy loam soil sand
clay profile to a depth of 10-feet below grade surface. Encountered groundwater
to between 7 to 14 feet below grade surface.
C. Pacific Ocean
The Pacific Ocean is approximately 2,000-feet west of the Cambria Community
Service District’s wastewater disposal ponds.
3. Wastewater System Operation Summary
Cambria Community Service District Wastewater Treatment Plant (Wastewater System)
is a Class III wastewater system. Cambria Community Service District must staff a
Grade III chief plant operator for proper operation of the Wastewater System. The
current chief plant operator is Antoni Artho, Grade III, License Number 43448.
The Wastewater System can treat 990,000 gpd to a secondary treatment level. In 2014,
the original activated sludge treatment unit was temporarily converted to a Modified
Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE) process with the installation of temporary piping and pumps to
internally return activated sludge (RAS) from the clarifiers, located after the aerobic
zone treatment. In 2025, the MLE went through extensive upgrades to make the system
components permanent. Upgrades included the installation of an equalization basin,
piping, SCADA system, and new variable frequency drive (VFD) controlled pumps,
mixers, and blowers. The upgrades made to the MLE will provide better control for
treatment processes, with the new influent equalization system balancing influent
fluctuating flows and tampering the maximum flow requirements for the downstream
aeration basin treatment processes. The MLE is in operation and is the wastewater
treatment method authorized by this notice of applicability. Cambria Community
Services District is required to submit a report of waste discharge for approval by
the Central Coast Water Board 120-days prior to any changes to the wastewater
system configuration authorized by this notice of applicability. The Wastewater
System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment capabilities shown in
Table 2.
Cambria Community Services District - 4 - December 8, 2025
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Attachment 1
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Raw wastewater is pumped to a screw screen (3/8” mesh)
that removes the rags and debris. It then flows to an
aerated grit chamber. New grit chamber blowers were
installed in 2025. A grit pump removes the grit from the grit
chamber and pumps it into a cyclone separator, which de-
Headworks/Preliminary waters the grit and deposits it into a dumpster for disposal
Treatment at a landfill. Following the grit chamber, the wastewater
flows into a new flow equalization basin that has a
maximum operating volume of 167,752 gallons. New VFD
blowers and pumps treat and pump wastewater from the
equalization basin into the distribution pipes.
Headworks capacity (gpd): 990,000
Wastewater enters the secondary treatment train and is
metered via VFD pumps from the equalization basin to the
splitter box. RAS from the secondary clarifiers is mixed
with wastewater in the splitter box, which then enters the
anoxic zone of the activated sludge treatment train. The
splitter box splits the flow equally between the two
activated sludge treatment trains.
Each activated sludge treatment train consists of a 96,954-
gallon anoxic zone separated by a baffle from a 355,497-
gallon aeration basin. The average wastewater contact
time in the anoxic zone is 9.6 hours. Following the anoxic
Secondary Treatment zone, wastewater moves past the baffle into the aeration
basin, where it has an average contact time of 35.3 hours.
Wastewater then flows from the aeration basin to the
secondary clarifiers. The sludge floc settles out in the
secondary clarifiers and is moved towards the RAS pits by
flights (a.k.a. scrapers, plows). The retention time of the
clarifiers is approximately 5.4 hours. Decanted clarified
water flows into one of three treated flow equalization
ponds (Pond 1, Pond 2, and Pond 3). Ponds 1 through 3
require a continuous minimum hydraulic head (static water
column) of 9-feet to avoid structural and liner damage due
to high groundwater levels in the area.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 990,000
Tertiary Treatment Not Applicable
Disinfection Not Applicable
Cambria Community Services District - 5 - December 8, 2025
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Attachment 1
Treated effluent is pumped to the land disposal site, which
is located 2.5 miles north of the treatment plant. The
treated effluent is pumped to one of three percolation
ponds, Pond A, Pond B, and Pond C. There is a Pond D,
but its use is not currently authorized due to an adjacent
downgradient private water supply well. The use of each
pond is on a rotational basis to ensure proper resting in
between use and to provide time for pond maintenance.
Ponds A, B, and C each have an approximate wetted area
of 3 acres and are no more than 5-feet in depth.
Wastewater Disposal
Percolation tests performed for the design of the ponds
Method
found rates of 1 to 948 inches per day. There will be some
reduction in pond water percolation rate due to soil
clogging. As a result, the pond design is based on
conservative percolation rates ranging from 5-10 inches
per day for each individual pond. Engineering documents
state 2 inches per day of percolation can process up to 0.5
million gallons per day (mgd). Therefore, the daily
percolation capacity for each disposal field is between 1.25
– 2.5 mgd.
Disposal capacity (mgd): 1.25 – 2.5 per disposal pond
Waste activated sludge is wasted into one of two sludge
thickening tanks each with a capacity of 98,337 gallons.
Thickened sludge is then sent to an aerobic digestor
before it is pumped to the solids handling system. The
solids handling system consists of a polymer mixing skid
where polymer is mixed with water, a floc tank where the
Biosolids/Sludge
polymer-water mixture is mixed with the sludge to create
Production and
flocs, and a screw press for de-watering the flocked
Handling
sludge. The de-watered sludge is fed into a 40-foot-long
dump trailer for hauling to the composting facility.
Annual production of biosolids: 1,056 tons
Biosolids are hauled away by Synagro West LLC to the
Liberty Composting Facility located at 12421 Holloway
Road, Lost Hills, California
A summary of historic and recent average effluent and groundwater constituent
concentrations are included in Tables 3 and 4, which were reported in Cambria
Community Service District’s annual monitoring reports. The Central Coast Water
Board used reported effluent and groundwater water quality data to establish the
effluent and groundwater limitations presented in section 4.
Cambria Community Services District - 6 - December 8, 2025
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Attachment 1
Table 3. Historic and 2024

===PLANNED CHANGES===

