facility that provides sewerage service to the community of Hayfork. The Hayfork
community currently supports a population of about 2,300 people. The Facility has a
septage dump station located near the headworks, and accepts sewage trucked from
within Trinity County.
C. Existing Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The existing Facility is designed to provide secondary treatment for an average dry
weather flow of 0.243 mgd, and peak wet weather flow at 0.729 mgd. Current average dry
weather flows at the facility are approximately 0.065 mgd. The existing Facility consists of
a collection system, an influent bar screen and headworks with influent flow meter, two
aerated primary treatment ponds, a secondary treatment pond, an effluent holding pond,
two wetland polishing ponds and four percolation ponds for final disposal. A chlorination
disinfection system was submitted as part of the final facility design, but was never
constructed. The existing Facility also includes 25 acres of vacant land owned by the
Discharger that is irrigated with undisinfected secondary effluent in violation of Order No.
98‐51. The Discharger notified Regional Water Board staff prior to irrigating the vacant
land. The existing Facility is inadequately designed to meet the standards for irrigating
treated effluent. For many years, the undisinfected secondary effluent has been used for
irrigation on this 25‐acre parcel, in violation of Order No. 98‐51. These violations, and the
need to upgrade the existing wastewater treatment facilities, resulted in Cease and Desist
Order No. 2012‐0106 being adopted by the Regional Water Board.
The Discharger is enrolled under State Water Board Order No. 2006‐0003‐DWQ,
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems.
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D‐2
Trinity County Waterworks District No. 1
Order No. R1‐2012‐0105
WDID No. 1A97069WNTR
D. New Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The Discharger plans to upgrade the Facility to include chlorine disinfection of
secondary treated effluent and summertime irrigation on a limited access golf course
adjacent to the Facility. The new chlorine disinfection facilities will include a
conventional chlorine contact basin to achieve the required contact time for
disinfection. The chlorine contact basin will receive effluent from the effluent holding
pond or directly from the wetland polishing ponds. Effluent from the chlorine contact
basin will be discharged to the reclaimed water irrigation system using the existing
pumping system. The chlorine disinfection system will operate on a demand basis.
Where there is a summertime irrigation demand, the pumps will activate and begin
drawing effluent from the outlet of the chlorine contact basin. Liquid sodium
hypochlorite will be used.
The disinfected wastewater will be reused on a 25‐acre adjacent golf course. All
reclaimed water and associated piping will remain on the Facility property. The golf
course site will be graded to prevent runoff. The disinfection facility will be designed to
treat 200 gallons per minute and will only be operated during the dry season (April 30th
to October 1st). The chlorine disinfection system has been designed to meet the
standards for disinfected secondary recycled water contained in Chapter 3, Division 4,
title 22 of the California Code of Regulations.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility, and Attachment B
provides a Facility flow schematic.
II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code). This Order also serves as Reclamation (Recycled Water) Requirements
pursuant to section 13523 of the Water Code.
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88‐63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D‐3
Trinity County Waterworks District No. 1
Order No. R1‐2012‐0105
WDID No. 1A97069WNTR
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Hayfork Valley Area of
the Trinity River Hydrologic Unit to be protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
3. Freshwater Replenishment to Surface Waters (FRSH)
The Facility is located immediately adjacent to Salt Creek, a tributary to Hayfork Creek
and to the Trinity River. The existing and potential beneficial uses of the Hayfork Valley
Hydrologic Subarea of the Trinity River Hydrologic Unit (waters potentially affected by
the proposed activity) that are to be protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Supply (AGR)
3. Industrial Service Supply (IND)
4. Process Water Supply (PRO)
5. Groundwater Recharge (GWR)
6. Hydropower Generation (POW)
7. Water Contact Recreation (REC‐1)
8. Non‐Contact Water Recreation (REC‐2)
9. Commercial and Sport Fishing (COMM)
10. Cold Freshwater Habitat (COLD)
11. Wildlife Habitat (WILD)
12. Rare, Threatened, or Endangered Species (RARE)
13. Migration of Aquatic Organisms (MIGR)
14. Spawning, Reproduction, and/or Development (SPWN)
15. Aquaculture (AQUA)
C. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements.
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D‐4
Trinity County Waterworks District No. 1
Order No. R1‐2012‐0105
WDID No. 1A97069WNTR
Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish such water quality
objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable
protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of
pollutants discharged is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

