WDID No. 1B72033OSON
irrigated with recycled water. The Discharger plans to construct wastewater treatment
and storage facilities to handle the increased population of 2,200 (phase 2), although
some facilities, such as aeration basins needed for phase 2 may be constructed, but
no aeration equipment would be installed until needed. The reclamation system will
be constructed to handle recycled water flows that result from the phase 1 population
increase and will be expanded when the population increases above the phase 1
population of 1,700.
The new Facility includes a new headworks including flow monitoring and automated
screening and grit removal; a flow equalization basin; secondary treatment facilities
consisting of an activated sludge system with biological nutrient removal (BNR); and
chlorine disinfection facilities utilizing sodium hypochlorite. The activated sludge units
consist of primary and secondary aeration basins, settling compartments and aerobic
digestion compartments. BNR will be accomplished using sequenced aeration in a
series of aeration tank compartments. The secondary treatment facility will be divided
into two trains to provide flexibility of loading efficiency and redundancy for
maintenance. The new secondary treatment process units are designed to treat an
average dry weather flow of 0.197 mgd and a sustained flow of 625 gallons per minute
(0.9 mgd) for a duration of a month. The influent pumps will be set at 0.9 mgd to
ensure that the peak treatment capacity is never exceeded and excess influent flows
will be directed to the flow equalization basin which will allow the facility to handle a
peak wet weather flow of 3.036 mgd. This is the flow that is identified as the peak wet
weather flow in Table 3 and Discharge Prohibition III.J of the Order.
The new Facility also includes sludge handling and storage facilities that will consist of
a belt filter press housed in an enclosed building and 6 bays of redundant dewatering
facilities and storage. All of the storage bays will be constructed with concrete floors.
Two of the storage bays will be outfitted with synthetic filter media to act as sludge
drying beds for redundancy in operations. All bays slope toward a trench drain that
will route flows back to the headworks for treatment. The Discharger plans to land
apply treated, dewatered sludge on-site and plans to enroll under the statewide
biosolids general permit and will develop a sludge management plan consistent with
that permit.
The new Facility will also include expanded storage ponds with a capacity of 70 million
gallons and disposal of disinfected secondary treated effluent on 84 acres of
agricultural spray fields owned by the Discharger and used by a local rancher to grow
grass crop to be harvested and used as feed for dairy cows. Initially, the Discharger
plans to develop 73 acres of agricultural spray field. An additional 11 acres of
agricultural spray field will be added when expansion of the training facility campus
requires the additional spray fields.
The new Facility will also include tertiary wastewater treatment facilities that will
consist of coagulation, filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection for reuse on 25
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-3
U.S. Coast Guard WWTF
Order No. R1-2012-0033
WDID No. 1B72033OSON
acres of urban landscape areas on the TRACEN property. The tertiary facility will be
designed to treat 300 gallons per minute and will typically be operated 8 to 10 hours
per day during the dry season to produce the volume of tertiary recycled water needed
to meet the urban irrigation demand. The Facility includes a 380,000 gallon holding
tank for temporary storage of tertiary recycled water. This volume corresponds to two
days of maximum landscape irrigation demand.
The new Facility has been designed to meet the standards for disinfected secondary
and disinfected tertiary recycled water contained in Chapter 3, Division 4, title 22 of
the California Code of Regulations.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility, and Attachment B
provides a Facility flow schematic.
II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water
Code). This Order also serves as Reclamation (Recycled Water) Requirements
pursuant to section 13523 of the Water Code.
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses to
be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The Basin
Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution
No. 88-63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should
be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Estero Americano Area
of the Bodega Hydrologic Unit to be protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
3. Freshwater Replenishment to Surface Waters (FRSH)
The Facility is located immediately adjacent to Stemple Creek, a tributary to the Estero
Americano. The existing and potential beneficial uses of the Estero Americano
Hydrologic Area of the Bodega Hydrologic Unit (waters potentially affected by the
proposed activity) that are to be protected are as follows:
Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-4
U.S. Coast Guard WWTF
Order No. R1-2012-0033
WDID No. 1B72033OSON
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Supply (AGR)
3. Industrial Service Supply (IND)
4. Process Water Supply (PRO)
5. Groundwater Recharge (GWR)
6. Navigation (NAV)
7. Water Contact Recreation (REC-1)
8. Non-Contact Water Recreation (REC-2)
9. Commercial and Sport Fishing (COMM)
10. Cold Freshwater Habitat (COLD)
11. Wildlife Habitat (WILD)
12. Rare, Threatened, or Endangered Species (RARE)
13. Marine Habitat (MAR)
14. Migration of Aquatic Organisms (MIGR)
15. Spawning, Reproduction, and/or Development (SPWN)
16. Shellfish Harvesting (SHELL)
17. Estuarine Habitat (EST)
18. Aquaculture (AQUA)
C. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements.
Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish such water
quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the
reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The
control of pollutants discharged is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

