Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment
Flow Equalization, Gravity Thickeners,
Bar Screens,
Filtration, Anaerobic Digestion
Aerated Grit
Primary Basins Activated Sludge Chlorination, Belt Press,
Chamber,
Secondary Clarifiers Dechlorination, Digester Gas
Flow
UV Disinfection (not Utilization Facility
Equalization
used) Sludge Drying Beds
Attachment F-Fact Sheet F-4
City Of Rialto Order No. RS-2014-0010
Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA01 05295
The combined total treatment design capacity of Plants 1 through 5 is 11.7 mgd.
Currently, approximately 6.72 mgd is being treated at the Facility.
Solids wasted from each plant's secondary treatment processes are pumped to a
gravity belt thickener to reduce the water content prior to being pumped to an
anaerobic digester for stabilization. While there is no dedicated primary sludge
thickener at the plant, solids concentration of primary sludge is maximized through
careful monitoring and adjustment of primary sludge pumping controls.
Solids are stabilized by the anaerobic digestion process and then dewatered by a
belt press. To reduce water content in the stabilized sludge, a polymer is injected
into the sludge as it is being pumped to the belt press. Typically, sludge pumped to
the belt press is approximately 2 to 3 percent solids. Sludge leaving the belt press is
approximately 14 to 16 percent solids. The filtrate removed from the de-watered
sludge is pumped back to the liquid process flow streams for further treatment.
The plant utilizes a concrete-lined sludge drying bed where dewatered solids from
the belt press may be spread by tractor for further solar drying.
Generally, during rainy seasons, de-watered solids from the belt press are placed
directly into trucks and taken to a biosolids contractor where the solids are blended
with greenwaste and composted in accordance with biosolids regulations. During the
rest of the year, the drying bed is utilized prior to removal by the composting
company.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic for this Facility.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

