The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system
comprised of a gravity collection system, and oxidation/percolation/evaporation
ponds. The Facility has five oxidation ponds for treatment and three
percolation/evaporation ponds for effluent disposal.
The collection system consists of a conventional gravity collection system, which
transports wastewater to the pond system for treatment and disposal. There is no
screening and no removal of solids prior to wastewater entering the oxidation
ponds.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility.
3
The City of Etna WWTF
Order No. R1‐2015‐0026
WDID No. 1A82104OSIS
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
for discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water
Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan),
and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial
uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative)
reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges,
the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The
Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the
basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State
Water Board) Resolution No. 88‐63, which established state policy that all waters,
with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for
municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Scott Valley
Hydrologic Subarea of the Scott River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR),
and freshwater replenishment (FRSH).
The beneficial uses applicable to Johnson Creek and the Scott River within the
Scott Valley Hydrologic Subarea of the Scott River Hydrologic Area to be protected
are as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply
(AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater
recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment (FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower
generation (POW), water contact recreation (REC‐1), non‐contact water recreation
(REC‐2), commercial and sport fishing (COMM), cold freshwater habitat (COLD),
wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration
of aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development
(SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives,
impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation
requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to
“establish such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its
judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the
prevention of nuisance […].” The control of pollutants discharged is established
through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

