2. Wastewater—Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leach fields if the
following conditions are met:
a. the applicable Regional Water Board has issued WDRs, reclamation
requirements, or waived such issuance;
b. the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control
plan; and
c. the wastewater does not need to be managed according to, California
Code of Regulations, title 22, division 4.5, chapter 11, as a hazardous
waste. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 20090(b).)
3. Underground Injection—Discharges of waste to wells by injection pursuant to
the Underground Injection Control Program established by the USEPA under
the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 US Code section 300(h), see Code of Federal
Regulations title 40, Parts 144 to 146. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 20090(c).)
4. Soil Amendments—Use of nonhazardous decomposable waste as a soil
amendment pursuant to applicable best management practices, provided that
Regional Water Boards may issue waste discharge or reclamation
requirements for such use. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 20090(f).)
5. Fully Enclosed Units—Waste treatment in fully enclosed facilities, such as
tanks, or in concrete lined facilities of limited areal extent, such as oil water
separators designed, constructed, and operated according to American
Petroleum Institute specifications. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 20090(i).)
5
The Tennant Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1‐2016‐0019
WDID No. 1A88031RSIS
G. Antidegradation Policy. State Water Board Resolution 68‐16, the Statement of
Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters of California (hereafter the
Antidegradation Policy) requires the disposal of waste be regulated to achieve the
highest water quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the
state. The quality of some waters is higher than established by adopted policies
and higher quality water shall be maintained to the maximum extent possible
consistent with the Antidegradation Policy. The Antidegradation Policy requires
the following:
1. Higher quality water will be maintained until it has been demonstrated to the
state that any change will be consistent with the maximum benefit to the
people of the state, will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated
beneficial use of the water, and will not result in water quality less than
prescribed in the policies.
2. Any activity that produces a waste and discharges to existing high quality
waters will be required to meet Waste Discharge Requirements that will
result in the best practicable treatment or control of the discharge necessary
to assure pollution or nuisance will not occur, and the highest water quality
consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state will be
maintained.
This project consists of the operation or minor alteration of an existing facility
which involves minimum change in use beyond that previously existing.
Attachment B of this Order requires routine

===PLANNED CHANGES===

