attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The Facility is located on two 640-acre parcels. The conservation camp buildings, grease
interceptor, septic tanks, and one lift station are located along the northern boundary of
parcel APN No. 021-030-10. The lower leachfield, former wastewater pond, and second lift
station are located in the southwest corner of parcel APN No. 021-030-04 and the upper
leachfield is located near the western boundary.
Wastewater originating from Facility restrooms, showers, kitchen, and laundry facilities is
treated and disposed of via the on-site domestic wastewater treatment system. The
current wastewater system was installed in 1998 as required by Cease and Desist Order
(CDO) No. 98-38 to correct violations of Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) Order No.
97-52. CDO No. 98-38 was issued on March 26, 1998, due to on-going instances of
surfacing effluent from the lower leachfield.
WDR Order No. 97-52 authorized the discharge of treated wastewater from the
percolation/evaporation pond and the lower leachfield that received pond overflow.
Following installation of the current wastewater system in 1998, the wastewater pond was
periodically used in emergency pump failure situations when wastewater was sent by
gravity to the pond rather than pumped uphill to the upper leachfield. In 2016, Cal Fire
removed the wastewater pond by draining the water to the lower leachfield and backfilling
the pond with soil. Removal of the pond caused the lower leachfield to disconnect from the
existing wastewater collection system. The lower leachfield remains in place and Cal Fire is
considering possible future use of it during emergency pump failure situations. On August
26, 2016, Regional Water Board staff directed Cal Fire to submit a report of waste
discharge for review prior to approval of this proposed emergency use.
The current wastewater system serving the Facility consists of a gravity collection system,
grease interceptor, bar screen, two 10,000-gallon septic tanks, two lift stations, a 1,000-
gallon septic tank, and a subsurface disposal field.
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 3 - March 13, 2017
Discharge Description
The Facility wastewater treatment system is designed for an average daily flow of 14,200
gallons per day (gpd). As described in the ROWD, the projected untreated and treated
domestic wastewater quality from the Facility is consistent with the characterization of
wastewater in the General Order.
The overall plan layout of the wastewater collection system is included as attachments to a
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection letter dated April 16, 1998, and a Cal Fire email
dated January 10, 2016. The letter, email and attachments are part of this NOA by
rPerfiemraernyc eT.r eatment and Collection System
Primary waste treatment and collection will be provided using a kitchen grease
interceptor, septic tanks, gravity collection system and lift stations, as described below.
A 1,500-gallon grease interceptor serves the kitchen of the mess hall building. The
Discharger pumps the interceptor twice a year. Wastewater passing through the
interceptor is combined with other Facility wastewater and directed to a bar screen for
removal of large solids and debris. After passing through the bar screen the wastewater is
directed to one of two 10,000-gallon septic tanks for primary treatment. The Discharger
pumps solids from the two septic tanks annually.
Following primary treatment in the septic tanks wastewater enters into an adjacent lift
station (Lift Station 1). Wastewater is then pumped from Lift Station 1 across a bridge and
uphill to a second lift station (Lift Station 2). Lift Station 2 is located adjacent to the
footprint of the former wastewater pond. Wastewater is pumped from Lift Station 2 uphill
to a septic tank and the upper leachfield.
Both lift stations are equipped with duplex pumps and float switches that are controlled
and monitored by an adjacent pump control panel with visual and audible alarms. A flow
mWeatsetre wata Lteifrt DSitsacthioanrg 1e mSyesatseumr es the volume of wastewater sent to the upper leachfield.
Following primary treatment, wastewater will be disposed of at the upper leachfield,
located in the area of a former orchard. Wastewater pumped to the upper leachfield septic
tank by Lift Station 2 is directed via a distribution box to one of two branches of the upper
leachfield. The lineal length of the upper leachfield is approximately 5,300 feet. The
northern most branch consists of 2,600 feet of leach line and 200 feet of infiltrator
chambers. The southern branch consists of 2,300 feet of leach line and 200 feet of
infiltrator chambers. The leachfield is designed to dispose of 14,200 gpd of wastewater
with an application rate of 0.6 gallons/square foot/day. The Discharger identified a 100
percent reserve disposal field area in the same area, directly adjacent to the upper
leachfield. The disposal field, reserve area, and treatment system components meet the
setback requirements in the General Order.
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 4 - March 13, 2017
General WDR Order Coverage
Commencing on the date of this NOA, waste discharges from the Facility’s domestic
wastewater treatment system are regulated under the General Order (Order WQ 2014-
021. 5C3a-DliWfoQrn).i a Environmental Quality Act
The Parlin Fork Conservation Camp domestic wastewater discharge covered under the
General Order is exempt pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301
(ongoing or existing projects). The Facility is an existing wastewater treatment facility
with no expansion of use or wastewater flow beyond existing uses and beyond existing
design capacity. The Facility is located in a rural area where other facilities and
3d.i scShitaer-gSepres coiff itch eR esaqmuier etympee natrse annodt eExfpfleucetendt Lovimeri ttaimtieo.n s
A. General
The General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
systems covered under the General Order, and specifications that apply only to specific
types of treatment and/or disposal systems. Table 1 of this NOA provides a summary of
applicable discharge requirements for the subject wastewater system. Discharge of wastes
other than those described in the ROWD is prohibited.
Wastewater system managers and operators must be familiar with the applicable
requirements contained in the General Order, this NOA, and MRP R1-2017-0009.
B. Reports to be submitted to the Regional Water Board
1. The following technical reports, which form the main components of a
comprehensive Operation, Maintenance, and Monitoring program, shall be
submitted as described below:
a) By June 12, 2017, the Discharger shall submit a Spill Prevention and Emergency
Response Plan (Response Plan) consistent with the requirements of General
Order Provision E.1.a. The Response Plan shall, at a minimum, address the
following:
1) Operation and Control of Wastewater Treatment
2) Sludge Handling
3) Collection System Maintenance
4) Emergency Response
5) Notification Procedures
b) By June 12, 2017, the Discharger shall submit a Sampling and Analysis Plan
consistent with the requirements of General Order Provision E.1.b.
2. The above reports shall be acceptable to the Regional Water Board Executive
Officer.
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 5 - March 13, 2017
C. Septic Tanks
The domestic wastewater system serving the Facility includes septic tanks that provide
primary treatment of the wastewater. Septic tanks require proper operation, maintenance,
and monitoring in order to provide adequate and reliable wastewater service. This
includes periodic inspection and removal, as needed, of accumulated solids. Requirements
for septic tanks are included in General Order section B.2, Septic Systems, and in the
enclosed MRP, at section titled “Septic Tank Monitoring and Maintenance.” Qualified
service providers shall conduct operational maintenance and monitoring work on the
septic systems with appropriate oversight by the Discharger. The Discharger is responsible
for ensuring proper operation, maintenance, and monitoring of all septic tanks.
D. Subsurface Disposal System Requirements
The wastewater system includes dispersal of treated effluent to subsurface soil via a 5,300
lineal foot leachfield disposal system. The Discharger is required to maintain the capacity
of the disposal system to handle 100 percent of the design wastewater flows and to
maintain a reserve disposal area with an additional 100-percent capacity. The reserve area
is for future use, in case the existing disposal system is found to be inadequate. The reserve
area is required to remain available until needed. The Discharger has designated a reserve
d4i. spMosoanli atorerain agd ajancden Rt etpo othrtei nexgi sPtrinogg ruapmpe r leachfield.
The Discharger shall comply with enclosed MRP R1-2017-0009, for the Parlin Fork
Conservation Camp Wastewater Treatment System, which is part of this NOA by reference.
The MRP includes requirements for the monitoring and maintenance of the septic tanks, lift
stations and leachfield.
The Discharger shall submit quarterly self-monitoring reports and an annual summary
report to the Regional Water Board in accordance with the Table 6 of the MRP. The
D5.i scEhnafrogrecre smhaelnl tc onsult the MRP for all specific requirements.
The Discharger shall manage and discharge the waste subject to the terms and conditions
of the General Order and this NOA and shall maintain exclusive control over the discharges.
As such, the Discharger is responsible for compliance with the General Order and this NOA.
Failure to comply with the requirements in the General Order, this NOA, or the MRP could
result in an enforcement action as authorized by provisions of the California Water Code.
California Water Code section 13267 states, in part:
“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may
require that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having
discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any
citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged,
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 6 - March 13, 2017
discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to
discharge, waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters within its
region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports
which the regional board requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall
bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the report and the benefits to be obtained
from the reports. In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the
person with a written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall
identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to provide the reports.”
California Water Code section 13268 states, in part:
“(a) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports
as required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a
statement of compliance as required by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying
any information provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in
accordance with subdivision (b).
(b)(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a regional board in accordance
with article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of chapter 5 for a violation of
subdivision (a) in an amount which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for
each day in which the violation occurs.”
The reports required in item 3.B are necessary to ensure that the Discharger complies with
the NOA and General Order. The burden, including costs, of these reports bears a
reasonable relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the
reports. Pursuant to California Water Code section 13267, the Discharger shall submit the
reports described herein.
Please review this NOA carefully to ensure that it completely and accurately reflects the
discharge. If the discharge violates the terms or conditions listed, the Regional Water
Board may take enforcement action, including assessment of administrative civil liability.
Prior to allowing changes to the wastewater strength or generation rate, or if the method of
waste discharge changes from that described in the ROWD, you must contact the Regional
W6. atAenr nBuoaalr dF etoe sd etermine if submittal of a ROWD is required.
The waste discharge authorized by this NOA is subject to payment of annual fees under the
State Water Board’s annual fee schedule for regulated discharges. Annual fees are based in
part on ratings for threat to water quality and complexity. The subject Facility is currently
rated 3-C. The annual fee for this rating in accordance with the current (FY 2016-2017)
Fee Schedule is $2,088; however, based on the flow rate, the discharge qualifies for the 50-
percent fee discount. The annual fee for the discharge is currently $1,044.
The Fee Schedule is subject to change, and the fee for this Facility may change accordingly.
Annual fees are due and payable as invoiced annually to the Discharger by the State Water
Board.
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 7 - March 13, 2017
7. Regional Water Board Contact Information
Regulation of the subject domestic wastewater treatment system under the General Order
is managed by the Regional Water Board Groundwater Permitting Unit. The case is
currently assigned to Regional Water Board staff environmental scientist Rachel Prat.
Questions or concerns about this NOA, the attached MRP, or related matters should be
directed to Rachel Prat at (707) 576-2542 or Rachel.Prat@waterboards.ca.gov .
Sincerely,
Matthias St. John
Executive Officer
170313_RSP_dp_ParlinFork_WWTF_NOA
Attachments:
Attachment A, Site Location Map
Attachment B, Project Area Map
Attachment C, Wastewater Treatment System Schematic
Enclosures:
Table 1, Summary of Applicable Discharge Requirements
Water Quality Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
Monitoring and Reporting Program R1-2017-0009
cc Chris Almind, Cal Fire, Parlin Fork Conservation Camp, Fort Bragg,
Chris.Almind@fire.ca.gov
Rob Daugherty, Cal Fire, Parlin Fork Conservation Camp, Fort Bragg,
Rob.Daugherty@fire.ca.gov
Valerie Aura, Mendocino County Land Use Program, Fort Bragg,
Aurav@co.mendocino.ca.us
Attachment A – Site Location Map
Attachment B – Project Area Map
Attachment C – Wastewater Treatment System Schematic
Table1, Summary of Facility Specific General Order Requirements (NOA Enclosure)
General Order Numeric
Page Requirement (refer to General Order and NOA for details)
Section Limitation
A. PROHIBITIONS
A.1-A.11 15 -- Prohibitions
B. REQUIREMENTS BY WASTEWATER SYSTEM TYPE
B.1.a-B.1.l 16 -- All Wastewater Systems
B.1.a 16 14,200 gpd Wastewater Flow Limit.
B.3.a-B.3.g 21 -- Aerobic Treatment Systems
B.6.a-B.6.h 24 -- Subsurface Disposal System
B.8.a-B.8.f 26 -- Sludge/Solids/Biosolids Disposal
C. GROUNDWATER AND SURFACE WATER LIMITATIONS
C.1 27 -- Groundwater and Surface Water Limitations
D.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

