will be managed by the County of Sonoma, Service Area No.6, Sea Ranch, Zone 2.
This Order regulates discharges from the OWTS located within the boundaries of the
Zone (see Attachment A: Facility Map which depicts Zone boundaries). The types of
OWTS operating in the zone include conventional septic tank leachfield systems
Sea Ranch Management Zone - 4 –
Order No. R1-2017-0014
W DID 1B89051RSON
serving individual lots and neighborhood systems serving multiple lots.
Neighborhood OWTS are made up of multiple septic tanks connected to a shared
leachfield located in a common area of the development. Sonoma
County Ordinance No. 3904, Regulating the Use of Wastewater Disposal Systems in The
OSena A Ruagnucsht W16a,s 1te9w88a,t ethr eD Sisopnoosaml aZ oCnoeu natnyd B Sooanrodm oaf CSouupnetryv iOsordrisn aadnocpe tNedo. 3905,
Establishing a Fee Schedule for On-Site Wastewater Management Services for The Sea
Ranch Wastewater Disposal Zone,
(hereinafter “Zone Ordinances”). These
Ordinances established a comprehensive program for managing and maintaining
common areas for sewage disposal purposes and for maintenance, inspection, and
monitoring of individual septic tank systems at The Sea Ranch.
On July 13, 1989, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors approved an Operating
Agreement (hereinafter “Operating Agreement”) between the Sea Ranch Association
and the County of Sonoma for management, maintenance, and administration of
County Service Area (CSA) No. 6, Sea Ranch, Zone 2. The Sea Ranch Association is a
nonprofit membership corporation of property owners of the Sea Ranch
development. The Sea Ranch Association has fee interest in real property designated
on the Sea Ranch development map as “common area” and “restricted common
area.” As per the Operating Agreement, the services provided by The Sea Ranch
Association are to comply with water quality discharge standards adopted by the
Regional Water Board. The term of the Operating Agreement has been automatically
extended for successive one year periods since July 1, 1990, and is currently active.
On June 24, 1993, the Regional Water Board adopted Waste Discharge
Requirements Order No. 93-67 for CSA No. 6, Sea Ranch, Zone 2 and The Sea Ranch
Association, On-Site W astewater Management Zone (Order No. 93-67). Later in
1993, CSA No. 6, Sea Ranch Zone 2 became known as CSA 41, Sea Ranch Zone 2
(hereinafter “Zone”). The County of Sonoma and The Sea Ranch Association
(hereinafter Dischargers) have been managing the OWTS including the common
sewage disposal areas pursuant to Order No. 93-67. Adoption of Order R1-2017-
0014, will result in the rescission of Order No. 93-67 and replacement of that Order
with Order R1-2017-0014.
Discharges from the two publicly owned and operated wastewater treatment plants
serving the Sea Ranch development are regulated by the Regional Water Board
under separate waste discharge requirements. The collection systems associated
with the two publicly owned and operated wastewater treatment plants are
currently enrolled under the Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for
Sanitary Sewer Systems (Sanitary Sewer Order).
The Dischargers oversee the operation and management of individual residential
and neighborhood OWTS located within the boundaries of the Zone as per the
Sonoma County Board of Supervisors adopted Zone Ordinances and Operating
Sea Ranch Management Zone - 5 –
Order No. R1-2017-0014
W DID 1B89051RSON
Agreement. There are currently 1,201 individual and neighborhood OWTS serving
the developed residential lots located within the boundaries of the Zone. Of this
number, about 80 percent or 943 are conventional OWTS that consist of a septic
tank followed by effluent dispersal to an individual or shared leachfield. The
remaining 20 percent or 258 are non-conventional OWTS such as shallow trench
pressure distributed systems, mound systems, at-grade systems, and aerobic
treatment and filter pretreatment units. The design of the non-conventional OWTS
was approved by Sonoma County under its Non-standard Sewage Disposal System
Policy. The Zone currently consists of 1,539 total possible OWTS, barring future lot
consolidations or lot splits. Undeveloped residential lots located within the Zone
will be served by OWTS that are currently under construction or are planned for
future construction. All OWTS serving residential lots located within the Zone,
including existing and proposed, are subject to the requirements in this Order.
There are currently 19 commercial waste OWTS located within the Zone serving
non-residential lots. These commercial waste OWTS are under the direct
jurisdiction of the Sonoma County Permit and Resource Management Agency and
C. aLreeg anlo At suutbhjoercitt tioe st.he requirements of this Order.
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
D. B(Wasaitne rP Claond.e).
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native
American culture (CUL).
The beneficial uses applicable to minor coastal streams to be protected are as
follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater
recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment (FRSH), navigation (NAV), water contact
recreation (REC-1), non-contact water recreation (REC-2), commercial and sport
fishing (COMM), cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD), rare,
Sea Ranch Management Zone - 6 –
Order No. R1-2017-0014
W DID 1B89051RSON
threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic organisms (MIGR),
spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA)
E. CNaaltiifvoer Anmiae Wricaatne cru Cltoudree .( CUL).
The control of waste discharge is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

