A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
and institutional users in the City of Fortuna and the Rohnerville-Campton Heights area.
The Facility is located to the south of the City of Fortuna, California, and east of the Eel River.
Treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Strongs Creek during winter
discharge months and to the percolation ponds, which are hydrologically connected to the Eel
River, during the summer through Discharge Point 003.
Collection System
Flows enter the treatment facility by gravity from the north part of the city and through a force
main at a lift station on Strongs Creek. The lift station conveys sewage from the south end of the
city. Sewage enters the plant north of the headworks.
Wastewater Treatment
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1.5 mgd, and a peak wet weather
flow of 7.0 mgd. When influent flows exceed 3 to 4 mgd, influent is partially diverted to an
emergency overflow basin.
Wastewater in the equalization basins is returned for treatment during low flow periods.
Wastewater enters the headworks, which provides grit and screenings removal with an
automatic bar screen and grit channels. Primary sedimentation in one of three circular primary
clarifiers settles out heavier solids, and sludge collectors in the tanks sweep the sludge into a
sludge hopper where it is pumped to the anaerobic digester or gravity belt sludge thickener.
Secondary treatment includes mixing primary effluent with return-activated sludge (RAS) in the
aeration basins. Mixed liquor from the aeration basins flows to two final clarifiers to settle out
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
Order No. R1-2017-0005
City of Fortuna
NPDES No. CA0022730
activated sludge. Disinfection is achieved using chlorine gas and ammonia to form chloramines,
followed by dechlorination.
Effluent is discharged to one of two discharge points, based upon the time of year. From October
1 through May 14, treated effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 to Strongs Creek, a
tributary to the Eel River. From May 15 to September 30, treated effluent is discharged through
Discharge Point 003 into two parallel percolation ponds adjacent to the Eel River. Historically,
Discharge Point 003 was considered a discharge to land. Water board staff has found that the
percolation ponds are below the mean high water mark of the Eel River and that water has been
seen surfacing from groundwater into the percolation ponds. For these reasons, the percolation
ponds are considered hydrologically connected to the Eel River and are subject to Final Effluent
Limitations in this Order.
Biosolids
Waste activated sludge is diverted from the mixed liquor recycling line and pumped to the
anaerobic digester after processing through a gravity belt thickener. Biosolids formed during the
treatment process are composted for 15 days at temperatures in excess of 140 degrees
Fahrenheit (°F) to destroy pathogens. Solids are tested quarterly for metals content to ensure
Exceptional Quality status and the safety of the finished solids. Class A Exceptional Quality
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

