A. Description of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
1. Primary Treatment: The primary treatment consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation and flow equalization. Ferric chloride is injected into the primary
sedimentation sludge to control hydrogen sulfide production and to aid in primary settling.
Settled solids are removed from the primary clarifier for biosolids processing.
2. Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR): Biological treatment consists of bio-augmentation
at a biologically activated reaeration (BAR) tank, feeding into two parallel anoxic tanks and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020-0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651
four parallel aeration tanks for full nitrification and denitrification (NDN). Activated sludge
and mixed liquor recycling is utilized to balance load demands within the system.
3. Secondary & Tertiary Treatment: Mixed liquor is transferred to six parallel rectangular
secondary final sedimentation tanks for secondary settling. Return activated sludge (RAS)
is collected from the clarifiers and returned to the BAR process, while waste activated
sludge (WAS) is sent to the biosolids treatment processes. The secondary treated effluent
is sent to the horizontal pressurized mixed media filtration process.
4. Disinfection: The tertiary treated effluent is disinfected using gaseous chlorine with
ammonia addition to create chloramines with contact time through the chlorine contact
chambers. Most of the disinfected tertiary treated effluent is dechlorinated using gaseous
sulfur dioxide and sent through the effluent transfer stations (ETS) to a series of ‘wildlife’
ponds, which are unlined ponds that allow percolation and contain standing water year-
round. A portion of the disinfected effluent, averaging 0.7 MGD annually, is distributed
using the recycled water system for landscape irrigation or dust control.
5. Biosolids Handling: The biosolids system consists of dissolved air flotation (DAF)
thickener, anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering. The primary settled sludge is
sent directly to anaerobic digesters for thickening. Secondary settled sludge is removed
from the secondary final sedimentation tanks and thickened in the DAF unit. Thickened
sludge is sent to anaerobic digesters for stabilization.
Thickened primary and secondary sludge is sent to three anaerobic digesters operated in
parallel to achieve Class B biosolids. Utilizing the methane gas produced by the anaerobic
digestion, a co-generation system fuels an engine that keeps the digester heated through
a series of heat exchangers. Anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered through one of
two centrifuges to produce a cake of 18 to 23 percent solids. Sludge cake is conveyed to
tractor trailers and hauled offsite for disposal. Centrate waste streams are sent back to the
facility for treatment. All of the Class B anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered and
sent to an offsite contracted composting facility.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Plant upgrades are planned for the existing wastewater treatment plant, in addition to new
facilities planned to protect the ecology of the estuary, develop additional water supply
sources to meet water demands for planned future growth, and enhance supply reliability
even in drought years.
1. Plant Upgrades
Plant upgrades include modification to the anaerobic digester, aeration blower and
nitrification/denitrification (NDN) system, and bioaugmentation in the collection and
process systems. The City is finalizing the design of the capital improvement project to
upgrade the anaerobic digester heating and mixing system. Construction is estimated to
begin after the adoption of this Order and extend to 2020. This upgrade will include
installation of a new gas flare and provide a more consistent gas delivery to the
cogeneration unit. It will also increase the quality of sludge produced by the digesters
that will in turn optimize the performance of the centrifuge dewatering equipment.
The City is also in the design phase of an aeration blower upgrade that will include the
installation of high efficiency blowers to provide the air and mixing in the aeration basins
of the biological nutrient removal (BNR) process. Installation will also include advanced
monitoring and control loops to better control air flow and monitor nitrate levels
throughout the system. This will enable operations staff to have a greater understanding
of the nitrification/denitrification process through online monitoring and Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) software control.
In light of the success of the bioaugmentation system utilized in the sewer collection
system to address sulfide levels, the Ventura WRF has designed, and will pilot a
bioaugmentation system. This system will utilize specific nitrifying bacteria and enzymes
to provide enhanced nitrogen removal to the BNR process in the short term, while larger
capital projects are planned to increase the anoxic tank capacity described below. If
successful, this bioaugmentation system will be utilized to make the BNR process more
consistent during diurnal and seasonal spikes in nitrate concentrations.
a. Nutrient Reduction through Bioaugmentation:
The Ventura WRF has also taken steps to increase biological activity in the
collection system. Traditional forms of chemical treatment were limited in controlling
the septic conditions, were costly, and performed at low efficiencies. A form of
bioaugmentation was introduced and piloted at a collection system lift station and
was found to successfully reduce the amount of sulfide generation which kept the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-13
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020-0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651
influent sulfide level down below the tolerance threshold. A group of bacterial
cultures inoculated in the system were used to control sulfides well enough to be
more cost- and operationally effective than chemical addition. This pilot also
indicated that the cultures could be utilized to reduce ammonia and chemical
additions within the facility. To mitigate impacts from reduced Ventura WRF influent
flows and building upon the data from the collection system bioaugmentation
success, Ventura WRF will be testing another pilot with culture-specific bacteria to
determine whether ammonia loading from facility side streams such as dewatering
centrate can be reduced, resulting in a more enhanced BNR process that can
achieve a higher rate of total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) removal.
b. Collection System Expansion and Upgrades
In addition to the Ventura WRF plant upgrades, expansion and improvements, the
City has also expanded and completed improvements to the collection system. In
February 2016, the City assumed responsibility for the collection system from
Montalvo Community Services District (MCSD).
Among other improvements, during the permit term of 2013 – 2018, in compliance
with the SSO Consent Decree, its SSMP, and its adopted ordinance, policies and
programs, the City has completed 6 miles of sewer main and line replacement, 4
miles of sewer line repair, and repaired or replaced 265 sewer manholes.
Operationally, between 2012 and 2018, 75% of all sewer lines were visually
inspected, and 100% of force mains were inspected and the cycle restarted.
As a result of the City’s upgrades to the SSMP and collection system since
executing the SSO Consent Decree, pursuant to the CIWQS Database, the City’s
collection system performed far better in terms of limiting sanitary sewer system
overflows as compared to statewide and regional average collection system
performance.
The following table presents Ventura WRF’s planned changes contained in the 2018-2024
Capital Improvement Project.
Table F-5. Improvements and Scheduled Implementation Dates
Project Name Description Schedule
Pilot project to determine if dosing of cultivated bacterial strains
Bioaugmentation End of
prior to the anoxic basins can augment the ammonia and nitrogen
Pilot 2019
removal of existing BNR process.
Replacing the existing aeration blowers system with new energy-
Aeration Blowers efficient blowers and instrumentation in a new building, to be fully
Current to
and Control automated with SCADA and nutrient monitoring control loops.
2021
Replacement Project completion is dependent upon results for Bioaugmentation
Pilot currently underway.
TBD based
Primary This project will evaluate replacing the primary sludge gravity
on outcome
Treatment thickener with a new primary sludge thickening unit and pump
of other
Enhancements station.
projects
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-14
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020-0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651
Project Name Description Schedule
This project will replace existing pressure filters with current
Tertiary Filter technology and provide capacity for future wastewater flows. This Fall 2019 to
Replacement will help to ensure optimal filtration and mitigate future turbidity 2020
exceedances.
Installation of a new gas flare, gas mixing equipment and heating
Anaerobic system to improve gas delivery to the cogeneration unit, increase Current to
Digesters the quality of sludge produced by the digesters, and optimize the 2020
performance of the centrifuge dewatering equipment.
This project involves the design and construction of two new anoxic
tanks to add to the existing tanks in the adjacent open space. The
TBD based
increased anoxic capacity will help to alleviate the modified anoxic
on outcome
Increase Anoxic zones in the aeration basins, increasing the reliability of the BNR
of
Tank Capacity process and further reduce the level of nitrate. The aeration
Bioaugmen
process controllers and blowers will be updated to increase
tation Pilot
nitrification. Project need dependent upon results of
Bioaugmentation Pilot currently underway.
This project consists of replacing six existing rectangular secondary
Secondary clarifier mechanisms by designing and constructing improvements
Clarifier to better control and monitor flow distribution, enhancing settling of 2024
Improvements the clarifiers and improving turbidity and solids removal of the
facility.
This project consists of epoxy-coating the chlorine contact chamber
Chlorine Contact
and the design and construction of a new, permanent cover
Cover
structure to prevent algae growth within the chambers that may
Rehabilitation 2024
lead to coliform exceedances. In 2011, tarps were installed to
and
mitigate algae growth and coliform exceedances, and while
Replacement
effective, they are prone to weathering and require frequent repair.
Installation of mixing in the flow equalization basins will help to
Equalization prevent septic conditions from occurring in the structures and
2024
Basin Mixing improve the performance of the primary clarifiers and biological
process.
Recycled Water
This project will upgrade the existing recycled water pump stations
Pump Station 2024
to one larger station to feed the entire recycled water line system.
Upgrade
TBD based
Primary Clarifier This project will evaluate the structural integrity of existing primary
on outcome
Structural clarifiers and consider rehabilitation or replacement of structures
of other
Upgrades along with associated pumping and piping.
projects
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-15
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020-0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651
Recycled Water Development
The City of Ventura has completed an engineering design concept study to increase
recycled water use and decrease discharge to the estuary. The design was presented in
the 2017 Report of Waste Discharge, at meetings with resources agencies in late 2018,
and in a 2019 Ventura Water Supply Projects Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR).
In addition to maintaining compliance with this Order, the objectives of the Ventura Water
Supply Projects include:
• Augmenting local water supply in an environmentally responsible and cost-efficient
manner.
• Providing a drought- and disaster-resilient water supply.
• Providing, maintaining, and improving ecological resources and related beneficial
uses of the SCRE and its watershed.
• Improving municipal supply