5. Wastewater Treatment Facility
. Treatment operations at the Facility include the
headworks (solids removal and flow meter), two aerated ponds, a settling pond, a tertiary
filtration chain, a pasteurization disinfection system, and two effluent storage ponds.
The headworks was designed and built with a grit chamber, a solids comminutor with a
parallel channel for bypass during comminutor maintenance, and a flow measurement
flume employing an ultra-sonic transducer to generate a signal to the flow recorder. The grit
chamber requires manual removal of collected solids. Rags and other large items are
removed manually from the bar screen. Solids are drained into a perforated 5-gallon bucket
and deposited in a trash container for removal to a landfill by a licensed hauler.
Two aerated ponds provide secondary treatment of the screened sewage and are capable of
operating in series or parallel. Each pond has 0.65 acres of surface area with a working
depth of 10 feet, providing a capacity of 1.25 million gallons each. The aerated ponds are
clay-lined with concrete banks for erosion protection at the water surface line. Each pond is
mixed and aerated by two surface aerators ranging from 7.5 to 10 horsepower each.
The settling pond is a 10-foot deep clay-lined and rock armored structure that receives
effluent from the two aerated ponds. The settling pond occupies 0.6 acres and provides for a
volume of 1.2 million gallons. Effluent flows from the settling pond to the transfer wet well
through a floating surface outlet before it is pumped to the tertiary treatment system.
Settling pond water can be recirculated to the headworks through Control Structure No. 1 to
dilute incoming wastewater and reseed with good nitrifying bacteria.
Wastewater from the transfer wet well is pumped into the Suspended Air Flotation (SAF)
system. The influent water is coagulated and flocculated in a 3,500-gallon chemical mixing
tank. Flocculated solids are skimmed off the surface and removed by the SAF. The solids
dewater in bins before being transferred to the on-site compost facility. SAF effluent water
flows into a 5,000-gallon surge tank, where it is pumped through the filters. The Permittee
utilizes a Fuzzy Filter (FF) compressible media deep bed filtration system to achieve tertiary
treated effluent. The two filters can run in parallel during “wet weather mode” or one can
remain on standby during “dry weather mode.” The filters automatically go offline and into
backwash if effluent reaches 2 NTU turbidity, or the pressure reaches 7 psi. Following the
filtration system, water flows into a 3,000-gallon tank, referred to as the “purge tank.” Water
from this tank is used to purge the filters after their backwash cycle and acts as a flow
equalization tank between the filters and the pasteurization disinfection system.
Incoming water to the pasteurization system is preheated using a water-to-water heat
exchanger, where the heat from the effluent water is transferred to the incoming water. The
additional heat needed to bring the water up to pasteurization temperature is achieved
using an air-to-water heat exchanger. The air is heated using the exhaust from a Capstone
30-kW microturbine, supplemented by a duct burner as needed for additional heat. The
plant utilizes electricity produced by the turbine. The minimum required pasteurization
temperature is 162.4°F for 10 seconds, but the Permittee generally operates at 165°F.
Following disinfection, tertiary treated wastewater flows to either of the two effluent
storage ponds. The two on-site storage ponds have a combined capacity of 23.14 million
gallons. This results in a 165-day retention time in the ponds under average dry weather
flow conditions of 0.14 MGD. The retention time is reduced to 27 days of retention time
under peak wet weather flows of 0.85 MGD.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
Order No. R1-2018-0001
Graton Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0023639
6. Biosolids Management.
Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in
the aeration and settling ponds, where they undergo anaerobic digestion and compaction.
Over time, the volume of settled solids increases, reducing the retention time of flow
through the pond. Sludge that collects in the aeration and settling ponds was removed most
recently in 2007. The Permittee plans to mine sludge from the bottom of the ponds during
periods of low flow and remove it through the SAF system to mitigate future sludge blanket
accumulation.
Dewatered solids from the SAF are transferred to the compost area. The solids are
composted using static aeration to meet or exceed title 14 standards, and the composted
solids are used on site. The County of Sonoma Department of Health Services oversees the
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

