below the 8.25 mgd peak wet weather hydraulic capacity of the Facility.
. Influent flow is measured at the headworks with a
Parshall Flume equipped with an ultrasonic flow meter. The ultrasonic flow meter is
connected to a computer for continuous recording of inflows. The headworks has bar
screens on both influent channels and Spiral Kleen units that keep fecal matter in
suspension so that it does not get deposited into the screenings dumpster.
Raw influent entering the Facility passes through the mechanical screens to remove solids
and debris, and is then treated in a series of three ponds. Pond No. 1 is a 2.8 million gallon
primary aeration pond, equipped with a Parkson Biolac extended aeration system, including
air infusion through bubble diffusers and baffles. Pond No. 2 is a secondary aeration pond,
equipped with six mechanical surface floating aerators which can be adjusted according to
the biological oxygen demand of the wastewater. Pond No. 3 is a settling/polishing pond
which allows the suspended solids to settle to the bottom of the pond. Concrete edges
extend approximately 3 feet down the ponds, and the bottoms are composed of clay and
bentonite. Retention time in primary aeration is from 3 to 6 days. Each pond contains baffles
to improve flow and minimize the potential for short-circuiting.
From the settling pond, the wastewater is conveyed by gravity to the chlorination system
and into a 1,200-foot-long, 36-inch diameter underground pipeline, which allows for
adequate contact time for the chlorine to disinfect the wastewater. From the pipe, the
wastewater is distributed into one of seven evaporation/percolation ponds. The
evaporation ponds are unlined and are intentionally scarified each year to promote
percolation. The Permittee uses the percolation ponds on a year-round basis.
The Facility does not currently have advanced wastewater treatment facilities and is not
authorized to discharge to the Russian River unless it is upgraded to provide advanced
3. Biosolids Management.
wastewater treatment.
Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in
the settling/polishing pond (Pond No. 3), and are periodically dredged and dewatered, and
may be land applied or sent to a municipal landfill for disposal. Biosolids were most recently
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

