The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system
comprised of a gravity collection system with one lift station serving approximately
1,200 connections, a mechanical bar screen, activated sludge secondary treatment,
clarification, aerobic sludge digestion, and chlorine disinfection. Treated wastewater
is discharged to percolation ponds located adjacent to Weaver Creek, a tributary to
C. tLheeg Talr iAnuittyh Roirvietire. s A.ttachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility.
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code).
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 - April 19, 2018
Weaverville Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1-2018-0004
D. Basin Plan.
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Weaver Creek
Hydrologic Subarea of the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as
follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater
recharge (GWR), and freshwater replenishment (FRSH).
The beneficial uses applicable to Weaver Creek within the Weaver Creek Hydrologic
Subarea of the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR),
freshwater replenishment (FRSH), hydropower generation (POW), navigation (NAV),
water contact recreation (REC-1), non-contact water recreation (REC-2), commercial
and sport fishing (COMM), cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD),
rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic organisms
(MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN), and aquaculture
E. (CAaQliUfoAr)n. ia Water Code.
The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation
requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish
such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will
ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance
[…].” The control of waste is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

