The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system
serving 135 domestic connections. The system is comprised of a gravity collection
system with one lift station, a community septic tank, a recirculation tank, two
gravel filter beds, and a subsurface leachfield. Septic tank solids are hauled off-site
for disposal at a permitted disposal facility via a Humboldt County permitted
septage pumper truck. The leachfield is located, pursuant to a permanent easement,
on California Department of Parks and Recreation land.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility. Attachment B provides
a Facility flow schematic.
2
Order No. R1-2019-0003 - 3 -
WeoCt.t CLSeDg WalW ATuFt horities.
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
D. B(Wasaitne rP Claond.e).
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Weott Hydrologic
Subarea of the South Fork Eel River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native
American culture (CUL).
The beneficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Weott Hydrologic Subarea
within the South Fork Eel River are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial
process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment
(FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation (POW), water contact recreation
(REC-1), non-contact water recreation (REC-2), commercial and sport fishing (COMM),
warm freshwater habitat (WARM) cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife habitat
(WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic
organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN), and
E. aWqautaecru lCtuordee (.AQUA).
Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires
each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water quality
control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial
uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is established
through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

