each sized to handle the peak hour flow, to provide redundancy.
The Facility is proposed to be built on a 3.3-acre parcel adjacent to Cottonwood Creek
at Latitude 37o 0’ 33” N and Longitude 119o43’ 41” W as shown in Attachment A of the
Notice of Applicability (NOA). The wastewater treatment process will be a membrane
bioreactor system and will meet the requirements of disinfected tertiary recycled water
consistent with Title 22 Requirements for unrestricted irrigation. A process flow diagram
of the treatment process is shown in Attachment B of the NOA. Wastewater will initially
Scott J. Hatton - 3 - 27 August 2019
North Millerton Mutual Water Company
be pumped by an influent lift station through fine screens to an equalization basin.
Following the equalization basin, wastewater flows into an activated sludge process,
which includes an initial anoxic tank with mixer, followed by an aerobic tank, followed by
solids separation using ultrafiltration membranes. The removed solids are either
returned to the anoxic tank (return activated sludge) or wasted to the sludge storage
tanks for thickening and disposal. The water output from ultrafiltration passes on to a
clear well, followed by ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection, low dosing with liquid sodium
hypochlorite, and then finally pumped to the reclamation system.
The design criteria for the UV disinfection system are summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2. UV System Design Criteria
Criterion Value
Peak Flow Rate (over 24 hours) 69 gpm (99,360 gpd)
% Transmittance 65%
Operational UV Dose 80 mJ/cm2
Lamp 800 Watts
The Facility design includes an onsite emergency overflow basin. According to the Title
22 Engineering Report (20 December 2018), wastewater from the influent lift station,
anoxic tank, and/or UV system can all be sent to the on-site emergency storage basin.
Water in the on-site emergency basin can be routed back to the plant influent lift station.
The emergency storage pond will be lined with a 60-mil single layer high density
polyethylene (HDPE) geomembrane textile and installed adjacent to the wastewater
treatment facility. The pond shall be sized to accommodate 24 hours of sewage flow
(roughly 250,000 gallons at buildout and a minimum of 70,500 gallons during Phase
One) and will be used to buffer flows as required. A Construction Quality Assurance
(CQA) Plan needs to be submitted prior to the construction of the pond and installation
of the pond liner.
North Millerton Mutual Water Company currently is the specified owner of the Facility.
However, according to the Discharger, once the Facility is constructed Cal Water
Services will take ownership of the Facility. Cal Water Services will be responsible for
treatment and use of the reclaimed water and will operate the treatment system and
recycled water distribution system. Upon change of ownership, a new Form 200 must
be completed and submitted to the Central Valley Water Board.
TITLE 22 CONSIDERATIONS
The reclamation facilities will consist of a recycled water pump station and a distribution
pipeline to recycled water storage ponds and landscape irrigation areas. Phase One of
the system will include three reclaimed water ponds. 17.66 acres of use areas are
designated to be irrigated with reclaimed water in Phase One. The recycled water will
Scott J. Hatton - 4 - 27 August 2019
North Millerton Mutual Water Company
be used for irrigation of common landscape areas throughout the development. The
system will be expanded with storage ponds and irrigation use areas as the
development grows. During Phase One, reclaimed water will be used on common area
landscaping such as open space, parks and medians. At full build-out, the common
areas for reclaimed water may include areas such as a golf course, parks, schools, trail
ways, and other public right-of-ways.
The 8 February 2019 conditional approval letter from DDW lists conditions for approval
of the Title 22 Engineering Report. Prior to commencing reclamation of treated effluent
at the Facility, the Discharger must be issued reclamation requirements. Based on
available information, the proposed reclamation appears eligible for enrollment on under
the State Water Resources Control General Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW, Water
Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Reclamation General Order). The
Title 22 Engineering report mentions that the report “anticipates” application under the
Reclamation General Order. To be considered for enrollment under the Reclamation
General Order, the Discharger must submit a Notice of Intent (described in Attachment
A of the General Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW) and the applicable application fee.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
According to the 2018 November RWD and the December 2018 Title 22 Engineering
Report, the Facility will provide disinfected tertiary treatment consistent with Title 22
requirements for unrestricted irrigation. Reclaimed water will be used for irrigation of
landscaping around the development. Three reclaimed water storage ponds are
proposed for Phase One to facilitate reuse. The ponds will be unlined and some
percolation is anticipated. The wastewater treatment plant will be designed to produce
treated effluent with total nitrogen (as N) concentrations of less than 10 mg/L. Table 3
summarizes the anticipated treated

===PLANNED CHANGES===

