NA denotes not applicable.
Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exists:
1. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one-third of the tank depth of the
first compartment.
2. The scum layer is within 3 inches of the outlet device.
3. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.
If a septic tank is pumped during the year, the pumping report shall be submitted with the annual
report. All pumping reports shall be submitted with the next regularly scheduled monitoring report.
At a minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of service, service company name, and
service company license number.
SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL AREA
Subsurface disposal areas may be configured many different ways (e.g. traditional leach field,
pressure-dosed, drip system, mound/at grade, gravel less, etc.). In general, monitoring shall be
sufficient to determine if wastewater is evenly applied, the disposal area is not saturated, burrowing
animals and/or deep rooted plants are not present, and odors are not present. Inspection of dosing
pump controllers, automatic distribution valves, etc. is required to maintain optimum treatment in
the disposal area (and any sand or media filter if present). Monitoring shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
Constituent Inspection Frequency Reporting Frequency
Pump Controllers, Automatic Valves, etc. a Quarterly Quarterly
Nuisance Odor Condition Quarterly Quarterly
Saturated Soil Conditions b Quarterly Quarterly
Plant Growth c Quarterly Quarterly
Vectors or Animal Burrowing d Quarterly Quarterly
Seepage Pit Condition e Quarterly Quarterly
a.
All pump controllers and automatic distribution valves shall be inspected for proper operation as
recommended by the manufacturer.
b.
Inspect a disposal area for saturated conditions. If a mound system is used, inspect perimeter base for signs
of wastewater seepage or saturated soil conditions.
c.
Shallow-rooted plants are generally desirable, deep-rooted plants such as trees shall be removed as
necessary.
d. Evidence of animals burrowing shall be immediately investigated and burrowing animal populations controlled
as necessary.
e.
Seepage pits shall be inspected to ensure they are allowing wastewater to infiltrate as designed. Visual
inspection of the water level in the seepage pit is adequate.
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids, etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the
name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported,
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014-0153-DWQ-R5234 4
CASA DEL REY, BUTTE COUNTY
the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name and address, and
copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be
submitted as part of the annual monitoring report.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

