existing LCSD (formerly LPMWC) wastewater treatment facility will be replaced
with an Aero-Mod activated sludge facility. Lift Station 1 and 2 will be
decommissioned, and a new lift station (TDBLS) will be constructed to convey all
wastewater from the former LVMWC and TDMHP to the new LCSD wastewater
treatment facility. The existing LCSD oxidation ponds will be repurposed for use
as an emergency effluent retention basin. The former LPMWC percolation beds
will be reconstructed into eight leach field beds. The leach field beds are located
approximately 75 feet north of the Trinity River.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 5 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1-2020-0024
Aerobically digested sludge will be dried in four drying beds at the LCSD
wastewater treatment facility and disposed of at a permitted landfill.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a map of the Facility, effluent pipeline and leach fields. Attachment C
provides a design Facility layout. Attachment D provides a Facility flow schematic.
Attachment E is the Monitoring and Reporting Program.
Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for discharges to
land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code).
C. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin
Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88-63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Douglas City
Hydrologic Subarea of the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area to be protected are
as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture
(AQUA), and Native American culture (CUL).
The beneficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Douglas City Hydrologic
Subarea within the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area are as follows: municipal
and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service
supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR),
freshwater replenishment (FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation
(POW), water contact recreation (REC-1), non-contact water recreation (REC-2),
commercial and sport fishing (COMM), cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife
habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of
aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development
(SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
Waste Discharge Requirements - 6 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1-2020-0024
D. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241
requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water
quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is
established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

