scheduled for adoption by the Regional Water Board concurrently with this Order.
Each connection to the Gualala collection system includes a (Septic Tank Effluent
Pumping) STEP process, which consists of a septic tank to pre‐treat the
wastewater and a submersible, low‐horsepower sump pump which discharges the
wastewater to the collection system. The collection system serves GCSD sewer
zones 1 and 2, which comprises roughly one‐third of the District boundary area.
The STEP system consists of 34,600 feet of gravity and 27,900 feet of pressurized
mains ranging in diameter from 2 to 6 inches, interceptor tanks, and three lift
stations. The service area comprises both residential and commercial uses
(restaurants, supermarkets, laundromat, and several small businesses), and
consists of approximately 415 EDUs (equivalent dwelling units).
Waste Discharge Requirements 4
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1-2022-0004
At the terminus of the collection system a fourth lift station, Lift Station #4, pumps
the wastewater through a 6‐inch diameter force main to the WWTF.
Sea Ranch North wastewater flows are generated from 500 connected parcels.
The collection system consists of 14 miles of gravity mains which terminate at the
Sea Ranch North WWTF at the north end of the community of The Sea Ranch.
Wastewater from the Sea Ranch North community is treated to a primary level
(screening and aeration) prior to being pumped through a one mile force main to
the Gualala CSD WWTF where it is comingled with wastewater from the
community of Gualala prior to treatment.
The Gualala CSD and Sea Ranch North collection systems, including the
temporary storage of wastewater at the Sea Ranch North influent pond are
enrolled separately under State Water Resources Control Board Order No. 2006-
0003-DWQ, Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer
Systems.
The Discharger’s wastewater treatment system includes two aerated ponds and
two clarifiers for secondary treatment, a travelling bridge and fine screen filter for
tertiary treatment, and a chlorine contact chamber for disinfection. The Facility is
designed as an extended aeration activated sludge plant.
The Facility also includes four effluent storage ponds with a combined capacity of
28.4 million gallons. Three of the ponds, totaling 20 million gallons of capacity, are
located adjacent to the Gualala WWTF. The three ponds adjacent to the Gualala
WWTF were designed with subdrain systems that can be monitored to determine
if there is leakage from the ponds. The fourth pond, with a capacity of 8.4 million
gallons, is located at the Sea Ranch North WWTF site. The recycled water from all
four effluent storage ponds is delivered to the 80 acre golf course, The Sea Ranch
Golf Links, through an 8-inch diameter pipeline for irrigation of turf grass within the
fairways, tee boxes, and greens.
The Discharger’s November 2021 Title 22 Engineering Report addresses recycled
water production and storage, as well as distribution, and use on The Sea Ranch
Golf Links. Thus, this Order includes water recycling requirements that apply to
the production, storage, distribution, and use of tertiary recycled water.
The ROWD includes an analysis of recycled water capacity, noting that storage
pond capacity is inadequate during periods of above average precipitation. The
Discharger is concerned that the cost of constructing additional recycled water
storage to address extreme wet weather conditions is not an effective use of its
limited financial resources.
Waste Discharge Requirements 5
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1-2022-0004
Gualala’s median household income (MHI) of $56,6481 is less than 80 percent of
the California MHI, which qualifies the area as a disadvantaged community per the
State Water Board Division of Financial Assistance (DFA) criteria. Therefore, the
Discharger has focused its efforts and limited resources on addressing inflow and
infiltration issues in its collection system. The Discharger has requested that this
Order provide allowance for use of the approximately 2 MG percolation pond at
The Sea Ranch Golf Links during periods of above average precipitation when the
storage ponds are filling to capacity. According to the ROWD, the percolation pond
has the capacity to percolate up to 600,000 gallons per day. This percolation pond
has been used for disposal of disinfected tertiary effluent in recent years when all
storage ponds have filled during periods of extreme wet weather and effluent and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

