treatment capacity of 0.27 mgd, and a peak daily wet weather treatment
capacity of 0.77 mgd. The Facility is an extended aeration, activated sludge
system comprised of two oxidation ditches, two clarifiers, chlorine contact
chamber, and sulfur dioxide dechlorination.
The Facility also includes a tertiary treatment filtration system for effluent reused
for irrigation of the Shelter Cove Golf Course. For this process, disinfected
wastewater from the chlorine contact chamber is dosed with a polymer for
coagulation then routed to the filter building for filtration through either of two
continuous backwash up-flow silica sand media filters. Filtered wastewater is
stored in the building clearwell and then chlorinated downstream of the clearwell
prior to discharging the 3,500 lineal feet to the golf course irrigation storage
pond (90,000 gallons).
This Order includes requirements for the production of recycled water but does
not permit the use of recycled water at this time. The Permittee must complete
tasks that include completion of a tracer study on the chlorine contact basin and
potentially upgrade the Facility to meet recycled water requirements in title 22 of
the California Code of Regulations. In addition, the Permittee needs to develop
a Recycled Water Irrigation Management Plan that also includes an agronomic
rate analysis for the recycled water use. After the Permittee receives approval
from the State Water Board Division of Drinking Water (DDW) to resume the use
of recycled water, the Permittee will need to enroll its use of recycled water
under Order statewide Recycled Water General Order or this Order will need to
be modified to include requirements for the use of recycled water, including any
conditions for the production and use of recycled water included in a DDW
acceptance letter.
During the winter period, all of the secondary treated effluent is discharged
through Discharge Point 001 into the surf zone of the Pacific Ocean within the
King Range National Conservation Area. During the spring, summer, and fall,
some or all of the treated effluent has been discharged through Discharge Point
002 to a storage pond that supplies a spray irrigation system on the Shelter
Cove Golf Course, a nine-hole golf course.
Digested stabilized sludge is dewatered using a proprietary 12-bag sludge
drying unit. Sludge from the clarifiers is mixed with a polymer and placed in filter
bags that allow the liquid to escape while retaining the solids. The filtrate is
returned to the secondary treatment process, and dried sludge is taken to the
Humboldt County solid waste transfer station for landfill disposal.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
Humboldt County
Resort Improvement District No. 1 Order R1-2022-0002
Shelter Cove WWTF NPDES NO. CA0023027
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility currently uses chlorine gas and sulfur dioxide gas for chlorination and
dechlorination. Receiving deliveries of the gases has proven difficult and
extremely costly. Along with the treacherous and at-times weather-dependent
road, safety and emergency response pose significant issues, as the nearest
emergency responders, in the event of a leak or other emergency, are two hours
away. The Permittee is, therefore investigating converting from gaseous
chlorination and dechlorination to a liquid or tablet system.
The Permittee is also investigating the possibility of converting sections of the
oxidation ditches into anoxic denitrification zones in order to remove nitrate from
the effluent if this is necessary for water recycling.
The Permittee is in the process of replacing the V-notch overflow weirs on both of
the secondary clarifiers and installing and programming a new SCADA system for
the wastewater treatment plant and collection system.
3.