V. OTHER SPECIFICATIONS
A. Storage Ponds. The following requirements apply to treatment and effluent
storage and disposal ponds.
1. Pond Management, Operation, and Maintenance. Ponds shall be
managed, operated, and maintained to protect containment integrity,
prevent overtopping or structural failure, and prevent damage from
burrowing animals. Pond containment damage shall be repaired as soon
as possible.
2. Pond Construction. Ponds used for the storage of wastewater shall be
constructed in a manner that protects beneficial uses of groundwater.
3. Pond Freeboard. The Discharger shall always maintain at least 2 feet of
freeboard in all treatment and effluent storage and disposal ponds.
B. Full Treatment. Excess influent flows and/or off specification process flows
temporarily diverted to ponds must be returned to the headworks for full
treatment.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 12 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1-2022-0011
C. Winter Months. The Facility shall have sufficient treatment, storage, and
disposal to accommodate allowable wastewater flow, design seasonal
precipitation, and ancillary infiltration and inflow during the winter months.
D. Objectionable Odor. The Discharger shall prevent objectionable odors
originating at the Facility from being perceivable beyond the limits of the
wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
E. Discharge. No waste constituent shall be released, discharged, or placed where
it will be released or discharged in a concentration or in a mass that causes
violation of the Basin Plan’s water quality objectives for groundwater.
F. Public Contact. The Discharger shall preclude or control public contact with
wastewater through such means as fences and signs, or other applicable
alternatives.
G. Vector Control. The Discharger shall manage the Facility and effluent disposal
area to prevent the breeding of mosquitos. All ponds and open containment
structures shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes or other vectors.
Specifically:
1. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small coves
and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
2. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
3. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water
surface.
4. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito
Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding as needed
to supplement the above measures.
H. Technical Reports. All technical reports required herein that involve planning,
investigation, evaluation, or design, or other work requiring interpretation and
proper application of engineering or geologic sciences, shall be prepared by or
under the direction of person registered to practice in California pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code (sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1). To
demonstrate compliance with sections 415 and 3065 of title 16, CCR, all
technical reports shall contain a statement of the qualifications of the responsible
registered professional(s). As required by these laws, completed technical
reports shall bear the signature(s) and seal(s) of the registered professional(s) in
a manner that demonstrates that all work can be clearly attributed to the
professional responsible for the work.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 13 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1-2022-0011
VI. SOLIDS HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
A. Sludge, as used in this Order, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues
removed during primary and secondary wastewater treatment processes. Solid
waste refers to grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment.
Biosolids refers to sludge that has been treated, tested, and demonstrated to be
capable of being beneficially and legally used pursuant to federal and state
regulations as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and land
reclamation activities.
B. All collected sludges and other solid waste removed from liquid wastes shall be
removed from screens, sumps, ponds, and tanks as needed to ensure optimal
plant operation and disposed of in accordance with applicable federal and State
regulations.
C. All biosolids generated by the Discharger shall be used or disposed of in
compliance with the applicable portions of 40 C.F.R. 257, 258, and 503. The
Discharger is responsible for assuring that all biosolids produced at the Facility
are used or disposed of in accordance with these rules, whether the Discharger
uses or disposes of the biosolids itself or transfers them to another party for
further treatment and use or disposal. The Discharger is responsible for informing
subsequent preparers, appliers, and disposers of the requirements that they shall
meet under these rules, and any monitoring requirements, including required
frequencies of monitoring and maximum hold times for pathogen and indicator
organism samples.
D. Sludge or biosolids that are disposed of in a municipal solid waste landfill or used
as daily landfill cover shall meet the applicable requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part
258. In the annual self-monitoring report, the Discharger shall report the amount
of sludge placed in a landfill and the landfill(s) which received the sludge or
biosolids.
E. The Discharger shall take all reasonable steps to prevent and minimize any
sludge use or disposal in violation of this Order that may adversely affect human
health or the environment.
F. The treatment, storage, transport, disposal and/or application of sludge or
biosolids shall not cause or threaten to cause pollution or nuisance, such as
objectionable odors or flies, and shall not adversely affect beneficial uses of
groundwater or cause an exceedance of any applicable Basin Plan water quality
objectives for groundwater or surface water.
G. Solids and sludge treatment and storage sites shall have facilities adequate to
divert surface water runoff from adjacent areas, to protect the boundaries of the
site from erosion, and to prevent drainage from the storage site.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 14 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1-2022-0011
Adequate protection is defined as protection from at least a 100-year storm with
a 100-year recurrence interval and 24-hour duration.
H. The treatment and storage of sludge and solids shall not cause waste material to
be in a position where it is, or can be, conveyed from the treatment or storage
site and deposited in waters of the state.
I. Residual sludge and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved by
the Regional Water Board Executive Officer and consistent with requirements in
title 27, division 2 of the CCR (Consolidated Requirements for Treatment,
Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste).
J. For the land application of biosolids as soil amendment, the Discharger shall
submit a report of waste discharge or the Discharger may dispose of biosolids at
another appropriately permitted facility.
K. If biosolids are stored for over two years from the time they are generated by the
Discharger or their contractor, the Discharger shall submit a written notification to
U.S. EPA with the information in 40 C.F.R. part 503.20 (b), demonstrating the
need for longer temporary storage.
VII.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

