Chlorite [3] 1.0 0.020
Notes: [1] Bromate is listed for plant using ozone disinfection only.
[2] For analysis performed using EPA Method 317.0 Revision 2.0, 321.8, or
326.0.
[3] Chlorite is listed for plant using chlorine dioxide only.
A-8
Attachment A-5
Table 64449-A Secondary Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs)
Chemical MCLs Units
Aluminum 0.2 mg/L
Color 15 Units
Copper 1.0 mg/L
Foaming Agents (MBAS) 0.5 mg/L
Iron 0.3 mg/L
Manganese 0.05 mg/L
Methyl-tert-butyl ether (MTBE) 0.005 mg/L
Odor -Threshold 3 Units
Silver 0.1 mg/L
Thiobencarb 0.001 mg/L
Turbidity 5 Units
Zinc 5.0 mg/L
Notes: Titles 17 and 22 California of Regulations – California Regulations Related to
Drinking Water [updated July 2021]
A-9
ATTACHMENT B
Table 1. Constituents of Emerging Concern (CECs)
Reporting Limit
Constituent [1] Constituent Group
(µg/L) [2]
1,4-Dioxane Industrial chemical 0.1
N-Nitrosodimethylamine
Disinfection byproduct 0.002
(NDMA)
N-Nitrosomorpholine
Industrial chemical 0.002
(NMOR)
Perfluorooctane sulfonate Consumer/industrial
0.0065
(PFOS) chemical
Perfluorooctanoic acid Consumer/industrial
0.007
(PFOA) chemical
Sucralose Food additive 0.1
Sulfamethoxazole Antibiotic 0.01
Table Notes:
[1] Health-based and Performance Indicator, Water Quality Control Policy for
Recycled Water (Recycled Water Policy), effective April 8, 2019.
[2] Required reporting limits, micrograms per liter (µg/L).
B-1
ATTACHMENT C – STANDARD PROVISIONS
APPLICABLE TO WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
1. DUTY TO COMPLY
The discharger must comply with all conditions of these waste discharge
requirements. A responsible party has been designated in the Order for this project,
and is legally bound to maintain the monitoring program and permit. Violations may
result in enforcement actions, including Regional Board orders or court orders
requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in modification or
revocation of these waste discharge requirements by the Regional Board. (California
Water Code, Sections 13261, 13263, 13265, 13268, 13300, 13301, 13304, 13340,
and 13350). Failure to comply with any waste discharge requirement, monitoring
and reporting requirement, or other order or prohibition issued, reissued or amended
by the Los Angeles Water Board or State Water Resources Control Board is a
violation of these waste discharge requirements and the Water Code, which can
result in the imposition of civil liability. (California Water Code, Section 13350,
subdivision (a).)
2. GENERAL PROHIBITION
Neither the treatment nor the discharge of waste shall create a pollution,
contamination or nuisance, as defined by California Water Code section 13050. In
addition, the discharge of waste classified as hazardous, as defined in California
Code of Regulations, Title 23, Section 2521, subdivision (a) is also prohibited.
3. AVAILABILITY
A copy of these waste discharge requirements shall be maintained at the discharge
facility and be available at all times to operating personnel. (California Water Code,
Section 13263)
4. CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP
The discharger must notify the Executive Officer, in writing at least 30 days in
advance of any proposed transfer of this Order’s responsibility and coverage to a
new discharger containing a specific date for the transfer of this Order’s
responsibility and coverage between the current discharger and the new discharger.
This agreement shall include an acknowledgement that the existing discharger is
liable for violations up to the transfer date and that the new discharger is liable from
the transfer date forward. (California Water Code, Sections 13267 and 13263)
5. CHANGE IN DISCHARGE
In the event of a material change in the character, location, or volume of a discharge,
the discharger shall file with this Regional Board a new Report of Waste Discharge.
C-1 June 22, 2023
(California Water Code, Section 13260, subdivision (c)). A material change includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Addition of a major industrial waste discharge to a discharge of essentially
domestic sewage, or the addition of a new process or product by an
industrial facility resulting in a change in the character of the waste.
(b) Significant change in disposal method, e.g., change from a land disposal
to a direct discharge to water, or change in the method of treatment which
would significantly alter the characteristics of the waste.
(c) Significant change in the disposal area, e.g., moving the discharge to
another drainage area, to a different water body, or to a disposal area
significantly removed from the original area potentially causing different
water quality or nuisance problems.
(d) Increase in flow beyond that specified in the waste discharge
requirements.
(e) Increase in the area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond
that specified in the waste discharge requirements. (California Code of
Regulations Title 23, Section 2210)
6. REVISION
These waste discharge requirements are subject to review and revision by the
Regional Board. (California Water Code, Sections 13263)
7. NOTIFICATION
Where the discharger becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts in a
Report of Waste Discharge or submitted incorrect information in a Report of Waste
Discharge or in any report to the Regional Board, it shall promptly submit such facts
or information. (California Water Code, Sections 13260 and 13267)
8. VESTED RIGHTS
This Order does not convey any property rights of any sort or any exclusive
privileges. The requirements prescribed herein do not authorize the commission of
any act causing injury to persons or property, do not protect the discharger from his
liability under Federal, State or local laws, nor do they create a vested right for the
discharger to continue the waste discharge. (California Water Code, Section 13263,
subdivision (g))
C-2 June 22, 2023
9. SEVERABILITY
Provisions of these waste discharge requirements are severable. If any provisions
of these requirements are found invalid, the remainder of the requirements shall not
be affected.
10. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
The discharger shall, at all times, properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or
used by the discharger to achieve compliance with conditions of this Order. Proper
operation and maintenance include effective performance, adequate funding,
adequate operator staffing and training, and adequate laboratory and process
controls including appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires
the operation of backup or auxiliary facilities or similar systems only when necessary
to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order. (California Water Code,
Section 13263, subdivision (f).)
11. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT
Except for a discharge which is in compliance with these waste discharge
requirements, any person who, without regard to intent or negligence, causes or
permits any hazardous substance or sewage to be discharged in or on any waters
of the State, or discharged or deposited where it is, or probably will be, discharged
in or on any waters of the State, shall, as soon as (a) that person has knowledge of
the discharge, (b) notification is possible, and (c) notification can be provided without
substantially impeding cleanup or other emergency measures, immediately notify
the Office of Emergency Services of the discharge in accordance with the spill
reporting provision of the State toxic disaster contingency plan adopted pursuant to
Article 3.7 (commencing with Section 8574.7) of Chapter 7 of Division 1 of Title 2 of
the Government Code, and immediately notify the State Board or the appropriate
Regional Board of the discharge. This provision does not require reporting of any
discharge of less than a reportable quantity as provided for under subdivisions (f)
and (g) of Section 13271 of the Water Code unless the discharger is in violation of
a prohibition in the applicable Water Quality Control plan. (California Water Code,
Section 13271, subdivision (a).)
12. OIL OR PETROLEUM RELEASES
Except for a discharge which is in compliance with these waste discharge
requirements, any person who without regard to intent or negligence, causes or
permits any oil or petroleum product to be discharged in or on any waters of the
State, or discharged or deposited where it is, or probably will be, discharged in or on
any waters of the State, shall, as soon as (a) such person has knowledge of the
discharge, (b) notification is possible, and (c) notification can be provided without
substantially impeding cleanup or other emergency measures, immediately notify
the Office of Emergency Services of the discharge in accordance with the spill
C-3 June 22, 2023
reporting provision of the State oil spill contingency plan adopted pursuant to Article
3.5 (commencing with Section 8574.1) of Chapter 7 of Division 1 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. This provision does not require reporting of any discharge of less
than 42 gallons unless the discharge is also required to be reported pursuant to
Section 311 of the Clean Water Act or the discharge is in violation of a prohibition in
the applicable Water Quality Control Plan. (California Water Code, Section 13272)
13. INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS
The discharger shall allow the Regional Board, or an authorized representative upon
the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law, to:
(a) Enter upon the discharger’s premises where a regulated facility or activity is
located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of
this Order;
(b) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of this Order;
(c) Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring
and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under
this Order; and
(d) Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring
compliance with this Order, or as otherwise authorized by the California
Water Code, any substances or parameters at any location. (California Water
Code, Section 13267)
(e) Except for material determined to be confidential in accordance with
applicable law, all reports prepared in accordance with the terms of this Order
shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Los Angeles Water
Board. Data on waste discharges, water quality, geology, and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

