Ridgemark Estates Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Wastewater System is capable of treating 350,000 gallons per day to a secondary
treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and
treatment capabilities shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Influent wastewater enters the treatment plant where flows
are measured through a magnetic flow meter. The flow
meter records the instantaneous and totalized flow. A flow-
based composite sampler captures influent samples for
Headworks/Preliminary operation and reporting. Trash and debris is removed by a
Treatment perforated drum screen, which overflows to a manual
screen/trash rack if it becomes clogged. Next, a
mechanical vortex removes grit. Trash and grit are
directed to trash bins by screw conveyors.
Headworks capacity (gpd): 1,430,000
From the Headworks screens, wastewater flows directly
Primary Treatment into the sequencing batch reactor (SBR) basins without
any prior sedimentation basins.
SBR technology is used for secondary treatment. Each of
the two 320,000 gallon basins alternate between aerobic
and anaerobic conditions for nitrogen removal. The design
Secondary Treatment
hydraulic retention time for an average flow rate of
350,000 gpd is 43.8 hours.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 350,000
Treated effluent is disposed of through onsite percolation
ponds. Disposal is rotated between the four percolation
ponds so that maintenance can be conducted on each
pond as it is rotated out of service. There are two
Wastewater Disposal
additional inactive ponds located to the east of the main
Method
Wastewater Plant at the former Ridgemark II Plant. These
additional two ponds can accept flow for percolation if
needed.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 840,000
The Wastewater Plant can store raw sewage in two
decommissioned ponds at the former Ridgemark II Plant in
an emergency. The liner has been unconfirmed to
Emergency Storage
conform with the General Permit’s requirements for
existing storage ponds. An investigation will be conducted
to determine the two ponds liner condition.
Sludge from the SBR undergoes further anaerobic
treatment in a sludge storage tank. Solids are then
Biosolids/Sludge
pumped into one of four 23,100 square foot concrete lined
Production and
sludge drying beds. Once sludge is sufficiently dried, they
Handling
are tested and removed to a landfill.
Annual production of biosolids: 48.1 tons
Sunnyslope County Water District - 3 - May 27, 2022
Ridgemark Estates Wastewater Treatment Facility
The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is John
Smith Landfill located at 2650 John Smith Road, Hollister
Wastewater System does
Non-Potable Recycled Non-potable recycled
NOT produce non-potable
Water water produced onsite:
recycled water.
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Sunnyslope County Water District must operate the Wastewater System in accordance
with the General Permit and this notice of applicability. Sunnyslope County Water
District must comply with the wastewater specific limitations specified in Table 3 through
5.
Table 3. Flow Limitations
Point of
Flow Units Limit
Compliance
Maximum Daily
Gallons per day 350,000 Influent
Average
Maximum Effluent
Gallons per day 840,000 Effluent
(to disposal area)
Table 4.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

