and ensuring compliance with the WDRs in this Order.
FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
20. Piru WWTP and Vicinity
A. The Piru WWTP (34°24'05.0 "N, 118°49'30.9 "W) is located at 2815 East
Telegraph Road in Piru in an unincorporated area of Ventura County
(Assessor's Parcel Numbers (APN) are 055-0-170-375 and 055-0-170-415).
B. The two percolation ponds (34°23'26.1 "N, 118°49'58.9"W) are located
approximately 4,000 feet southwest of the Piru WWTP and approximately 500
feet away from the Santa Clara River. The APNs are 055-0-160-295 and 055-
0-270-275.
C. The two evaporation tanks are located within the area of the Piru WWTP.
D. The Piru WWTP and its percolation ponds overlie the Piru Groundwater Basin
(Department of Water Resource Basin No. 4-4.06), as shown in Figure 2. The
Basin Plan defines the subject subbasin as Piru Groundwater Basin-Lower
Area West of Piru Creek Subbasin.
21. Piru WWTP Processes
A. The Piru WWTP has a tertiary treatment capacity of an average daily dry
weather flow of 500,000 gpd. Tertiary Treatment at the Piru Treatment Plant
consists of treating the secondary treated effluent to reduce the levels of
chlorides and TDS present for meeting the discharge requirements. As shown
in Figures 3 and 4, the secondary treated effluent from the Clarifiers flows via
gravity to the Equalization Basin. From the Equalization Basin, the secondary
treated effluent is then pumped via the Tertiary Pump Station to the tertiary
treatment system. Tertiary treatment reduces the levels of chlorides and TDS
through a desalination treatment known as Electrochemical Nano Diffusion
(END). END is a water treatment technology that combines elements of
electrochemical cells, ion exchange membranes, and Electrodialysis Reversal
(EDR) treatment. Prior to entering the END for desalination, the secondary
5
Ventura County Waterworks District No. 16 Order No. R4-2023-0292
Piru Wastewater Treatment Plant File No. 08-164
treated effluent undergoes pre-treatment consisting of disinfection and filtration
to reduce potential bio-loading of the END system.
B. The Piru WWTP consists of an influent pump station, two vertical bar screens,
two extended oxidation ditches, and two secondary clarifiers. In addition, an
ozone disinfection unit, two multimedia filters, an END desalination unit, and
two evaporation tanks for brine disposal will be constructed. The following is a
brief description of each unit process component, as shown in Figures 3 and
4.
i. The influent pump station consists of a wet well and three submersible
pumps and lifts the influent from the sewer collection system to
downstream processes by gravity flow.
ii. Two vertical bar screens are operated in parallel to remove large materials
that could interfere with wastewater treatment.
iii. The two extended oxidation ditches have a total volume of 570,000
gallons. Each oxidation ditch is divided into two zones: anoxic and aerobic
zones, which are designed to facilitate biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) removal and nitrogen removal by nitrification and denitrification
processes.
iv. Each of the two circular-shaped secondary clarifiers has a dimension of
45 feet in diameter and 12 feet in depth.
v. The ozone disinfection system consists of an air compressor unit, an
oxygen concentrator unit, an ozone generator unit, and an ozone contact
tank. To remove viruses and pathogens in the effluent, an appropriate
concentration-time (CT) or oxidation and reduction potential (ORP) value
will be maintained based on the demand by seasonal variations,
temperature, pH, turbidity, dissolved organics and inorganics.
vi. Each of the two multimedia filters consists of three layers of media:
anthracite, sand, and gravel and will be operated in parallel. The empty
bed contact time for each filter will be approximately 5.9 minutes.
vii. The modular END desalination system consists of electrochemical cells,
ion exchange membranes, and electrodialysis reversal (EDR) unit. The
EDR desalination system can treat up to 140,000 gpd of wastewater and
produce up to 5,600 gpd of brine.
C. Waste activated sludge from the secondary treatment is sent to two onsite
aerobic digesters for digestion. Residual sludge from the digesters is
dewatered by a belt press. Dewatered sludge is hauled off offsite to Toland
Road Landfill, an authorized waste management facility.
6
Ventura County Waterworks District No. 16 Order No. R4-2023-0292
Piru Wastewater Treatment Plant File No. 08-164
D. Evaporation tanks – Produced brine from the END desalination treatment is
discharged into nearby evaporation tanks. The tanks consist of above ground
galvanized steel tanks fitted with multiple non-woven membrane polyethylene
liners and a leak detection system, as shown in Figures 5 and 6. Each tank has
a rated storage capacity of 156,000 gallons. Each pond contains an operational
volume of 70,000 gallons, which accounts for the 6 inches of minimum level
and 2 feet of freeboard required. Level-detecting instrumentation is mounted to
each tank and wired to the local Programmable Local Controller (PLC) which
communicates to the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
system. In the event an instrument detects a high level, an alarm is transmitted
to notify the Operators to assess the system. In the event an instrument detects
a high-high level, the Desalination Treatment system is automatically
commanded to shut down.
i. The dimensions of each evaporation tank will be 83 feet by 56.34 feet and
4.75 feet.
ii. The liner system consists of two 36-mil geomembranes, and each liner is
supported by an 8-ounce geotextile liner. The bottom of the tank,
consisting of wire cables on earthen ground, will be covered with another
layer of geotextile and geomembrane of 30 mils or thicker, as shown in
Figure 6.
iii. Each tank is equipped with a downdraft floating evaporating blower that
produces boundary layer evaporation.
For operation, there is a weather station for monitoring local weather
conditions. The blowers are equipped with controls to ramp their speed
(capacities) up and down based on production, target brine concentration, and
weather conditions. During an Operator's weekly routine maintenance reviews,
each pond is inspected to verify production efficacy, brine composition, level,
and the system's integrity; particularly the liner assembly and its leak detection
system.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

