MGD, with an average of 1.86 MGD.
B. The wastewater treatment process at the SPWRF (See Figure 3 for process flow
schematic) consists of preliminary treatment (coarse and fine mechanical screening
and grit removal at the Influent Lift Station), flow equalization (two flow equalization
tanks), secondary treatment (three aeration tanks with nitrification and denitrification
activated sludge), tertiary treatment (six biomembrane reactors, providing further
carbonaceous oxidation, nitrification/denitrification and solids removal to meet the
limits of the WDRs), and disinfection (UV). Treated and disinfected effluent is
discharged to three percolation ponds (Figure 4). The returned activated sludge is
treated at two of three aerobic digesters (one aerobic digester is for backup) after
being thickened at two thickeners. The solids generated at the aerobic digesters
receive final dewatering at the screw dewatering press. Final solids meeting the United
States Environmental Protection agency (USEPA) Class B reuse standards are sent
to the Ventura County Regional Bio-Solids facility.
C. The SPWRF was not designed to remove chloride. Since the SPWRF has no ability
to remove chloride, chloride is passed through to the effluent and then groundwater
via discharges to the percolation pond.
3
City of Santa Paula Order No. R4-2018-0022
Santa Paula Water Recycling Facility File No. 06-189
D. The City owns and operates the sewer collection system, which conveys domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater to the SPWRF. Two industrial users within the
City are Aurora Casting (metal foundry) and Saticoy Lemon (lemon packing house).
The City is required to implement a Pretreatment Program and to comply with
requirements for operation and maintenance of the sewer collection system. The City
has been implementing an industrial wastewater Pretreatment Program for the
SPWRF, which has been approved by the USEPA and the Regional Board.
E. Percolation Ponds
i. The three percolation ponds were built on approximately 34 acres of agriculture
land (Figure 4) and are located along Todd Lane in the Santa Clara-Santa Paula
Groundwater Basin area.
ii. The Regional Board classified the discharge to the percolation pond as a
discharge of treated wastewater to land that is subject to WDRs.
iii. A hydrologic model completed by the City in 2008 indicated that the percolation
pond have a maximum discharge capacity of 2.6 MGD during wet years.
Therefore, the allowable discharge of the SPWRF was reduced from 8 MGD to
2.6 MGD in Order No. R4-2010-0074 (amending Order No. R4-2007-0028).
GROUNDWATER DEPTH AND MONITORING WELLS
12. Depth to groundwater within the shallow aquifer at the site ranges from approximately 15 to
49 feet below ground surface. Groundwater gradients generally appear to parallel the ground
surface, gently sloping downward to the southwest. During wet years, groundwater may rise
to within 1 Oto 11 feet below ground surface in the area along the Santa Clara River.
13. The City owns and currently samples eight (8)

===PLANNED CHANGES===

