wastewater, the rest (82.7%) was from commercial/residential sources.
2.1.2. The treatment system at JWPCP consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation, pure oxygen activated sludge reactors, secondary clarification, and
chlorination (Attachment C). Effluent from the primary sedimentation tanks is
biologically treated in pure oxygen activated sludge reactors. The secondary treated
effluent is then clarified, chlorinated and pumped into the outfall manifold. The
secondary treated effluent from JWPCP is routinely discharged through Discharge
Points 001 and 002 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States, at White
Point within the Palos Verdes Peninsula Sub-Watershed that is part of the Santa
Monica Bay Watershed.
Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment processes include grit, primary
screenings, primary biosolids and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge,
digested sludge screenings and digester cleaning solids. The fine solids (grit,
primary screenings, digested sludge screenings, digester cleaning solids) which are
primarily inorganic materials are hauled away to a landfill. The remaining solid
fractions (primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge) are
anaerobically digested on-site. The digested solids are screened and dewatered
using scroll centrifuges. JWPCP generates approximately 98,000 dry metric tons of
Class B biosolids per year. The biosolids are hauled off-site for use in composting
and land application, combined with municipal solid waste for co-disposal, or
processed into a renewable fuel for cement kilns.
Methane gas generated in the anaerobic digestion process is used to produce power
and digester heating steam in a total energy facility that utilizes gas turbines and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 5/25/2023 F-5
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023-0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
waste-heat recovery steam generators. The on-site generation of electricity permits
the JWPCP to produce its own electricity.
Each treatment process is described in more detail below:
a. Primary Treatment: Primary treatment begins with two inlet works that receive
flow from three influent sewers. Inlet Works No. 1 receives approximately 70% of
the total JWPCP flow and Inlet Works No. 2 receives the remaining 30%. Six bar
screens for Inlet Works No. 1 and three bar screens for Inlet Works No. 2 remove
solids by capturing large debris through bars spaced approximately 1 inch apart.
Captured debris is continuously removed from each bar screen, by five equally
spaced rakes, and deposited into a trough. The trough delivers the debris to one
of two dewatering compactors. Water removed in the compactors is returned to
the treatment process upstream of the bar screens while the dewatered debris is
disposed of in a landfill. Wastewater effluent from the bar screens is directed to
one of six grit chambers, which remove heavy inorganic material. Grit slurry is
pumped from the chambers and dewatered with the use of cyclones and
clarifiers. The water is returned to the inlet of the grit chambers and the
dewatered grit is disposed of in a landfill. Wastewater from the grit chambers is
then directed to the sedimentation tanks for settleable and floatable solids
removal. The JWPCP has 52 primary sedimentation tanks arranged into three
sedimentation tank batteries. The wastewater enters each tank through three
inlet gates with diffusers. Flow is reduced from roughly 3 feet per second to 3
feet per minute to allow suspended solids to settle. Biosolids are directed
through draw off lines and pumped to raw sludge transfer stations before transfer
to anaerobic digesters. Floatable solids are pushed to the effluent end of the
tank where they are pulled up into a skimmings trough, then conveyed to one of
four skimmings wet wells. Ultimately the skimmings are directed to one of 24
circular anaerobic digesters, each with a volume of approximately 500,000 cubic
feet, for final processing. Anaerobic digestion of the biosolids reduces the
concentration of pathogens, offensive odors, and the overall amount of solids to
be dewatered. It also produces methane as a by-product, which is used to power
the JWPCP.
b. Secondary Treatment: A secondary influent pumping station pumps primary
effluent to the secondary treatment facilities. Eight biological reactors, each with
a design capacity of 50 MGD, convert finely divided and dissolved organic matter
that passes through primary treatment into settleable solids that are removed by
final clarification. Each reactor is subdivided into four stages, each stage with
three aerators/mixers to facilitate oxygen dissolution and mixing. The first stage
of the reactors is operated as an anaerobic selector, with limited exposure to
oxygen to suppress the growth of certain organisms in the activated sludge. In
the following three stages, the activated sludge consumes organic matter in the
mixed liquor and produces more organisms. The fourth stage of some of the
reactors also functions as a pH adjustment stage. The reactors are covered to
retain the high purity oxygen gas introduced into the system and permit a high
degree of oxygen utilization by the activated sludge.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 5/25/2023 F-6
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023-0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
After passing through the biological reactors, wastewater flows into the final
clarifiers to separate the activated sludge solids from the biological reactor’s
mixed liquor. Each reactor has a bank of 26 sedimentation tanks where floatable
material is skimmed off the top, collected, and directed to a sewer line. Solids
that settle to the bottom are scraped to two hoppers where the sludge is collected
and drawn off to return sludge pumping stations. There is one pumping station
per reactor, each consisting of three pumps, that pumps activated sludge to the
inlet of the reactors to keep an effective concentration of microorganisms in the
reactors. However, a portion of the activated sludge is wasted from the
reactor/clarifier system to maintain the desired population of microorganisms in
the reactors.
A dissolved air flotation thickening system is used to concentrate the waste
activated biosolids produced in secondary treatment. Solids on the surface of
the flotation tank are collected using skimmers and then pumped to the
anaerobic digestion system, located with the primary treatment facilities. The
clarified effluent is returned to the secondary influent force main. Secondary
effluent is disinfected using a bleach solution to achieve a chlorine residual of
approximately 1-2 mg/L and then is either pumped or gravity fed, depending on
tidal conditions, to the Pacific Ocean.
c. Solids Processing: Discharge from the 24 circular digesters is diverted into three
pump station wet wells, one of which is the central wet well for transfer of
digested biosolids to solids processing. The central wet well consists of three
individual structures, each with a capacity of 822,800 gallons and equipped with
two gas blowers that pump digester gas into the wet well to provide mixing.
Biosolids are pumped using three digested sludge pumps through rotary screens
and into centrifuge feed pumping station wet wells, housing a total of five pumps.
The pumps are used to deliver digested sludge to the centrifuges, which are
used to separate water from the suspended solids. There are currently 31 low-
speed and 8 high-speed centrifuges. The high-speed centrifuges are capable of
increasing gravity up to a factor of 3,000, while the low-speed centrifuges
increase gravity by a factor of approximately 1,000. Diluted cationic polymer is
used in the process to enhance flocculation. The dewatered cake (biosolids)
drops through a hopper below each elevated centrifuge onto a conveyor belt,
while the waste concentrate is collected through a second hopper into a central
drainage system. Eighteen storage silos, each of which can hold up to 510 tons,
store the biosolids prior to conveyance to truck loading stations. Centrate from
the centrifuges is collected and gravity flows to the Centrate Treatment System
Facility, where solids are concentrated using dissolved air flotation. The clarified
effluent from the Centrate Treatment Facility discharges to a wet well, where it
flows by gravity to mix with the secondary effluent after the secondary influent
pump station prior to entering the biological reactors.
d. Food Waste Slurry System: On July 16, 2021, the Discharger submitted a letter
to the Los Angeles Water Board indicating that operation of the Food Waste
Receiving and Co-Digestion System at JWPCP has commenced and standard
operating procedures are in place. Separated food waste is unloaded at the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 5/25/2023 F-7
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023-0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
Puente Hills Materials Recovery Facility located in the City of Industry, California.
The food waste is prescreened to remove large inert contaminants. The food
waste is then loaded into a food waste slurry processor through a feeder/hopper.
During processing, inorganic inert contaminants are separated from the food
waste slurry. The inert contaminants are stored in bins and disposed as refuse.
The main inert contaminants are plastic bags, containers, glass and metals. The
food waste slurry is stored in tanks at the Material Recovery Facility. The solid
food waste slurry is then transported to the JWPCP digestors where it is
anaerobically digested, and liquid food waste slurry is added to the headworks.
e. Power Generation: The JWPCP is self-reliant with respect to power generation.
All the power and most of the heating steam requirements for the JWPCP are
provided by three digester gas fired turbines, each equipped with a 9.9 MW
electric generator, and one steam turbine. Utility power is available whenever the
on-site power facility is out of service.
Digester gas must be dewatered and scrubbed of particulate matter prior to
combustion. Digester gas is first scrubbed, using two Venturi scrubbers and non-
potable water, and particulate matter is regularly blown down from the scrubber
storage tanks. Two mist eliminators downstream of the Venturi scrubbers remove
water droplets from the gas stream, and the digester gas is then further treated
using two chillers that condense water vapor. From there, digester gas is directed
to a surge tank prior to compression. Natural gas is used to boost the heat input
during periods of low digester gas production. Three compressors are used to
compress the digester gas, or a mixture of digester gas and natural gas, from
approximately 10 inches of water column to approximately 350 pounds per
square inch (psig). Prior to combustion in the gas turbine, the high-pressure
digester gas is chilled to 40 degrees Fahrenheit, using a refrigeration system, to
remove any remaining water vapor. Typically, only two gas turbines are in
operation while one acts as a standby. During periods when the gas turbines are
not operational, digester gas can be burned at two different flare stations, with
the South Flare Station consisting of five waste gas flares and the North Flare
Station consisting of seven waste gas flares. Waste heat from the gas turbine
exhaust is used to produce steam, using heat recovery steam generators, and
directed to a steam turbine for power production and digester heating steam. The
gas turbines are operated without waste heat recovery. Digester heating steam is
provided by means of four digester gas-fired boilers, along with an additional
natural gas-fired boiler for emergencies. These boilers both supplement and
serve as a backup to the waste heat steam generation.
2.1.3. Recycled Water: Approximately 20 MGD of JWPCP effluent is recycled for
internal uses within the treatment processes and for maintenance. However, due to
the plant's influent sources, salt levels are too high for reuse in irrigation for most
industrial processes. More importantly, JWPCP serves a critical role in facilitating
regional water reclamation by handling waste streams (e.g., solids and concentrates
from reverse osmosis systems) from local and the upstream water recycling facilities
(Whittier Narrows, San Jose Creek, Pomona, Los Coyotes and Long Beach). The
recycled water from the upstream water reclamation plants is individually permitted.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 5/25/2023 F-8
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023-0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053813
The Metropolitan Water District (MWD) and the Discharger have been developing
Pure Water Southern California since 2010. Pure Water Southern California
provides an opportunity to develop a local and sustainable water supply for Los
Angeles and Orange Counties, with the objective of providing water to replenish the
Central, West Coast, Main San Gabriel, and Orange County Groundwater Basins.
MWD and the Discharger plan to construct a new Advanced Water Treatment
Facility (AWTF) including membrane bioreactors, reverse osmosis, and
ultraviolet/advanced oxidation processes at the JWPCP to ultimately produce 150
MGD or 168,000 acre-feet per year (AFY) of purified water for beneficial reuse
including replenishing groundwater basis, industrial uses, and eventually direct
potable reuse.
The first step towards developing this project was pilot testing conducted between
2010 and 2012, which demonstrated that it is technically feasible for the secondary
effluent from JWPCP to be advanced treated to meet the water quality required for
groundwater recharge. In September 2019, the Sanitation Districts and the MWD
completed construction of a 0.5 MGD advanced treatment demonstration plant to
demonstrate the effectiveness of various treatment strategies. A Notice of
Preparation for the full-scale system was distributed in September 2022 and the final
Environmental Impact Report is expected to be complete in early 2024. Once
approved, design and construction will follow with an estimated completion date of
2032 to produce up to 100 MGD purified water and 2036 to produce up to 150 MGD
purified water.
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

