The Wastewater System is capable of treating a 500,000 gallons per day to a
Secondary treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment
technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary Grinder followed by Coarse Screen 1" Rack
Treatment Headworks capacity (gpd): 500,000
Primary Clarifier
Primary Treatment
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 500,000
Synthetic Media Trickling Filter Followed by Secondary
Secondary Treatment Clarifier
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 500,000
N/A
Tertiary Treatment
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): N/A
N/A
Disinfection
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): N/A
Wastewater Disposal Percolation Pond
Method Disposal capacity (gpd): 500,000
Scum pit is backfilled from anaerobic digester, and
vaccumed and hauled off weekly. Quarterly, sludge is
hauled directly from the digester.
Biosolids/Sludge
Historically, sludge was dried in on-site sludge drying beds
Production and
and then the dried biosolids word disced into fields located
Handling
within Atascadero State Hospital Property. Because the
drying beds are unlined, use of the drying beds is no
longer allowed. Additionally, because disposal of biosolids
to land is inconsistent with Part 503 of the Federal Code of
- 2 -
Department of State Hospitals - Atascadero October 4, 2024
Regulations for biosolids disposal, this practice is no
longer allowed.
Annual production of biosolids: Approx. 6 tons
Biosolids/sludge are hauled offsite by Amerigard, LLC
No, wastewater system does
Non-potable recycled
NOT produce non-potable
water produced onsite:
recycled water
Recycled water usage
N/A
Non-Potable Recycled areas:
Water
No, this wastewater system is
Enrolled in WQ 2016-
NOT enrolled in WQ 2016-
0068-DDW:
0068-DDW
Recycled water production
N/A
volume (gpd):
3. Wastewater System Specific Requirements and Limitations
California Department of State Hospitals must operate the Wastewater System in
accordance with the General Permit and this notice of applicability. California
Department of State Hospitals must comply with the wastewater specific limitations
specified in Table 4 through Table 7.
Flow limitations are shown in Table 4.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

