operator is Tiffany Twisselmann, Grade 2, License Number 43086.
The Wastewater System is designed to treat 1,200,000 gpd (3,700,000 peak hourly) to
a secondary treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment
technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Emergency Unlined Emergency Pond, Infiltration Basin D, and
Storage/Overflow Controlled Flood Disposal Fields 1 and 2.
The headworks consists of a bar screen and influent
channels with two grinders, then a vortex grit chamber to
Headworks/Preliminary
settle out large inorganic solids from the influent flow.
Treatment
Headworks capacity (gpd): 4.0 million gpd (MGD) peak
hour
Six facultative treatment ponds (Ponds 1 to 6) with surface
aerators, followed by two polishing ponds (Ponds 7 and 8)
function to remove Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD )
5
and Total Suspended Solids (TSS) from the influent
Primary and
wastewater. The ponds are set up as two parallel trains of
Secondary Treatment
four ponds in series, with each train treating about half of
the flow.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 1,200,000 average
daily flow
Treated effluent is discharged to one of three 7-acre
infiltration basins (Basin A, Basin B, and Basin C). An
infiltration study at the site suggests long-term infiltration
Wastewater Disposal rates to be on the order of 1.5 feet per day (3,500,000 gpd
Method (Infiltration per basin). When first-encountered groundwater elevations
Basins) rise in the area, disposal capacity can significantly
decrease, as reported in 2024 monitoring reports.
Maximum estimated maximum disposal capacity (gpd):
3,500,000 (in dry years)
Treated effluent may be discharged into a temporary
infiltration basin (Basin D). Gonzales may only discharge
Emergency
to the basin when all three infiltration basins are full and
Wastewater Disposal
Gonzales cannot conduct its regular maintenance (tractor
(Infiltration Basin and
ripping) in the three basins. The temporary basin has a 5-
Controlled Flood
acre footprint and is located on Gonzales’ property where
Disposal Fields)
the future industrial wastewater treatment will be
constructed.
Gonzales Wastewater Treatment Plant
Attachment 1 - 3 - August 1, 2025
Treated effluent may also be disposed from Basin A to the
temporary emergency controlled flood field 1 which is
directly east of the current WWTP and field 2 which is to
the east of basin D. These fields result in a combined total
of 8 acres on city-owned property. This discharge is only to
occur with Central Coast Water Board staff approval for
specific calendar dates.
Gonzales must monitor and report on disposal to the
infiltration basins and emergency controlled flood disposal
fields in compliance with Monitoring and Reporting
Program R3-2025-0056 Section V.
Biosolids/Sludge Gonzales will periodically hire a third party to dredge and
Production and dispose of accumulated sludge and debris in the treatment
Handling ponds.
A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3,
which were reported in Gonzales' quarterly monitoring reports. The Central Coast
Water Board used reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

