El Porvenir WWTF
According to the 2009 RWD, upgrades at the WWTF, completed in 2007, included reconfiguring
one of the percolation/evaporation ponds to create four ponds (two aerated ponds and two
settling ponds). The four ponds were lined with a single layer 36-mil geomembrane liner. After
the reconfiguration, the remaining existing percolation/evaporation pond was designated as an
unlined disposal pond. In 2012 the disposal pond was divided in half by an internal berm to allow
for better management and maintenance of the pond. Due to low flows at the WWTF, effluent is
discharged to the disposal ponds only once or twice a month causing continuous wetting and
drying cycles. In addition, effluent flows to the disposal ponds are periodically switched to allow
cycling between ponds to allow for maintenance.
After changes to the WWTF in 2007, the disposal capacity of the system was reduced to about
44,000 gpd. However, estimated average daily flows for the WWTF are well below the capacity
of the system at about 13,700 gpd. An effluent sample collected during the inspection on
14 November 2018 reported a biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 33 mg/L, electrical
conductivity of 1,100 umhos/cm, total dissolved solids of 640 mg/L, and total nitrogen of 55 mg/L
(nitrates [as N] of 0.15 mg/L, total Kjeldahl nitrogen of 55 mg/L).
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
Water for the community is surface water from the California Aqueduct supplied by Westlands
Water District. There is one community well (Well No.1). However, Well No. 1 has been
inactive for several years. The nearest portion of the WWTF to Well No.1 and the California
Aqueduct are approximately 800 feet and 1.5 miles, respectively. These distances meet the
setback requirements for impoundment of undisinfected secondary recycled water from
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks of the General Order.
Based on recent United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) soil surveys, percolation rates
for surface soils in the area of the WWTF are around 105 minutes per inch (min/in). According to
Table 5: Minimum Depth to Groundwater and Minimum Soil Depth from the Bottom of the
Dispersal System, in the General Order, the minimum depth to groundwater requirement for
percolation rates between 30 min/in and 120 min/in is 5 feet below surface grade (bsg).
Depth-to-groundwater in the area is greater than 400 feet bsg, based on data from Department of
Water Resource (DWR) maps of the area.
Current flows at the WWTF are estimated at about 13,700 gpd (based on 56 connections and an
estimated population of 2.5 persons per dwelling unit). According to the Discharger, due to limits
on water service for the community, there is no expectation that flows to the WWTF will increase in
the near future. In accordance with the requirements in the General Order, discharges with flow
rates less than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

