constructed at the facility.
The Discharger currently has an average daily discharge of 9,000 gpd, of domestic wastewater to a
septic tank effluent pump (STEP) system for wastewater collection. The community system consists of
individual septic tanks with pump chambers and submersible pumps discharging to a dosing tank and
then to one or both of two common leachfields, with a third leachfield proposed to be brought online in
the near future.
This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section
15301 which applies to ongoing or existing projects
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the terms and
conditions of this NOA and the General Order 2014-0153-DWQ-R5253, with all attachments.
The Discharger will phase in wastewater treatment expansion as the influent flow increases during build
out. The initial Phase l, as it exists today, consists of subsurface disposal from individual septic tanks to
two community leachfields. However, due to shallow groundwater and poor soil conditions Phase ll
(discharge > 33,000 gpd) purposes the installation of a recirculating sand filter (or equivalent) between
the septic tanks and leachfields, and Phase lll (discharge > 66,000 gpd) will involve the construction of
an advanced secondary package treatment plant with sufficient effluent quality to be used as reclaimed
water for possible golf course irrigation.
The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements form Table 3, for which the
Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic Flowing Ephemeral Stream Property Lake or
Well Stream a Drainage b Line Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit, 150 ft. y 50 ft. C 50 ft. 5 ft. c, z N/A
Treatment System,
or Collection System e
Leach Field f 100 ft. o, c 100 ft. c 50 ft. 5 ft. c N/A
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water elevation and
indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character, vegetation type, presence of litter or debris, or
other appropriate means.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow-melt and does
not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface water. The drainage shall
be measured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark (described in “a” above). Irrigation canals
are not considered ephemeral streams drainage features. The ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging
surface water to groundwater) at the proposed wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K-1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment located below
ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
Ivan Gossage - 3 - 17 November 2017
Gold Mtn. CSD
f Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
o California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site-specific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an increased
setback. See discussion in Well Standards.
y Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.6.
z Collection system to property line setback is not applicable.
Failure to comply with the requirements in the documents could result in an enforcement action as
authorized by provisions of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than those described in
this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that described in this NOA, you
must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new operation.
The required annual fee specified in the annual billing from the State Water Board shall be paid until this
NOA is officially terminated. You must notify this office in writing if the discharge regulated by the
General Order ceases, so that we may terminate coverage and avoid unnecessary billing.
The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory documents,
MRPs, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be converted to a
searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than
50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov.
Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate regional
water board office, in this case 364 Knollcrest Drive, Suite 205, Redding, CA 96002.
To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following information block should
be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office:
Program: Non-15 WDID: 5A321021001
Facility Name: Gold Mountain CSD Order: 2014-0153-DWQ-R5253
Please note that WDRs Order 96-263 is proposed to be rescinded at the 1/2 February 2018
meeting of the Central Valley Water Board. Upon rescission of your individual WDRs, coverage for
your facility under the General Order shall become applicable subject to this Notice of Applicability.
If you have any questions regarding submitting an updated report of waste discharge, making changes to
your permitted operations, compliance or enforcement please contact Ron S. Falkowski at (530) 224-
3227, ron.falkowski@waterboards.ca.gov, or the footer address.
Original signed by Bryan Smith
(for) PAMELA C. CREEDON
Executive Officer
RSF: db
Attachments: Attachment A – Site Location Map
Attachment B – Facility Map
Technical Memorandum
MRP Order 2014-0153-R5253
cc (w/o enc.): Tim O’Brien, State Water Board, Sacramento
Plumas County Environmental Health Department, Quincy
Patrick Pulupa, SWRCB, Office of Chief Counsel, Sacramento
ORDER R5-2014-0153-R5253
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
PLUMAS COUNTY
ATTACHMENT A - LOCATION MAP
N
PROJECT LOCATION
LOCATION MAP
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
MAP DATA: © 2016 GOOGLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
NO SCALE
PLUMAS COUNTY
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-R5253
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
ATTACHMENT B – FACILITY MAP
Wind Song
Leachfield
N
Proposed
expansion
Falling Waters Leachfield &
Monitoring
Leachfield
Wells
DRAWING REFERENCE: FACILITY MAP
GOOGLE EARTH
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
MAP DATA: © 2016 GOOGLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
NO SCALE
PLUMAS COUNTY
TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM
TO: George Low, PG FROM: Ron Falkowski
Senior Engineering Geologist Engineering Geologist
DATE: 17 November 2017 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski
SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR GOLD MOUNTAIN
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT, WDR ORDER 96-263, PLUMAS COUNTY
I have reviewed the case file for Gold Mountain Community Services District (Gold Mtn.
CSD) and completed a site inspection on 22 August 2017. The file documents and site
inspection confirms the general condition of the wastewater treatment system and
subsurface disposal fields. The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance documentation
and all treatment and collection infrastructure appears in good order.
The average daily wastewater flow is less than 9,000 gallons per day. The treatment system
has a design capacity which is well above the discharge volume required by the existing
community.
Potential Threats to Water Quality
The wastewater treatment system is located southwest of the main community of Portola.
The closest distance from the subsurface discharge fields (leachfields) to the nearest
property line is greater than 50 feet. The closest potable water well is greater than 500 feet
from the leachfields. The closest surface water is greater than 500 feet from the leachfields.
A monitoring well network was installed at the site due to high groundwater, poor soil
conditions and its proximity to Middle Fork Feather River. Completion of the Nitrate Checklist
in Attachment 1 of Order 2014-0153-DWQ indicates the following flow and rationale:
A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow generally less than 9,000 gpd.
Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.
Monitoring Requirements
To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, quarterly

===PLANNED CHANGES===

