Assistant Executive Officer - 2 - 14 February 2018
connected to an aeration package treatment plant operated by Sierra Clean Water Services.
From January 2017 through December 2017 self-monitoring reports indicate that average
wastewater discharge is about 1,000 gpd.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Facility utilizes one small package system, which consists of an aeration tank and a
clarifier, to treat domestic wastewater. The aeration tank is six feet wide, nine feet long and has
a depth of six feet. The clarifier is six feet wide, three feet long and has depth of six feet with a
bottom that tapers into a cone shape. Historically, the Facility had two aeration package plants;
however, one plant is no longer operational due to the tanks being floated out of the ground.
The package system was originally designed to operate as an activated sludge system;
however, when solids are returned from the clarifier to the aeration tank, the flow created
turbulence in the clarifier resulting in solids passing through the clarifier. According to Don
Nessl’s (Consultant) October 2017 letter, solids from the clarifier are no longer returned to the
aeration tank. An air blower is operated intermittently by a time clock to maintain dissolved
oxygen and the clarifier builds up a sludge blanket. Solids are removed from the clarifier
approximately every four to six months. According to the Consultant, the aeration tank acts as a
dissolved oxygen enhancer and retains grit but transfers putrescible solids to the clarifier.
Primary effluent is discharged into pond 1 of 4. The first pond handles all dry weather flow
through evaporation and percolation. All ponds are connected in series by a 3-inch diameter
pipe ranging from 40 to 100 feet in length. The Discharger collected an effluent sample on
15 November 2017. The analysis reported a biochemical oxygen demand result of 33 mg/L and
a total suspended solids result of 35 mg/L. The treatment system and ponds are fenced to
restrict access to the general public.
A geological report was prepared for the disposal ponds in 1978. The soil borings indicated 1.5
to 3 feet of clayey soils. Percolation rates ranged from 15 to 25 minutes per inch. The domestic
water wells serving the park are about 1,000 feet east of the ponds. This setback meets the
setback requirements for impoundment (undisinfected secondary recycled water) from
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks of the General Order. The groundwater
gradient is to the west away from the wells. The wells were reported to be fed from a deep
fracture system and not from direct, local surface percolation. As previously mentioned, the
average daily flow of wastewater is about 1,000 gpd. In accordance with the requirements of
the General Order, discharges with flow rates less than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a
nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

