quality of the waters of the state.
C. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the domestic and municipal
wastewater recycling facility. Primary and secondary treatment occurs through
mechanically cleaned bar screens, cyclonic grit chambers, primary clarifiers, fixed fine-
bubble aeration basins, and secondary clarifiers. Associated solids handling occurs
through dissolved air flotation thickeners, primary and secondary anaerobic digesters,
centrifuge dewatering units, and an odor control system. Tertiary treatment occurs
through chemical coagulation and flocculation, monomedia continuous backwash
upflow filtration, and ultraviolet disinfection and/or chlorination. Screened solids are
trucked to a landfill and dewatered sludge is trucked offsite for land application.
Recycled water that is not reused will be dechlorinated as needed and discharged to the
San Elijo Ocean Outfall. The discharge from the Facility to San Elijo Ocean Outfall is
separately regulated under Order No. R9-2005-0101 (NPDES CA0107981).
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the facility. Attachment B provides a
flow schematic of the facility.
D. Legal Authorities. This Order is issued pursuant to sections 13263 and 13523 of the
California Water Code. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
and a Master Reclamation Permit pursuant to Article 4, Chapter 4, Division 7 of the
Water Code.
E. Background and Rationale for Requirements. The San Diego Water Board
developed the requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Report of Waste Discharge, through monitoring and reporting programs, and other
available information. The Information Sheet (Attachment D), which contains
background information and rationale for Order requirements, is hereby incorporated
Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/14/2010) 5
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY
into this Order and constitutes part of the Findings for this Order. Attachments A through
E are also incorporated into this Order.
F. California Environmental Quality Act. This project involves requirements for existing
waste treatment facilities. As such, this project is categorically exempt from the
requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) as provided by
Section 15301, and in compliance with Section 15300.2, of California Code of
Regulations Title 14. In addition the Discharger certified a final Environmental Impact
Report for this project in June 1992 in accordance with the CEQA (Public Resources
Code section 21000, et seq.). The project identified no significant groundwater impact.
G. Technology-based

===PLANNED CHANGES===

