14. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal berms
that separate ponds or control the flow of water within the pond) shall be
designed and constructed under the supervision of a California Registered Civil
Engineer.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0001 18
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
15. The Discharger shall monitor sludge accumulation in the on-site disposal
ponds at least once every five years, beginning in 2020, and shall periodically
remove sludge as necessary to maintain adequate storage capacity.
Specifically, if the estimated volume of sludge in an on-site disposal pond
exceeds five percent of the permitted disposal ponds’ capacity, the Discharger
shall complete sludge cleanout within 12 months after the date of the estimate.
16. The on-site disposal ponds must be operated in accordance with approved
Standard Operating Procedures for Pond Maintenance and Monitoring. The
following maintenance requirements apply, as adapted from the approved
5 January 2015 Standard Operating Procedures for Pond Maintenance and
Monitoring (Maintenance Plan), unless the Discharger submits, and the
Executive Officer approves, a revised Maintenance Plan:
a. Totals of pond volume, pond capacity in use, and pond capacity available
shall be reported in the quarterly self-monitoring report.
b. Ponds shall be operated one at a time. When the pond in service reaches
100 percent freeboard capacity, it shall be taken offline and isolated to
collect percolation and evaporation data. A new pond shall be selected for
all effluent.
c. The pond taken offline to collect percolation and evaporation data shall be
isolated and have a measuring stick implanted to record level. When that
pond completely empties, the data shall be used to calculate the
percolation and evaporation rates of the pond. Percolation and
evaporation rate data shall be submitted in the quarterly self-monitoring
report, including submittal of supporting calculations.
d. When a pond reaches a percolation rate of less than 1.5 inches/day, it
shall be taken out of service, dried, and disked. If the same pond fails to
achieve a percolation rate of 1.5 inches/day or greater the next time it is
isolated and monitored, the pond shall be taken out of service for scraping
and ripping.
e. The Discharger shall, as a part of its budget process, provide sufficient
funding to perform disposal pond monitoring and maintenance as
required.
E. Groundwater Limitations
Release of waste constituents from any portion of the Facility, including but not
limited to any treatment, storage, or disposal component associated with the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0001 19
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
discharge of treated wastewater from the Facility, shall not cause or contribute to
groundwater:
1. Containing constituent concentrations in excess of the concentrations specified
below or in excess of natural background quality, whichever is greater:
a. Nitrate (as nitrogen) of 10 mg/L.
b. For constituents identified in Title 22, the MCLs quantified therein.
2. Containing taste or odor-producing constituents, toxic substances, or any other
constituents in concentrations that cause nuisance or adversely affect
beneficial uses.
F. Solids Disposal Specifications
For the purposes of this Order, “sludge” means the solid, semisolid, and liquid
residues removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment
processes; “solid waste” refers to grit and screenings generated during preliminary
treatment; “residual sludge” means sludge that will not be subject to further
treatment at the Facility; and “biosolids” refers to sludge that has been treated and
tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially used as a soil amendment for
agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation activities pursuant to
federal and state regulations.
1. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, ponds, and
clarifiers as needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
2. Any handling and storage of residual sludge, solid waste, and biosolids at the
Facility shall be temporary (i.e., no longer than two years) and controlled and
contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation and precludes
infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or concentration that will
violate the groundwater limitations of this Order.
3. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner
approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for
further treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites (i.e., landfills, wastewater
treatment facilities, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in
accordance with valid waste discharge requirements issued by a regional water
board will satisfy this specification.
4. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid WDRs issued by
a Regional Water Quality Control Board or the State Water Board except in
cases where a local (e.g., county) program has been authorized by a regional
water board. In most cases, this will mean the General Biosolids Order (State
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0001 20
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
Water Board Water Quality Order 2004-0012-DWQ, General Waste Discharge
Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil
Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land Reclamation
Activities). For a biosolids use project to be covered by Order 2004-0012-
DWQ, the Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a Notice
of Applicability for each project.
5. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self-implementing federal
regulations of 40 C.F.R. part 503, which are subject to USEPA enforcement,
not the Central Valley Water Board. If during the life of this Order, the State
accepts primacy for implementation of part 503, the Central Valley Water
Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
6. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported in
writing to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
G. Pretreatment Provisions
1. The Discharger shall implement the necessary legal authorities, programs, and
controls to ensure that the following wastes are not introduced to the treatment
system:
a. Wastes which create a fire or explosion hazard in the wastewater
collection system or treatment works;
b. Wastes which will cause corrosive structural damage to treatment works;
c. Solid or viscous wastes in amounts which cause obstruction to flow in
sewers, or which cause other interference with proper operation or
treatment works;
d. Any waste, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.), released
in such volume or strength as to cause inhibition or disruption in the
treatment works, and subsequent treatment process upset and/or loss of
treatment efficiency;
e. Heat in amounts that inhibit or disrupt biological activity in the treatment
works unless the treatment works is designed to accommodate such heat;
f. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through; and
g. Any trucked or hauled wastewater or septage, except at points
predesignated by the Discharger and subject to above conditions.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0001 21
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
2. The Discharger shall implement the legal authorities, programs, and control
necessary to ensure that industrial discharges do not introduce pollutants into
the sewerage system that, either alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
a. Flow through the system to the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

