Pajaro County Sanitation District, and the Salsipuedes Sanitary District.
I
12. The WWTF's treatment processes include screening, pre-aerationlgrit removal,
primary sedimentation, biological tower trickling filters, solids contact stabilization
(activated sludge), and secondary clarification.
13.The WWTF's design secondary wastewater treatment capacity is 12.0 million
gallons per day (rngd) average dry weather flow and 38.2 rngd peak wet weather
flow. The Supplier treats municipal wastewater to secondary standards and
discharges the effluent into Monterey Bay through a 7,350 foot outfallldiffuser
system. In 2007, flow through the WWTF averaged 6.20 mgd.
14. Disinfected tertiary treated recycled water. To comply with treatment standards in
CCR, Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, Article 3, §60304(a), the Supplier proposes to
treat secondary effluent from the WWTF to tertiary standards in the new Recycling
Plant. The Recycling Plant's treatment processes include coagulation-flocculation-
sedimentation, cloth media filtration, and ~~ltravioldeits infection.
15.The Recycling Plant's design capacity is 7.7 mgd, and will produce up to 7.0 rngd of
recycled water to provide 4,000 AFY to the Distributor. Future plant improvements
will increase production to 11.6 mgd.
16. Distribution for irrigation. The Distributor will provide recycled water to agricultural
users to irrigate up to 238 properties on 9,500 acres through the Distribution System,
which comprises 31 miles of pipeline. The recycled water use areas primarily overlie
alluvial soils consisting of sands, gravels, and clays. The Aromas Sands, the main
water-bearing zone, underlies the alluvial deposits. The maximum flow through the
Distribution System will be 50,000 gallons per minute (gpm). Attachment A depicts
the use areas and the Distribution System.
17. Recycled water limitations. This Permit establishes recycled water limitations that
require the Distributor to blend freshwater with the recycled water to reduce
pollutants to levels that ensure the irrigation water complies with the Basin Plan's
water quality objectives, including TDS, nitrate, and chloride.
@
Master Reclamation Permit December 5,2008
18. Engineering report. In September 2007, in accordance with CCR Title 22, Division
4, Chapter 3, Article 7, § 60323, the Supplier and Distributor submitted the final Title
22 Engineering Report for the Recycling Project to the Water Board's Executive
Officer. A properly qualified engineer registered in California and experienced in
wastewater treatment systems prepared the Engineering Report in accordance with
the California's Department of Public Health's (DPH) March 2001 Guidelines for the
Preparation of an Engineering Reporf for the Production, Distribution and Use of
Recycled Water. The Engineering Report clearly describes the means to comply
with the Title 22 Water Recycling Criteria (CCR Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3) and
includes a contingency plan, which will ensure that the Supplier and Distributor will
deliver no untreated or inadequately-treated wastewater to the use areas.
Attachment B provides the Recycling Plant process flow chart.
19.W ith comments, DPH approved the Engineering Report on February 25, 2008. The
Supplier and Distl-ibutor will respond to the comments before distributing recycled
water to the use areas.
20. Report of Waste Discharge. The Supplier and Distributor submitted a report of waste
discharge for the Recycling Plant on April I,2 008.
21. Master reclamation permit. In accordance with CWC 513523.1 and other CWC
and CCR Title 22 sections, this Master Reclamation Permit specifies water recycling
requirements, waste discharge requirements, and water reclamation requirements to
ensure the Supplier produces and the Distributor uses the recycled water in a
manner protective of the public's health and the beneficial uses of groundwaters and
surface waters. The Board has consulted with DPH regarding the regulation of this
discharge.
22. Water User's Handbook. To ensure that recycled water users comply with this
Master Reclamation Permit (Permit), ,the Distributor developed and adopted Rules
and Regulations and the Water User's Handbook. The Distributor incorporated the
Rules and Regulations into the Water User's Handbook.
23. Surface waters beneficial uses. The Pajaro Estuary and the Watsonville Slough and
its tributaries are the surface waters nearest the use areas. The Basin Plan
designates existing and anticipated beneficial uses as follows:
a Water Contact Recreation;
b Non-Contact Water Recreation;
c. Wildlife Habitat;
d. Cold Freshwater Habitat;
e. Warm Freshwater Habitat;
f. Migration of Aquatic Organisms; and
g. Commercial and Sport Fishing.
'P
Iblaster Reclamation Perm1 December 5,2008
24. The Basin Plan also designates the shellfish harvesting beneficial use for the Pajaro
River Estuary.
25. Compliance with the Permit will protect the beneficial uses of the Pajaro estuary and
Watsonville Slough and its tributaries.
26,Antidegradation policy. State Water Board Resolution No. 68-1 6 Statement of
Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality of Waters in California (Resolution
No. 68-16 ) requires Regional Water Boards, in regulating the discharge of waste, to
maintain high quality waters of the State until it is demonstrated that any change in
quality will be consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not
unreasonably affect beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality less than that
described in a Regional Water Board's policies (e.g., quality that exceeds applicable
water quality standards). Resolution No. 68-16 also states, in part:
Any activity which produces or may produce a waste or increased volume or
concentration of waste and which discharges or proposes to discharge to
existing high quality waters will be required to meet waste discharge
requirements which will result in best practicable treatment and control of the
discharge necessary to assure that (a) a pollution or nuisance will not occur
and (b) the highest water quality consistent with maximum benefit to the
people of the State will be maintained.
The discharges regulated by this Order are subject to waste discharge requirements
that will result in best practicable treatment or control, the prevention of pollution and
nuisance, and maintenance of the highest water quality consistent with maximum
benefit to the people of the State.
27.TMDL. Clean Water Act (CWA) §303(d) requires states to identify and list water
bodies that do not meet water quality standards for specific pollutants and to
establish Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL) for listed water bodies.
28.The Pajaro River's 303(d) listed pollutants include sediment, nitrate, and fecal
coliform. The sediment TMDL received final approval on November 27,2006, and
the nitrate TNlDL on November 13, 2006. Water Board staff are developing the fecal
coliform TMDL for the Pajaro River. The Watsonville Slough TMDL for pathogens
received final approval on November 20, 2006, and the pesticide TMDL is in
development.
29. In accordance with the February 24,2004, State Water Resources Control Board
memorandum discussing the incidental runoff of recycled water, potential pollutants
in the recycled water will not likely contribute significantly to the pollutant loads in the
surface waters mentioned above because only incidental runoff of irrigation water
will occur.
@
Master Reclamation Permit December 5. 2008
'
30. Monitoring and Reporting Program. Attached Monitoring and Reporting Program
(MRP) No. R3-2008-0039 is part of the Permit. The MRP requires routine monitoring
to verify compliance with the Permit and to protect the beneficial uses of nearby
surface waters and groundwaters underlying the use areas.
31. CEQA. These waste discharge requirements are an action to maintain, restore,
enhance or protect the natural environment and are exempt from the provisions of
the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code, Section 21000, et
seq.) in accordance with CCR Title 14, Chapter 3, §5I3 08.
32. Stormwater. The Supplier will route stormwater at the Recycling Plant to the
WWTF's headworks for treatment. Therefore, the Supplier need not enroll under the
State Water Resources Control Board's General Industrial Activities Storm Water
Permit.
33. Conditional Waiver for Irrigated Lands. The Conditional Waiver of Waste
Discharge Requirements for Discharges from lrrigated Lands requires all commercial
irrigated farming operations in the Central Coast Region to prepare Farm Water
Quality Management Plans. Accordingly, the Distributor manages a Nitrate
Management Program (NMP), which helps farmers use the recycled water's nitrogen
to optimize its application to crop needs. The NMP complies with the requirements of
the agricultural waiver program.
34. In accordance with Water Code section 13263(g), no discharge into waters of the
state, whether or not the discharge is made pursuant to waste discharge
requirements, shall create a vested right to discharge. All discharges of waste into
waters of the state are privileges, not rights.
35. On April 11, 2008, the Board notified the Supplier, Distributor, and other interested
parties of its intent to prescribe water reclamation requirements for the Facility and
associated reuse areas. In addition, the Water Board provided them with an
opportunity for a public hearing and to submit their written views and recom-
mendations.
36.The Board, at a public meeting held on December 5, 2008, heard and considered all
comments pertaining to the discharge and found this Order consistent with the above
findings.
37.Any person affected by this action of the Board may petition the State Water Board
to review the action in accordance with Section 13320 of the California Water Code
and Title 23 of the California Code of Regulations, Section 2050. The State Water
Board must receive the petition within 30 days of the date of adoption of this Order.
Copies of the law and regulations applicable to filing petitions will be provided upon
request.
@
@
Master Reclamation Per December 5,2008
110.R 3-2008-0039
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, pursuant to authority in Sections 13263 and 13523.1 of the
California Water Code that Supplier, its agents, successors, and assigns, may produce
reclaimed wastewater from the Recycled Water Facility for distribution by the Distributor,
and that Distributor, its agents, successors, and assigns, may distribute reclaimed
wastewater for irrigation providing they comply with the following:
The following footnotes provide the sources of requirements. Unless otherwise noted,
BPJ is the source of requirements without footnotes. Footnotes are as follows:
40CFR Title 40 Code of Federal Regulations
BP Water Quality Control Plan, Central Coast Region
California DPH
DPH
T22 CCR Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3: Water Recycling Criteria
CWC California Water Code
SWRCB State Water Resources Control Board memorandum
ER Engineering Report
ROWD The Supplier and Distributor's Report of Waste Discharge
RWU Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Wastewater for Irrigation and Impoundment,
California DPH
BPJ Best Professional Judgment of Water Board Staff
A. PROHIBITIONS
I. The treatment, storage, distribution, or reuse of recycled water shall not create a
nuisance as defined in section 13050(m) of ,the California Water Code. CWC
2. No recycled water used for irrigation shall be applied during periods of rainfall or when
soils are saturated such that runoff occurs. CWC
3. Recycled water shall be confined to use areas of authorized storage and use with no
discharge to surface waters or drainages. CWC
4. No recycled water shall be discharged from the treatment facilities other than for
designated irrigation or other approved reuse applications in accordance with this
Permit.
CWC
5. The incidental discharge of recycled water to waters of the State shall not
unreasonably affect the beneficial uses of the water, and not result in an
exceedance of an applicable water quality objective in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

