1. Southern Regional Tertiary Treatment Plant (SRTTP)
The SRTTP headworks consists of the coarse bar screens, influent pump station wet-
well, flow meter, fine drum screens, grit collectors, drain pump station to receive the
SRTTP return flows, and (if necessary, to neutralize phosphorous) alum feed system. As
an added design enhancement, if the influent pump station should go down for any
reason, flow will automatically be diverted to the Lemon Grove Impoundment Basins for
containment to prevent a spill.
The effluent from the grit collectors gravity-flows into secondary treatment (sequencing
batch reactors, SBR). The SBRs operate in four different sequences or steps which are
fill, react/compressed air, settle, and decant. A methanol feed system is available to
provide supplemental carbon to the SBRs through a dedicated line at each SBR.
The SRTTP’s tertiary treatment process includes three flow equalization basins (total
storage capacity of one million gallons), filter feed pumps, disk filters, sodium
hypochlorite generation system, disinfection contact basins, and recycled water pumps
and metering facilities. The Discharger sends the disinfected tertiary-treated wastewater
into the MCBCP’s recycled water distribution system for landscape irrigation under the
Master Recycling Permit Order No. R9-2018-00231. The MCBCP has four designated
reuse sites: 11 Area Sport Activity Field – Mission hydrologic subarea (HSA) 903.10,
Horse Pasture – Mission HSA 903.10, Marine Memorial Golf Course Mission HSA
903.10, and Front Gate – Lower Ysidora HSA 902.10. The Discharger also pumps the
disinfected tertiary-treated wastewater to the Red Beach disposal area and the new
Ysidora Flats injection field to function as a seawater intrusion barrier under the Master
Recycling Permit Order No. R9-2018-0023. The Discharger also uses the tertiary-treated
wastewater in the SRTTP’s industrial/process water system.
Between the disk filters and the disinfection contact basins, the SRTTP has an overflow
weir structure that can send the filtered/unchlorinated flow to the Oceanside Ocean
Outfall Pump Station (OOOPS). However, during daily peak flow operating conditions
when effluent demands exceed the SRTTP’s discharge flow limit through the OOOPS
and when sufficient recycled water demand is not available, the overflow weir structure
sends some or all of the filtered/unchlorinated flow to Lemon Grove Impoundment
Basins. From the Lemon Grove Impoundment Basins, during daily low flow periods, the
Discharger can send the flow to the drain pump station/headworks, disk filters,
disinfection contact basins, or the overflow weir structure/OOOPS.
The Discharger pumps grit and debris from the grit collectors to the grit classifiers
located adjacent to the influent pump station. In the grit classifiers, grit and debris is
washed to remove organics and then discharged to a roll-off container for disposal in the
MCBCP Las Pulgas Landfill. The grit slurry supernatant is returned to the drain pump
station/headworks. The SRTTP’s biosolids processing facilities include a waste activated
sludge holding tank, three aerobic digesters for sludge stabilization, gravity belt thickener
for sludge thickening, centrifuges for sludge dewatering, and an onsite biosolids storage
facility. If the sludge is non-hazardous, the Discharger send the biosolids to the municipal
landfill.
1 Order No. R9-2018-0023, Master Recycling Permit for the United States Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton,
Southern Regional Tertiary Treatment Plant, San Diego County, adopted by the San Diego Water Board on
May 9, 2018.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
MARINE CORPS BASE, CAMP PENDLETON ORDER NO. R9-2019-0167
SOUTHERN REGIONAL TERTIARY TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109347
ADVANCED WATER TREATMENT PLANT AT HAYBARN CANYON
The SRTTP design capacity is 7.5 MGD. From January 2014 to June 2019, the average
influent flow to the SRTTP was 2.0 MGD and the average effluent flow from the SRTTP
to the Oceanside Ocean Outfall (OOO) was 1.6 MGD. From January 2014 to June 2019,
the Discharger sent an annual average 0.4 MGD to reuse sites for irrigation.
2. Advanced Water Treatment Plant at Haybarn Canyon (AWT)
The treatment systems for the AWT consists of liquid granulated activated carbon
(LGAC), which is currently non-operational; cartridge filters/reverse osmosis (RO), which
treats a portion of the groundwater to achieve a total dissolved solids concentration of
less than 350 milligram per liter (mg/L); and corrosion control (CCT) chemical injection
systems.
The brine pump station at the AWT sends the RO concentrate (waste brine) from the RO
trains to the OOOPS through a 16-inch diameter land outfall that runs along Vandegrift
Boulevard for approximately seven miles. The AWT also includes a 3-million-gallon
emergency Brine Storage Reservoir to be used if the Discharger is unable to send the
waste brine to the OOOPS. If waste brine is sent to the Brine Storage Reservoir, the
waste brine is later released from the Brine Storage Reservoir directly to the 16-inch
diameter land outfall, downstream from the effluent sampling point (Monitoring Location
EFF-003).
The AWT has a potable water production design capacity of 8.64 MGD which results in
less than 2 MGD of waste brine. The Discharge requested a maximum brine flow of 1.73
MGD. From January 2014 to June 2019, the average brine flow from the AWT to the
OOO ranged from 0 to 0.38 MGD. In 2018, the Discharger produced an average 4.5
MGD of potable water from the AWT.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

