of disposal with a rationale for the emergency modification.
5. Pond Systems
a. Sufficient freeboard shall be maintained at all times in ponds to provide adequate
storage capacity and prevent wastewater spills. Freeboard shall be measured
vertically from the lowest elevation of the pond berm to the pond water surface. If
freeboard is less than one foot, the discharger shall immediately implement the
contingency plan contained in the Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
(Provision E.1.a).
b. Pond systems shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate wastewater, design
seasonal precipitation, ancillary I/I, and wind driven waves. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on the following precipitation criteria:
i. If wastewater spills do not occur, existing pond systems may continue to
operate at their present size if they are covered under individual WDRs, a
general order issued by a Regional Water Board, or by WQO 97-10-DWQ.
If wastewater spills do occur, the Executive Officer may require the pond
size requirement to be consistent with the specification defined in Pond
Systems 5.b.ii (below).
ii. For new or expanding pond systems covered under this General Order,
seasonal precipitation used in the pond sizing water balance calculations
shall be based on the following:
a. The 100-year return annual total precipitation value distributed monthly
in accordance with average (mean) precipitation values. The
calculations shall demonstrate adequate capacity to maintain two feet
of freeboard in the pond(s).
b. The Executive Officer may allow a lower standard for the return annual
total precipitation value, with approval of a technical report describing
how operation of the wastewater system will not result in wastewater
spills. In no case shall the Executive Officer allow less than a 50-year
September 23, 2014
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - 24 -
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
return annual total precipitation value. If the Discharger seeks relief
from the 100-year return annual total precipitation value, the Discharger
shall certify that the Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan
(Provision E.1.a) has been prepared, and is adequate to respond to
forecast conditions using the 100-year return annual total precipitation
value distributed monthly in accordance with average (mean)
precipitation values. The calculations shall demonstrate adequate
capacity to maintain two feet of freeboard in the pond(s).
c. All ponds shall be managed to mitigate breeding of mosquitoes including, but not
limited to the following:
i. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small coves
and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
ii. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, a shoreline
synthetic liner, harvesting, or herbicides.
iii. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall be removed from the water
surface.
iv. Coordination with the local mosquito abatement or vector control district to
supplement the measures described above in cases where other methods
are infeasible.
d. Objectionable odors shall not create nuisance conditions beyond the limits of the
wastewater treatment facility. A dissolved oxygen concentration less than 1.0
mg/L in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall be evidence of the
potential to generate objectionable odors.
e. Burrowing animals active in areas that may compromise the integrity of a pond
containment shall be promptly controlled and repairs to the containment
completed as soon as possible.
f. Prior to any removal, drying, treatment, or disposal of sludge for pond
maintenance, the Discharger shall submit a Sludge Management Plan consistent
with the requirements of Provision E.1.c and obtain written approval from the
Regional Water Board’s Executive Officer. The Executive Officer shall be notified
of any changes in an approved Sludge Management Plan at least 90 days in
advance of the proposed change.
6. Subsurface Disposal Systems
a. Wastewater shall not surface in any location of the disposal area.
b. Subsurface disposal systems shall hold in reserve sufficient land area for possible
future 100-percent replacement of the subsurface disposal system, or establish an
equivalent contingency that is approved by the Regional Water Board’s Executive
Officer and described in the NOA. If less than 100-percent replacement area was
previously permitted under existing individual WDRs, WQO 97-10-DWQ, or a local
agency permit, the minimum reserve area previously permitted shall be
maintained.
September 23, 2014
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - 25 -
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
c. No part of the disposal system(s) shall extend to a depth where waste may pollute
groundwater.
d. All new or rehabilitated disposal areas associated with effluent pressure
distribution systems (pressure-dosed systems) shall be equipped with cleanouts or
a flushing system to allow solids to be removed from distribution pipes and orifices
when needed.
e. Deep rooted plants such as trees or shrubs shall be removed as needed from a
subsurface disposal system area to prevent damage to the dispersal system by
roots.
f. Burrowing animals active in areas that may result in wastewater leakage from an
at-grade or above grade (mound) disposal system shall be promptly controlled and
repairs to the disposal system completed as soon as possible.
g. Subsurface disposal systems including leach fields and seepage pits, must comply
with USEPA Underground Injection Control requirements when classified as a
Class V well. Subsurface disposal systems with at least one of the following
characteristics are classified as Class V wells:
i. The system has the capacity to serve 20 or more persons per day.
ii. The system receives wastewater other than domestic wastewater such as
that generated by manufacturing, chemical processing, industrial fluid
disposal, automotive repair, or recycling.
iii. The system receives sewage containing biological agents (such as
wastewater from recreational vehicles or portable toilets).
Disposal systems that are classified as Class V wells must be registered with
USEPA either by completing the online form at: http://www.epa.gov/
region09/water/groundwater/injection-wells-register.html , or by completing and
submitting Form 7520-16: Inventory of Injection Wells. Form 7520-16 is available
at: http://epa.gov/region09/water/groundwater/uic-pdfs/7520-16.pdf .
h. Limited repairs may be performed by homeowners or contractors as allowed by
the Business and Professions Code (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 7044, 7048). With
certain exceptions, anyone performing construction work in California must be
licensed by the California Contractors’ State License Board. Leach field repairs
shall be performed only by a California licensed General Engineering (A),
Plumbing (C-36), or Sanitation System (C-42) contractor. The Discharger shall
maintain a record of all repair activities for a minimum of five years. At a
minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of repair, service company
name, and service company state contractor license number.
September 23, 2014
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - 26 -
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
7. Land Application and/or Recycled Water Systems
a. Wastewater shall not be applied to an LAA within 24 hours of forecasted
precipitation with a greater than 50-percent probability of occurring, during
precipitation events, or when the LAA surface soil is saturated.
b. Spray irrigation with treated wastewater is prohibited when wind speed (including
gusts) exceeds 30 miles per hour. Wind speed may be measured onsite or at a
nearby weather station operated by a governmental organization.
c. Discharge of wastewater from an LAA is prohibited.
d. If undisinfected wastewater is applied to an LAA, storm water runoff from the LAA
is prohibited.
e. If storm water is allowed to runoff from an LAA (during the time of year wastewater
is not applied), all applied wastewater shall meet disinfection requirements at a
level equivalent to disinfected secondary-23 recycled water. (Cal. Code Regs.,
title 22, § 60301.225.) Land application of more highly treated water is
acceptable. Alternatively, a Discharger may submit a technical report, for
Executive Officer approval, describing how the LAA will be operated to prevent
pathogens from migrating off the LAA with stormwater.
f. If recycled water is applied, it shall comply with the title 22 water recycling criteria,
this General Order, the NOA, a title 22 Engineering Report, and any DDW
approval conditions.
g. Public contact with wastewater/recycled water shall be precluded through use of
fences, signs, and/or other appropriate means. All public use areas where
recycled water is used shall be posted with signs that are visible, in a size no less
than 4 inches by 8 inches and include the following wording, “Recycled Water –
Do Not Drink.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22, § 60310(g).)
h. Land application areas shall be managed to mitigate breeding of mosquitoes
including, but not limited to the following:
i. There shall be no standing water 48 hours after application of wastewater.
ii. Tailwater ditches must be maintained essentially free of emergent, marginal,
or floating vegetation.
iii. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to
mosquitoes shall not be used to store wastewater or recycled water.
iv. Coordination with the local mosquito abatement or vector control district to
supplement the measures described above in cases where other methods
are infeasible.
8. Sludge/Solids/Biosolids Disposal
a. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or other wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit
and screenings generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge means
September 23, 2014
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - 27 -
ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
sludge that will not be subject to further treatment at the wastewater system.
Biosolids refers to sludge that has undergone sufficient treatment and testing to
qualify for reuse pursuant to the USEPA Part 503 Biosolids Rule. (40 C.F.R.
§ 503.)
b. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, tanks, and ponds
as needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
c. Treatment and storage of sludge shall be confined to the wastewater system
property, and shall be conducted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soil in a mass or at concentrations that will violate the
groundwater limitations of this General Order.
d. Any storage of residual sludge, solid waste, or biosolids at the wastewater system
shall be temporary, and the waste shall be controlled and contained in a manner
that minimizes leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents
into soils in a mass or at concentrations that will violate the groundwater limitations
of this General Order.
e. Residual sludge, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved by
the appropriate Regional Water Board’s Executive Officer and consistent with the
Consolidated Requirements for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of
Solid Waste. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27 div. 2.) Removal for further treatment,
disposal, or reuse at disposal sites operated in accordance with valid WDRs
issued by the State Water Board or Regional Water Board will satisfy this
specification.
f. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the USEPA Part 503 Biosolids
Rule. (40 C.F.R. § 503.)
C. Groundwater and Surface Water Limitations
1. The discharge shall not
a. Pollute groundwater or surface waters.
b. Adversely affect beneficial uses of groundwater or cause an exceedance of any
applicable Basin Plan water quality objectives for groundwater or surface water.
D.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

