1,100 feet northwest of the WWTF on the north side of the highway. The existing
WWTF utilizes a pond system. The existing WWTF includes an outdoor concrete
headworks area (consisting of an inclined bar screen, grinder, and a Parshall flume),
one aeration basin with a clarifier, two lined ponds with flotation pumps, a 9,000-gallon
chlorine contact tank, a lift station, and a 4.5-acre spray field. Treated effluent is
discharged from the ponds (via gravity flow) to a lift station, which pumps the discharge
to the spray field. The second pond was used for sludge thickening where the sludge is
air-dried for several weeks and manually raked and shoveled from the bottom of the
pond into a contracted haulers container. Containers are then picked up by a contract
hauler and hauled offsite for composting.
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The April 2022 RWD was submitted for the proposed upgrades to the treatment system.
According to the RWD, the Discharger replaced the current open-air concrete
USDI, National Park Service 3 3 November 2025
Sequoia Kings Canyon National Parks
Ash Mountain WWTF
Staff Memorandum
headworks with new concrete inline influent measurement components, and a covered
structure will be constructed over the headworks to shield the apparatus from wet
weather. Effluent from the headworks will be discharged into an existing aeration basin
that has been repurposed to function as an equalization tank. The equalization tank will
have a depth of 12 feet and a usable capacity of 19,300 gallons. The existing lined
ponds will be filled in to provide pads to build, service, and operate the new treatment
system and storage tank. Effluent from the equalization tank will be discharged to a
secondary biological treatment system consisting of a pre-anoxic tank followed by a
recirculating textile filter (RTF) system featuring two Orenco AX-MAX treatment tanks
operating in parallel. After secondary treatment, effluent will flow through a new
ultraviolet disinfection (UV) system housed in a new generator/control building. The UV
disinfection system is replacing the existing chlorination treatment.
The April 2022 RWD initially proposed to install a 100,000-gallon storage tank to
replace the open-air ponds; however, Central Valley Water Board staff (Staff) reviewed
the water balance included in the report and had concerns with the Facility’s ability to
store effluent during wet-weather events. As a result, the basis of design document
submitted by HECO Engineers proposed to increase the size of the storage tank to
350,000 gallons to store treated effluent during wet weather events.
Two concrete vaults will be constructed to help facilitate flows into and out of the
storage tank. The first concrete vault will house bypass valves, a flow meter, and piping
into the storage tank. The second concrete vault will house pipes and valves for effluent
discharge from the storage tank following rain events. An existing lift station facility
pumps effluent to the spray field. The current pump at the lift station will be replaced
with a 50-hp duplex pump system to increase flow discharge capacity and efficiency.
The existing disposal area will be rehabilitated by replacing piping and the spray
nozzles. Earthen berms will be constructed on the downslope side of the spray field to
capture potential runoff from the site. The spray field currently utilizes 2.3 acres of the
available 4.5 acres for effluent discharge. The remaining spray field acreage is currently
undeveloped. The January 2024 RWD proposes to add two monitoring wells to the
spray field. Staff inquired whether a third (upgradient) monitoring well could be installed;
however, due to site conditions (e.g., steep slope) a third monitoring well is infeasible.
Due to the cost to install monitoring wells, the Discharger opted not to install any
monitoring wells.
Estimated influent and effluent quality information was submitted by HECO Engineers
on 26 February 2024 and is presented in Table 1 below. Influent quality is based on
data provided to HECO Engineers by NPS staff and anticipated effluent quality data
was provided by Orenco Systems® and is based on typical strength domestic influent.
Effluent from the RTF system is expected to average less than 10 mg/L for biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) and should achieve
50 percent reduction in total nitrogen.
USDI, National Park Service 4 3 November 2025
Sequoia Kings Canyon National Parks
Ash Mountain WWTF
Staff Memorandum
Table 1 - Estimated Influent and Effluent Quality

===PLANNED CHANGES===

