capacity (dry weather flow) of 150,000 gallons per day (gpd). The treatment
processes include influent screening (mechanical bar screen with a standby
manual bar screen), activated sludge with extended aeration, and secondary
clarification facilities. Effluent flow measurement is accomplished with a new flow
Cuyama CSD - 2 - September 20, 2017
meter being installed in the new pump station valve vault. Sludge processing
consists of aerobic digestion and sludge drying beds. Biosolids are stored on-site
at the WWTP and have not been hauled off-site since 1993. A process flow
diagram of the WWTP is presented in Attachment B.
The WWTP includes three evaporation ponds (Attachment C) for discharging
treated effluent with the option of land application on adjacent property for
irrigation of non-food crops. Evaporation Ponds 1 and 2 are sized for disposal of
the full amount of treated effluent without consideration of land application area
(LAA) available for irrigation of non-food crops (the evaporation disposal capacity
at 100-yr precipitation conditions will be 0.033 MGD). Irrigation of the LAA is an
optional disposal method for Cuyama CSD, but Cuyama CSD is not dependent on
the LAA for disposal.
5. The Title 22 engineering report describes the quality of the undisinfected
secondary treated wastewater and its potential use on a neighboring 575 acres.
The treated wastewater is an alternative irrigation source for growing grape
rootstock with drip irrigation. Once the rootstock has sufficiently grown, it is
transported, prior to growing fruit, to another field, which does not receive recycled
water from CCSD.
6. The owner of the neighboring irrigated land is Mr. Glen Stoller, who currently uses
an irrigation well to irrigate the rootstock.
Discharge Specifications
Applicable Basin Plan groundwater and/or surface water limitations in addition to those
provided in Section C of this General Order.
1. Site-specific flow limit - In no case shall Cuyama CSD discharge exceed
100,000 gpd as a monthly average.
2. The wastewater discharged to the ponds shall not exceed the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

