the above referenced General Order. You own and operate a package wastewater
treatment facility (WWTF) that has three service connections: 1. the former Black Oak
General Store, 2. a vacant mobile home, and 3. a vacant church. You propose to replace
the vacant mobile home with an 1800 square-foot manufactured home, which will likely be
the sole contributor to the WWTF for the next three years. Discharge from the WWTF is to
a small evaporation/percolation pond. The RWD indicates the design capacity of the
WWTF and evaporation/percolation pond is 2,500 gpd.
The WWTF and evaporation/percolation pond are at 3460 Highway 132 in Mariposa County
in the Northwest ¼ of Section 3, Township 3 South, Range 15 East, Mount Diablo Base and
Meridian.
The WWTF and disposal area are in the Merced River Hydrologic Unit, Coulterville
Hydrologic Subarea (537.21). The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River
and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth Edition, revised September 2009 (hereafter Basin
Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve water quality objectives for all waters of
the Basin. The Basin Plan designates the following beneficial uses of groundwater:
municipal and domestic water supply, agricultural supply, industrial service supply, and
industrial process supply.
California Environmental Protection Agency
Recycled Paper
Mr. William E. Baer - 2 - 7 October 2010
Black Oak General Store WWTF
The RWD indicates that area soils are composed of 2 to 3 feet of Blasingame-Las Posas
stony loam over weathered igneous rock. Permeability is reportedly moderate.
Precipitation and evaporation rates average 24 inches/year and 55 inches/year,
respectively.
This Notice of Applicability (NOA) authorizes coverage under Water Quality Order No. 97-
10-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements For Discharges To Land By Small
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems for the discharges to and from the WWTF
described above. The authorized discharges must comply specifically with the following
sections of the General Order: Prohibitions A (all), Requirements B.1 (all), Requirements
B.3 (all), Requirements B. 4 (all), Requirements B.6 (all), Ground Water and Surface Water
Limitations (all), and Provisions D.1 (all) and D.3 (all).
FACILITY-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The following facility specific requirements also apply:
1. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described
above is prohibited.
2. The WWTF shall be operated in accordance with the requirements contained in the
General Order.
3. The Discharger shall submit the required annual fee (as specified in the annual
billing issued by the State Water Resources Control Board) until the NOA is officially
terminated.
4. The WWTF pond shall be fenced to preclude potential access by the public. Fencing
shall be constructed in a manner deemed by the Mariposa Department of Public
Heath as adequate to prevent access by the public and to be protective of public
heath.
5. Failure to abide by the conditions of the General Order and this letter authorizing
applicability could result in enforcement actions as authorized by provisions of the
California Water Code.
You must comply with the requirements of the Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 97-
10-DWQ in Attachment A of General Order No. 97-10-DWQ.
Mr. William E. Baer - 3 - 7 October 2010
Black Oak General Store WWTF
Enclosed for your review is a draft Monitoring and Reporting Program that would replace
Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 97-10-DWQ. Provide by 20 October 2010 your
written comments on the draft Monitoring and Reporting Program. If written comments are
not provided to the address on the letterhead above by 20 October 2010 the draft
Monitoring and Reporting Program will be finalized without your input.
If you have any questions regarding this NOA, please contact Mr. Steve Popenoe at
(559) 444-2418.
Original signed by: Clay L. Rodgers for
Pamela C. Creedon
Executive Officer
Enclosures: Water Quality Order No. 97-10-DWQ-R5066
Draft proposed Monitoring and Reporting Program
cc: Brian Hodge, Mariposa County Public Health Department, Mariposa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

