187,810 Gallons 515 Gallons
Monitoring and Reporting Program Order 86-224 requires daily effluent flow monitoring and
weekly monitoring of the effluent for dissolved oxygen (DO). There are no results for DO
monitoring in the file record. MLSRA staff indicated there is never any standing effluent in the
effluent disposal pond to sample. A review of the monthly monitoring reports indicates the
effluent retention pond was listed as being dry in all of the 2018 monthly monitoring reports.
Also, a review of aerial photographs dating back to August 1989 does not show what appears to
be open standing water or wastewater in the pond. An inspection in February 2019 found the
pond to be mostly dry, with a wet vegetated area (cat tails and other grasses) in the center of
the pond basin. It had rained considerably prior to the inspection, and the rains likely
contributed to the conditions observed during the inspection. While the area was wet and soft,
there was not an area of open standing water of sufficient size to collect a sample and access to
the area would be difficult.
Millerton Lake State Recreation Area - 3 - 26 March 2019
Wastewater Treatment Facility
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Discharger currently monitors the septic tanks biannually (measures the scum layer and the
sludge layer thickness, and pumps the contents depending upon the results of the inspection)
and reported in 2017 that 3,080 gallons of sludge were removed by a contract service. The
Notice of Applicability (NOA) and the associated Monitoring and Reporting Program prepared as
part of the General Order will require annual septic tank monitoring and the NOA requires the
preparation and submittal of a Sludge Management Plan within 90 days of the issuance of the
NOA.
From the septic tanks, the wastewater is either pumped or gravity flows into the
evaporation/percolation pond. Surficial soils in the area of the effluent evaporation/percolation
pond are reported to consist of Greenfield sandy loam and Tujunga loamy sand, over weathered
bedrock (decomposed granite). Little is known about the depth to groundwater, but test pits
excavated to ten feet in 1985 did not encounter groundwater or bedrock.
The General Order includes setback requirements for the various components of the WWTF
(e.g., collection system and pond). The areas served by the MLSRA WWTF all meet the
applicable setback requirements for septic tanks and impoundments (ponds) listed in Table 3 of
the General Order. The Ramp 3 restroom is the closest to the lake being about 265 feet from
the high-water line. The effluent disposal pond is across Millerton Road to the south of the
MLSRA and is at a minimum 1,500 feet from the high-water line of Millerton Lake.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the General
Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring,
• Pond System Monitoring, and
• Solids Disposal Monitoring.
CV-SALTS
The Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments incorporating new programs
for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018
Board Meeting. These programs, once effective, could change how the Central Valley permits
discharges of salt and nitrate.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

