2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area. The treatment plant provides secondary treatment of domestic
wastewater for the City of Sausalito, unincorporated areas of Marin County
including Marin City, part of the Tamalpais Community Service District, and the
Golden Gate National Recreation Area (National Park Service), serving a
population of about 22,290. Attachment B shows the area around the plant.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The average dry weather flow to the plant is about
1.1 MGD. The treatment process is described below and as shown in the
Process Flow Diagram in Attachment C. During the previous order term, the
Discharger upgraded its treatment plant, which increased its secondary
treatment capacity from 6.0 MGD to 9.0 MGD, and increased its hydraulic
capacity to 12 MGD. The Discharger concluded construction of this project in
March 2020. The project included addition of a headworks with bar screening
and grit removal, construction of a supplemental primary clarifier, upgraded
media and new pumps to increase the treatment capacity of fixed-film reactors,
replacement of sand filters with rotating disk filters, and construction of 600,000
gallons of flow equalization storage. The updated treatment process includes
bar screening, grit removal, primary clarification, biofiltration using fixed film
reactors, secondary clarification, filtration using rotating disk filters, chlorine
disinfection, and sodium bisulfite dechlorination.
During wet weather periods, primary-treated wastewater flows above 9.0 MGD
are bypassed around biological treatment when necessary and blended with
biologically-treated wastewater prior to disinfection.
2.1.3. Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates seven pump stations
and about 11 miles of sanitary sewer lines in unincorporated areas of Marin
County, Marin City, and the City of Sausalito. Three satellite collection systems
owned and operated by other entities also contribute wastewater to the
treatment plant: the City of Sausalito (21 miles), Tamalpais Community Service
District (30 miles), and the National Park Service (17 miles). The Discharger
operates and maintains four pump stations owned by the City of Sausalito. With
the exception of the National Park Service, all of these collection systems are
covered by the Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary
Sewer Systems (State Water Board Order WQ 2022-0103-DWQ).
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger pumps secondary sludge
from the primary clarifiers to the primary digester and from the secondary
clarifiers to the headworks for capture in the primary clarifier. The primary
digester is heated, mixed, and dosed with ferric chloride. From the primary
digester, the Discharger pumps digested sludge to a secondary digester where
it is mixed but not heated. Sludge from the secondary digester passes through
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
Sausalito-Marin City Sanitary District Order R2-2023-0022
Wastewater Treatment Plant and Collection System NPDES PermitCA0038067
a screw press, and the dewatered solids are trucked for offsite disposal. Screw
press filtrate is returned to the headworks.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant is directed to the headworks.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger does not recycle treated wastewater due to
its small discharge volume and the distance between the treatment plant and
potential users.
2.1.7

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. The Discharger plans to complete the following projects
during this permit term. These changes are mentioned here for informational
purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that
they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply
Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain
necessary permits or permit modifications to implement these changes.
· Rehabilitation of the Beach force main to provide redundancy and allow for
inspections of the force main
· Rehabilitation of the original primary clarifier
· Replacement of flow diversion gates into the headworks
2.2.