POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Facility consists of two separate onsite wastewater treatment systems (OWTS), a
small septic system with a leach field that is utilized year round and a larger septic tank
attached to five leach fields operated during the summer months. The original OWTS for
Camp Mather was designed in 1927, approved by M.M. O'Shaunessy, a City Engineer
who planned the Hetch Hetchy Water Supply and created Camp Mather. The plans
indicate the OWTS was originally designed to accommodate approximately 500 people,
assuming wastewater flow of 30 gallons per capita per day or 15,000 gallons per day.
Currently, the Camp Mather OWTS has two operational leach fields (Leach Field #1 and
Leach Field #2). The 2019 Leach Field Capacity Evaluation Technical Report
recommends that a maximum month hydraulic limit of 20,000 gallons per day (gpd) be
established for the Facility until the Discharger demonstrates the system can support a
higher flow. According to the 2010 ROWD, the Facility in the past experienced flows up
to at least 40,000 gpd as the result of Camp Mather hosting festivals. In 2009, just
following a festival held at Camp Mather, Tuolumne County Environmental Health
Division staff observed evidence of sewage overflows at the Facility. As previously
Scott J. Hatton - - 3 - - 19 August 2019
Camp Mather OWTS
mentioned, festivals are reportedly no longer held at Camp Mather. According to the
technical report, the Discharger monitored Facility wastewater flows in 2018, and the
maximum monthly average flow for 2018 was 18,369 gpd.
The septic tanks are pumped out annually to restore capacity for the following camping
season. Originally, four serpentine leach fields were constructed in series for the OWTS
utilized during the summer. A new leach field (Leach Field #5) was added to the OWTS
in 1988. As previously mentioned, Leach Fields #1 and #5 are currently operational.
Leach Fields #2, 3, and 4 need to be renovated or decommissioned and disconnected.
The wastewater generated at the camp is from public toilets, washrooms, a kitchen and
a cafeteria. Limited water quality data is available for the Facility since the Discharger
currently does not have a monitoring and reporting program. The ROWD characterizes
the Facility’s influent domestic wastewater as follows:
• pH around 7;
• Electrical conductivity around 200 µmhos/cm;
• Biological oxygen demand (BOD);
• Total suspended solids around 250 mg/L;
• Fats, oils and grease about 50 mg/L; and
• Low chlorides and sulfates.
In November 2008, Condor Earth Technologies, Inc. was contracted to perform a soil
test pit characterization near the five leach fields. The report determined that the soils
exposed in the test pits consisted of sandy loam overlying granite bedrock. The ROWD
includes a map of the leach field areas and shows granite boulders and bedrock
outcroppings. The leach fields are located amongst and between these rock
outcroppings. For the six test pits, the excavation depth ranged from 48 inches to
greater than 96 inches in depth. Groundwater was not detected during the test pit soil
characterization.
NITROGEN LIMIT EVALUATION
To determine if a nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

