2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The permitted average dry weather design treatment
capacity of the plant is 15.4 MGD. The treatment process consists of a
headworks, primary clarification, secondary treatment through activated sludge
systems or oxidation pond system (or both), secondary clarification, and
disinfection.
Following primary clarification, a diversion structure splits the flow; up to 8 MGD
can be treated by the activated sludge system, which is followed by secondary
clarification. The remaining flow is directed to the oxidation pond system, which
consists of four oxidation ponds, followed by suspended solids removal in a
dissolved air flotation clarifier and flocculating clarifier. The oxidation ponds hold
up to 340 million gallons and serve as flow equalization ponds during peak wet
weather.
After secondary clarification, oxidation pond system effluent is commingled with
activated sludge effluent, chlorinated, and dechlorinated prior to discharge to
the Napa River. A portion of the dechlorinated effluent may be routed to an
onsite treatment marsh that provides equalization storage. The constructed
treatment marsh is located west of the treatment plant near the levee road next
to the Napa River. As the water level in the constructed treatment marsh
becomes elevated due to rain or plant flows, treatment marsh water is returned
to oxidation pond 1. The oxidation ponds and constructed treatment marsh are
lined with Bay Mud, which has high compressibility and low permeability. The
Discharger maintains a minimum mean hydraulic residence time in the oxidation
ponds of 5.0 days subsequent to secondary treatment and prior to discharge.
The plant typically discharges to the Napa River six months per year. The
average discharge flow from September 2016 to April 2020 was 12.64 MGD,
with a maximum daily discharge flow of 29.35 MGD.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary clarifiers and
secondary clarifiers is conveyed to an anaerobic digester. Sludge from the
dissolved air flotation clarifier, flocculation clarifier, and filter is conveyed to the
oxidation ponds. Biosolids from the anaerobic digester are sent to the sludge
holding tank and gas holder, where the gas produced is used for cogeneration,
and then conveyed to the sludge belt press for dewatering. Solids are also
periodically removed from the oxidation ponds. The Discharger land applies
biosolids from May through October of each year at three sites that it owns and
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
Napa Sanitation District Order R2-2022-0003
Soscol Water Recycling Facility and its collection system NPDES Permit CA0037575
operates. During the winter months, the Discharger stores biosolids in
agricultural bags that are 5 feet in diameter and 300 feet in length.
The Discharger also accepts anaerobically-digestible material (e.g., waste food,
fats, oil, and grease) at its Fats, Oil, and Grease (FOG) Receiving Station for
injection into its anaerobic digester.
2.1.4. Reclamation. During the reclamation season (typically May through October),
influent wastewater is treated in the same manner as during the wet season;
however, after secondary treatment, oxidation pond system effluent is
commingled with activated sludge effluent and then sent for coagulation,
filtration, and chlorination before reclamation. Flow not used for reclamation
remains in the oxidation ponds and constructed treatment marsh, and does not
undergo clarification until the wet season begins and discharge to the Napa
River is allowed. Reclaimed water is used to irrigate landscaping, industrial
parks, golf courses, pastures, feed and fodder crops, a cemetery, Napa Valley
College ball fields, a recreational park, and vineyards. Reclamation is regulated
under Regional Water Board Order 96-011 (General Water Reuse Order).
The Discharger has increased its recycled water deliveries from 2,130 acre-feet
in 2017 to 2,642 acre-feet in 2020. The two largest land application sites are
Smoky Ranch and Jameson Canyon Ranch, with an average daily application
rate of about 200,000 gallons per day (gpd) and 48,000 gpd.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) because all
stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the oxidation ponds for
secondary treatment.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. Ongoing and planned Facility changes include the following:
· Solar Power Generation Project (2022-2023) (In 2016, the Discharger
contracted SunPower Corporation to construct and operate a photovoltaic
system that became operational in 2018. In 2022, the Discharger will transfer
the system to its ownership. With cogeneration and solar power, the Discharger
will generate about 50 percent of the electricity it requires.)
· Primary Clarifier & DAFT Rehabilitation (2015-2021)
· WWTP Master Plan (2020-2022)
· Pond Levee Repair (2020-2022)
· SCADA Network Upgrades (2020-2024)
· Various Recycled Water Pump Projects (2020-2025)
· 2021 Treatment Plant Improvements Project (2021-2022)
· Various Treatment Plant Pump Improvements (2021-2024)
These planned changes are not requirements of this Order, but may be necessary
to ensure Facility reliability.
3.