Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the CSWP.
The Facility wastewater treatment process will be composed of headworks screening
and grit removal facilities, a membrane bioreactor with submerged hollow-fiber
membranes, solids dewatering screw press, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The
process is designed to treat the Cayucos Sanitary District's buildout average annual
daily flow of 0.34 MGD, with bypass piping capable of conveying peak wet weather
flows to two equalization basins. All flows in the equalization basins will be routed
back through the wastewater treatment process, starting at the beginning of the
headworks.
Raw wastewater will be conveyed from Cayucos Sanitary District's terminal lift station
(Lift Station 5) to the headworks facilities, which will include two parallel coarse
screens, followed by a single vortex grit removal unit and two parallel fine screens.
Screenings and grit from the headworks facilities will be hauled offsite for disposal.
Screened wastewater will flow into the membrane bioreactor, which will be configured
as two parallel activated sludge treatment trains, each consisting of pre-anoxic,
aerobic, and post-anoxic basins in-series. Downstream of the post-anoxic basins, flow
will combine in a membrane feed channel that will convey mixed liquor to three
parallel membrane tanks, each equipped with submerged hollow-fiber membrane
modules. Permeate from the membranes will be pumped downstream for UV
disinfection, prior to disposal of treated effluent through the outfall or distribution for
recycled water use offsite and to the onsite Recycled Water storage tank for Facility
on-site reuse applications including supply water for treatment processes, on-site
landscape irrigation, and fire protection. The Facility is designed to treat wastewater
to disinfected tertiary recycled water standards, as defined by title 22 section
60301.230.
The Discharger will only be chlorinating the recycled water to maintain a residual in the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
CAYUCOS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2020-0004
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA3000001
recycled water storage tank. The Discharger will not be chlorinating the effluent being
discharged at Discharger Point No. 001. Treated effluent that does not meet effluent
discharge standards can be manually diverted to the equalization basins downstream
of the UV disinfection unit.
Waste activated sludge solids will be wasted from the membrane tanks to a
dewatering screw press for dewatering of solids prior to being hauled off-site for
further processing and reuse as compost, and/or disposal. Initially, the Discharger
plans to contract with Mission County Disposal to transport its biosolids for land
application at Cold Canyon Landfill.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

