2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
11 Tennent Avenue in Pinole. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of Pinole and Hercules in
Contra Costa County. The Facility serves a population of about 45,000 people.
Attachment B shows a map of the area around the Facility.
2.1.2 Collection System. The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from two
collection systems. The City of Pinole’s collection system is a separate sewer
system comprised of approximately 51 miles of pipes and 2 pump stations. The
City of Hercules’ collection system is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 58 miles of pipes and 6 pump stations, covered separately under
State Water Board Order WQ 2022 0103 DWQ (Statewide Waste Discharge
Requirements General Order for Sanitary Sewer Systems). The cities own and
operate the collection systems within their city limits.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of influent
screening, grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge biological
treatment (with Modified Ludzack-Ettinger process for
nitrification/denitrification), secondary clarification, disinfection with sodium
hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. Attachment C provides
the treatment plant flow schematic. The treated effluent (disinfected and
dechlorinated) is pumped through an effluent force main to Rodeo, where it is
combined with Rodeo Sanitary District effluent and discharged through a
deepwater outfall/diffuser to San Pablo Bay. The treatment plant has an
average daily dry weather treatment capacity of up to 4.06 million gallons per
day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 20 MGD. During wet weather,
the Discharger routes flows that exceed 12 MGD directly to its activated sludge
biological treatment system (after screening and grit removal). From November
2021 through October 2022, the plant treated a daily average of 2.7 MGD.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary and
secondary sludge with a gravity thickener, treats the combined sludge with
anaerobic digestion to a Class B level, and dewaters the combined sludge with
a centrifuge. Biosolids are currently hauled to the Keller Canyon Landfill for
disposal. The Discharger is considering composting and land application of
biosolids for future disposal practices.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
City of Pinole Order R2-2023-0008
Pinole-Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037796
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

