dissolved oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater
treatment or storage pond shall not be less than 1.0 mg/L for three
27
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2024-0005
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
consecutive sampling events. Notwithstanding the DO monitoring
frequency specified in the monitoring and reporting program, if DO in any
single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for any single sampling event, the
Discharger shall implement daily DO monitoring of that pond until the
minimum DO concentration is achieved for at least three consecutive
days. If DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive
days, the Discharger shall report the findings to the Central Valley Water
Board in accordance with Section B.1 of the SPRRs. The written
notification shall include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results
within 30 days of the first date of violation.
11. The Discharger shall design, construct, operate, and maintain all ponds
sufficiently to protect the integrity of containment dams and berms and
prevent overtopping and/or structural failure. The operating freeboard in
any pond shall never be less than two feet (measured vertically from the
lowest possible point of overflow). As a means of management and to
discern compliance with this requirement, the Discharger shall install and
maintain in each pond a permanent staff gauge with calibration marks that
clearly show the water level at design capacity and enable determination
of available operational freeboard.
12. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall
have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow,
design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration during
the winter while ensuring compliance with all requirements of this Order.
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation
using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with
historical rainfall patterns.
13. On or about 1 October of each year, available capacity shall at least equal
the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications G.11 and
G.12.
14. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent
breeding of mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that
small coves and irregularities are not created around the perimeter
of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the
water surface.
28
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2024-0005
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
d. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito
Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding
as needed to supplement the above measures.
15. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal
berms that separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall
be designed and constructed under the supervision of a California
Registered Civil Engineer.
H. Groundwater Limitations
1. Discharges of waste shall not cause or contribute to groundwater containing
constituent concentrations in excess of the concentrations specified below or
natural background water quality, whichever is greater:
a. Total coliform organism level of 2.2 MPN/100 mL over any seven-day
period.
b. Constituents in concentrations that exceed either Primary or Secondary
MCLs established in Title 22, excluding salinity.
c. Contain taste or odor-producing constituents, toxic substances, or any
other constituents in concentrations that cause nuisance or adversely
affect beneficial uses.
I.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

