known as the Town Field;
b. Install and operate a sodium hypochlorite injection system and contact chamber for
effluent disinfection prior to land application;
c. Install and operate additional aerators in treatment Ponds 1 through 3 to achieve the
horsepower shown in the table below:
Aeration Capacity
Pond 1 Pond 2 Pond 3 Pond 4
Existing Capacity 15 HP 7.5 HP 7.5 HP 7.5 HP
Upgraded Capacity 30 HP 27.5 HP 17.5 HP No change
CEASE AND DESIST ORDER R5-2013-0023 - 7 -
CITY OF IONE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
AMADOR COUNTY
d. Install and operate a mixer unit in Pond 5 (this task was completed June 2012).
e. Remove anoxic soil and sludge from Pond 5 and sludge from Pond 6, and
subsequently backfill and compact with clean fill to bring the bottom of these two
ponds to an elevation above the seasonal high groundwater level.
f. Monitor, on a monthly basis for one year, at Ponds 5, 6, and 7 using field
instruments to measure dissolved oxygen (DO), oxygen reduction potential (ORP),
and sludge depths.
g. Install a new

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge (for existing facilities only)
1. Describe in detail any and all planned changes in the facility or discharge, addressing each of items
listed in Section B above.
D . Local and Site-Specific Conditions (Illustrate with maps as appropriate)
4 To the extent this information is already presented in the Title 22 Engineering Report, the RWD may
incorporate that report by reference. The Title 22 Engineering Report must also be submitted to the California
Department of Public Health for review and approval.
Attachment A A6
Additional Information Requirements
For A Report of Waste Discharge
1. Neighboring land uses.
2. Typical crops grown (if agricultural area).
3. Irrigation water source(s) and volume and quality data (if agricultural area).
4. Terrain and site drainage features.
5. Nearest surface water drainage course.
6. FEMA floodplain designation(s).
7. Average Annual precipitation (inches)
8. 100-year 365-day precipitation (inches)
9. Reference evapotranspiration (monthly and annual total)
10 . Pan evaporation (monthly and annual total)
11 . A description of the types and depths of soil underlying ponds and/or effluent disposal areas
(include a copy of the geotechnical report and/or NRCS soil report). Include at least the following:
a. Depth of unsaturated soil when groundwater is closest to the surface.
b. Soil types based on site-specific information, sampling locations (accurately measured and
recorded), description and results of percolation tests or other tests used to estimate soil long-
term infiltration rates. Include depth, thickness, and soil horizons. Soils must be described at
a minimum of five feet below the bottom of any disposal unit.
c. Bedrock type and condition encountered in disposal area, if any.
d. A scaled map depicting soil/rock types and test locations.
12 . Provide the following information about