A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility produces disinfected tertiary recycled water suitable for unrestricted
reuse. The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks (screening and
grit removal), two anoxic basins, two extended aeration activated sludge basins, two
denitrification basins, two secondary clarifiers, two banks of two single media filters
(total of four filters), chlorine disinfection, dechlorination, and a cascade aeration
system for discharge of tertiary treated effluent to Marsh Creek. A 36-millimeter
thick, polypropylene lined Emergency Storage Pond with a 13.1 million gallon
capacity exists to divert effluent during high flows or slug discharges, if needed,
before returning to the headworks. The Facility is currently being upgraded for an
expansion of the flow capacity to accommodate future increased wastewater inflows
associated with development and population growth identified in the City’s General
Plan. Specific details of the upgrades are included below in Section II.E.
Treated effluent that is not discharged to the creek is distributed as recycled water to
irrigation customers primarily during the summer months through the City’s non-
potable water supply system, which conveys both recycled water and raw water
supplied by the East Contra Costa Irrigation District. Recycled water is also provided
via the City’s recycled water fill station located at the Facility.
Sludge is mixed with a polymer and dewatered using two belt filter presses. Dried
biosolids are hauled off-site for disposal at the Altamont Landfill located in the City of
Livermore and occasionally to the Potrero Hills Landfill in Suisun City or the Vasco
Road Landfill located in the City of Livermore. Once the expansion upgrades are
complete, the Discharger intends to implement an anaerobic digester, centrifuge
dewatering system and a biosolids drying and pyrolysis system as a means of
producing Class A biosolids, as well as provide diverse options for biosolids
disposal. The Facility produces approximately 942 dry metric tons of biosolids
annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids are regulated by U.S.
EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

