which prevents untreated groundwater from discharging to the sewer system.
Effluent from the treatment plant is discharged to a lined effluent pond. A significant
source of influent flow to the effluent pond, in addition to the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant, is from groundwater remediation treatment plant Site
CG044-013, located at Site 13, which was constructed to remediate trichloroethene in
groundwater. The remediation system is operated by the AFCEC, with oversight by the
Central Valley Water Board, DTSC, and other regulatory agencies. The groundwater
remediation plant was constructed in 1994 and consists of 15 groundwater extraction
wells. The remediation system includes an air stripper, controlled by a SCADA system.
The system cannot run without all components of the other systems being active, (i.e.
the extraction pumps cannot operate without the air stripper blowers and conveyance
pumps operating). This prevents a release of untreated water to the effluent pond. The
remediation system can also discharge directly into the A-Street Pond, bypassing the
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2019-0086 2
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
BEALE AFB WASTWATER TREATMENT PLANT
YUBA COUNTY
effluent pond and Pond 4. Effluent from the remediation treatment system is of higher
quality than effluent from the WWTP.
The effluent pond discharges to Pond 4, which is unlined and used for storage. The
wastewater in Pond 4 is either discharged to the A-Street Pond, where it is used to
irrigate a restricted access, on-base golf course, or is used for irrigation at two irrigation
fields. To maintain sufficient capacity in Pond 4, unlined Ponds 2 and 3 can be used as
needed to meet the required two feet of freeboard in Pond 4. Wastewater discharged to
Ponds 2 and 3 is pumped back into Pond 4 once the capacity issue has been resolved.
Groundwater Conditions
Groundwater beneath Pond 4 ranges between 15 feet to 33 feet below ground surface
(bgs). Near the A-Street Pond and the golf course, groundwater ranges from 27 feet to
33 feet bgs. Localized flow directions can vary due to pumping of groundwater for
domestic use and groundwater remediation projects. Based on the Second Quarter
2018

===PLANNED CHANGES===

PLANNED CHANGES IN THE FACILITY AND DISCHARGE
30. Construction of an additional irrigation field (Irrigation Field #2) was completed in
September 2011 but has not yet received wastewater. Irrigation Field #2 is comprised of
two separate areas, as shown on Attachment B. The eastern field consists of 39 acres
and will use spray cannons for irrigation. The western field of Irrigation Field #2 is
comprised of 20 acres and can accommodate two spray cannons. Both fields are
bermed to contain the wastewater on the fields. Vegetation on the fields consists of
native and non-native invasive weeds, which are not non-edible and are not harvested
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2019-0086 9
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
BEALE AIR FORCE BASE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
YUBA COUNTY
for human consumption. Discharges to Irrigation Field #2 are regulated under this Order
and a flow meter is required to be installed prior the use of the field.
31. The Discharger plans on utilizing small animals (goats or sheep) as a measure for
vegetation control for the irrigation fields.
32. There are two existing ponds, Ponds 2 and 3, that have been constructed but have not
been used. Both ponds are unlined and bermed. Ponds 2 and 3 have capacities of 1.3
MG and 26.5 MG, respectively. If water levels in Pond 4 become a concern, such as
insufficient freeboard in Pond 4, wastewater from Pond 4 can be diverted and pumped
to Ponds 2 and 3 for temporary storage. Once the water level in Pond 4 subsides, the
water from Ponds 2 and 3 will gravity flow back to Pond 4. The Discharger has
requested that Ponds 2 and 3 be added to this Order for use as a contingency measure
in the event that 2 feet of freeboard cannot be maintained in Pond 4.
33. A project to enlarge A-Street Pond is also under consideration to increase the storage
capacity of the pond. The amount of increased storage capacity has not been
determined due to some constraints regarding existing vernal pools in the vicinity.
Additional evaluations may be conducted.
34. Infrastructure is in place that would allow the effluent from the CG044-013 groundwater
remediation system to discharge directly to the A-Street Pond, bypassing the Effluent
Pond and Pond 4. Conveyance of CG044-013 effluent directly to A-Street Pond will not
affect water quality as the Site CG044-013 effluent is proven to be of a higher quality
than Title 22 disinfected secondary-23 recycled water standards. Flows from
CG044-013 into the A-Street Pond will be measured at flow meter station 4 (M4).
INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PRETREATMENT
35. Industrial discharges to publicly owned wastewater treatment facilities (WWTFs) can
cause one or more of the following problems if not adequately controlled:
a. Interference or Upset. Discharges of high volumes or concentrations of certain
pollutants can inhibit or interfere with the proper operation of the WWTF, causing it
to do an inadequate job of treating wastes. As a result, the facility could be
prevented from meeting its permit requirements.
b. Sludge Management. Industrial pollutants, particularly metals and other toxic
pollutants, can limit the sludge management alternatives available to the Discharger
and increase the cost of sludge management and disposal. Additionally, biosolids
contaminated with toxic pollutants could be rendered unsuitable as a soil
amendment.
c. Pass-through. Some industrial pollutants may not receive adequate treatment and
pass through the treatment system at concentrations that can could unreasonably
degrade