FRESNO COUNTY
8. Treated effluent is discharged to percolation/evaporation ponds in summer through
early fall and to leach trenches in late fall through spring. Historically there were
twelve evaporation/percolation ponds connected in series by gravity pipelines that are
at least 2 feet below the top of the pond sidewalls. Ponds 5 and 6 have been
combined and ponds 8 and 9 have been combined. Surface aerators are in ponds 1
and combined pond 5/6. Total capacity of the pond system is 25.7 acre feet (8.374
million gallons). There are a total of 69 leach trenches, each 100 feet long. The
leach trenches are 10 feet deep and 2 feet wide. A 4-inch perforated PVC pipe is
buried 2 feet below ground surface with 1.5-inch gravel below and native backfill
above the pipe.
9. Treated effluent from the evaporation/percolation ponds is used to sprinkler-irrigate a
3.2-acre reclamation area (also referred to as sprayfield) of grass (50-50 mix of Blue
Grass and Perennial Rye Grass) and native vegetation. Approximately two acres of
the grass portion of the sprayfield is used for softball or other similar recreational
activities and a heliport for the U.S. Forest Service and Life Flight helicopters. The
remainder of the sprayfield consists of native vegetation on cut or fill slopes and
natural terrain. The sprayfield overlays approximately 40 leach trenches. Discharge
to this area alternates between the leach trenches in the late fall through spring and to
the sprayfield in summer through early fall when the ponds are in use. Discharge via
the leach trenches and sprayfield do not occur simultaneously.
10. The Discharger continuously monitors the chlorine dose used for disinfection and
collects a sample of effluent (following disinfection) on a daily basis and analyzes the
sample for residual chlorine levels.
11. Sludge from the SBR’s is pumped into an aerobic digester where a polymer is added
to aid in flocculation. Clear liquid is decanted from the digester and returned to the
SBR’s. The remaining sludge in the digester is pumped to a vacuum-assisted drying
floor within the main WWTF building. Following drying, the sludge is transported via
front loader and truck to the sludge storage area where it is spread on bare ground for
further drying by the sun. The Discharger turns the spread sludge every few days
until it is dry enough to crumble instead of smear. Following this procedure, the
sludge is stockpiled at the same location. A composite sample of dried sludge is
analyzed twice per year for classification. The Discharger indicates dried sludge from
2010 and 2011 has been classified as Class A biosolids. Dried sludge is used as a
soil amendment at the site or hauled off-site.
12. Surface waters are protected from runoff of effluent by a minimum of 2-feet of
freeboard in each percolation/evaporation pond, rotation of discharge to leach
trenches to allow for periods of rest, inspection and preventative maintenance of
leach trench distribution boxes, sprinkler irrigation of sprayfield in summer and early
fall at rates that preclude standing water, and covering biosolid stockpiles with tarp.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0125 -4-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
13. The Discharger is exploring the logistics of accepting wastewater flows from the
nearby Hume Subdivision, which currently discharges domestic waste to individual
septic systems. In order to accommodate the camp’s peak seasonal monthly
discharge and potential wastewater flows from the subdivision, the Discharger
submitted the RWD requesting an increase of the permitted flow rate to 0.275 mgd.
14. Peak flows at the camp and Hume Subdivision are during June, July, and August.
The average daily flows during this period are 110,000 gallons per day (gpd) for the
camps and 162,900 gpd for the Hume Subdivision.
15. The discharge infrastructure of the WWTF will be modified so that treated effluent can
be discharged directly to the sprayfield when recycled water is needed and to
preclude discharge of treated effluent from the evaporation/percolation ponds to the
sprayfield.
Wastewater Collection System
16. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes,
manholes, and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the
treatment facility. A “sanitary sewer overflow” (SSO) is defined as a discharge to
ground or surface water from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the
treatment facility. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells,
regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines, etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer
system and discharges to these facilities are not considered SSOs, provided that the
waste is fully contained within these temporary storage/conveyance facilities.
17. SSOs consist of varying mixtures of domestic and commercial wastewater, depending
on land uses in the sewage collection system. The most common causes of SSOs
are grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages, sewer line flood damage,
manhole structure failures, vandalism, pump station mechanical failures, power
outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or contractor-
caused blockages.
18. SSOs often contain pathogenic organisms, toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen
demanding organic compounds, oil and grease, suspended solids, and other
pollutants. SSOs to surface waters can cause temporary exceedances of applicable
water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic life,
and impair recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface waters in the area.
19. The Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under State Water Board
Order 2006-0003-DWQ because neither the sewer system nor the WWTF is publicly
owned. Therefore, the Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0125 -5-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
adequately maintain, operate, and prevent overflows from its sanitary sewer system,
and to comply with this Order with regard to responding to and reporting all SSOs.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The potable water supply comes from seven wells, Long Meadow Creek, and Hume
Lake. Based on a water supply monitoring event during May 2012, the chemical
character of the potable water supply is summarized below.
Average of Long
Seven Meadow Hume