being conducted at Monitoring Location EFF-001.
Until 2018, the 0.6-acre unlined pond was used as a sludge lagoon to store and
process digested sludge. In 2018, after the new Facility’s biosolids treatment system
was put into service the 0.6-acre sludge lagoon was taken out of service. In late
2020/early 2021 the Discharger completed removal of the remaining sludge in the
lagoon. The 0.6-acre unlined pond has a telescoping valve that provides the
Discharger with the ability to drain the pond back to the headworks for treatment
depending on the level set by the Discharger. The pond is currently used as a
stormwater detention basin, which collects stormwater runoff from three drain inlets
located near the dewatering building, sludge storage tank, and secondary clarifier
areas. With a storage capacity of 1.9 million gallons (MG), this basin is dedicated
solely to stormwater collection. The stormwater runoff from the overland flow area is
collected into a ditch and then pulled from the Stormwater Conveyance Canal using
a portable mechanical pump into the diversion pump station for delivery to the
emergency storage ponds.
The Facility utilizes two dedicated unlined emergency storage ponds; Emergency
Storage Pond 1 and Emergency Storage Pond 2. Emergency Storage Pond 2
receives primary, secondary, and tertiary effluent from the facility but cannot be fully
drained. Emergency Storage Pond 1 receives the same as Emergency Storage
Pond 2 and acts as a backup when Emergency Storage Pond 2 reaches capacity.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5-2025-0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0079049
Transfer Structure 3 at the Facility receives either secondary effluent, undisinfected
tertiary effluent, or disinfected/reaerated effluent (approaching noncompliance) to
discharge to the emergency storage ponds. Water in the emergency storage ponds
can either be directed back to Transfer Structure 3 or to the Facility headworks.
Transfer Structure 3 connects Emergency Storage Ponds 1 and 2 and facilitates flow
transfers between them.
Stormwater from the Facility is pumped to the Stormwater Conveyance Canal, which
flows north then west and conveys stormwater to the Stormwater/Auxiliary
Emergency Storage Ponds. When the Stormwater Conveyance Canal reaches the
elevation of the culverts, it discharges to these ponds. Per the Discharger, this
occurred approximately twice during the last permit cycle. Since the Facility upgrade
in 2017, the Discharger has not needed to discharge wastewater from the
emergency storage ponds to the Stormwater/Auxiliary Emergency Storage Ponds,
but requested during this permit renewal to allow for this emergency option in this
and future Orders to properly regulate any possible future emergency storage pond
discharges to the Stormwater/Auxiliary Emergency Storage Ponds. The Discharger
would utilize the three former long-term unlined storage ponds as back-up
emergency storage. The wastewater sent to these ponds would be diluted with
stormwater and be considered a discharge to groundwater (via Discharge Point 005)
since the water to these ponds cannot be sent back to the Facility headworks.
Two unlined recycled water storage ponds receive tertiary treated, disinfected
effluent. Since the recycled water storage ponds are not lined and water will be
retained in the ponds until distribution, it is considered a discharge to groundwater
via Discharge Point 006.
The levee around the Facility was designed and built in 2018 to protect the Facility
from flooding through a breached Cache Creek levee. The elevation of the perimeter
is 35.3 feet. The table below provides volumes for the emergency storage ponds,
stormwater/auxiliary emergency storage ponds, stormwater basin, and the Davis
Wetland (Tracts 6, 7, and wastewater tract). Volumes for the emergency storage
ponds, stormwater/auxiliary emergency storage ponds, stormwater basin were
provided by the Discharger. Volumes at the Davis Wetlands are per the City of
Davis, Effluent Dilution During Flooding and Reclamation Report (West Yost and
Associates, September 2002).

===PLANNED CHANGES===

