Boron mg/L 0.85 1.05 1.6
23. Flow equalization may be provided by an equalization basin after the treatment process.
The basin may or may not be lined and will be maintained to prevent weed growth and
rodent intrusion.
24. Treated wastewater will continue to be disposed in the existing percolation basins
and/or former treatment /polishing ponds. The basins will be operated to maximize
percolation and minimize evaporation. As a result of the new wastewater treatment
system and improved operation of the percolation basins, the overall salinity increase
due to evapoconcentration is expected to be reduced from 80 percent to 20 percent.
25. The Discharger has not used the 120 acres of former land application area (LAA) for
effluent disposal since 2009 and does not plan to in the future. However, the
Discharger may use the former LAA and/or the decommissioned treatment pond area
to add additional percolation basins as operational backup of hydraulic capacity.
26. The RWD included a water balance based on reasonable estimates of influent flows,
inflow and infiltration (I/I), precipitation, percolation, and evaporation. The water
balance was used to model disposal capacity during a year with average precipitation
followed by a 100-year, 365-day precipitation event. The model shows that the new
WWTF will provide the capacities in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
The Discharger plans to decommission the 122 acres of treatment ponds and construct an
activated sludge treatment system to minimize evapoconcentration of salts. The new system
will contain two treatment trains operated in parallel. Each treatment train will consist of a
concrete oxidation ditch and a secondary clarifier. The RWD states that evapoconcentration
during treatment will be negligible. The activated sludge treatment system will be
constructed in the northern area of the current wastewater ponds.
Influent wastewater character is not expected to change except with respect to salinity and
boron. The boron concentration may increase if residents use boron containing detergents to
improve the cleaning efficiency of hard water and the loss of water softeners. Additionally,
overall influent salinity could increase due to increased household water conservation.
Treated wastewater will continue to be disposed in the existing percolation basins. The
basins will be operated to maximize percolation and minimize evaporation. The overall
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014-0098 3
CITY OF DIXON
DIXON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SOLANO COUNTY
salinity increase due to evapoconcentration is expected to be reduced from 80 percent to 20
percent.
The Discharger does not plan to use the 120 acres of former land application area (LAA) for
effluent disposal, but may use the former LAA and/or the decommissioned treatment pond
area to add additional percolation basins as operational backup of hydraulic capacity.
Decommissioning the wastewater treatment ponds will require the removal of accumulated
sludge. The total accumulation is estimated to be about 2,000 dry tons. This Order requires
the submittal of a pond closure workplan and closure report.
The new treatment system will use secondary clarifiers. Wasted sludge will be mechanically
dewatered and further dewatering will occur seasonally using asphalt paved drying beds.
Leachate and storm water runoff from the drying beds will be returned to the headworks.
Dried solids will be disposed of at a landfill.
Site-Specific Conditions
The WWTF is relatively level at an approximate elevation of 40 feet mean sea level (MSL).
Soils at the site generally consist of clays and silty clay loams 15 to 30 feet below ground
surface. Surrounding land use is primarily agricultural. The Discharger’s site-specific water
quality objective study surveyed 5,400 acres within one mile of the WWTF and found that
alfalfa and mixed pasture crops make-up approximately 55 percent of the surveyed area.
Irrigation water used for agriculture upgradient of the WWTF is primarily high quality surface
water from Lake Berryessa. In the area surrounding the WWTF, irrigation water is supplied
by groundwater wells and previously used drainage water. The TDS concentration of surface
water from Lake Berryessa is approximately 50 mg/L and the TDS concentration from
groundwater wells is approximately 1,000 mg/l.
Groundwater Conditions
The depth to groundwater in the vicinity of the WWTF ranges from 15 to 40 feet below
ground surface. The local groundwater flow direction is generally from west northwest
toward east southeast.
Prior to the 2008 CDO, the Discharger’s monitoring network contained 12 monitoring wells:
TW-1, TW-2, TW-3, NW-2, SW-MWR, NE-MW, SE-MW, and MW-6 through MW-10. The
monitoring well network was expanded in 2010 by installing five new monitoring wells (MW-
11 through MW-15). In January 2012, the Discharger voluntarily submitted a Groundwater
Evaluation Report that evaluated background