chemical oxidizing towers, and carbon treatment towers.
The BNR activated sludge treatment facilities will be designed to process up to
330 MGD. Flows in excess of 330 MGD will be stored in peak-shaving storage
facilities (ESB’s) and returned for processing through the BNR facilities when
capacity is available. All wastewater will receive secondary treatment through
the BNR facilities. The tertiary filters will be designed to process flows up to
217 MGD, measured as a daily average. This Order requires seasonal
disinfection requirements and the Facility will be operated differently during
each season, as follows:
a. 1 May – 31 October. The Facility will be operated to meet Title 22 or
equivalent disinfection criteria, as described in Special Provision VI.C.6.a.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2021-0019
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
b. 1 November – 30 April (commencing 1 November 2023):
In the descriptions below, “filtered” means tertiary filtration of BNR effluent
under filter operations consistent with the design hydraulic loading rate
necessary to comply with the Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection criteria.
i. When the BNR effluent flow is 217 MGD, or less, measured as a
daily average, the entire BNR effluent flow will be filtered.
ii. When the BNR effluent flow exceeds 217 MGD, up to 217 MGD will
be filtered and the remaining wastewater will not be filtered. A portion
of the filtered effluent may be reclaimed. The remaining filtered and
non-filtered wastewater will be disinfected and combined with
reclaimed water in excess of demands, prior to the dechlorination
facilities.
3. Biosolids Treatment. Solids are thickened by dissolved air flotation and
gravity belt thickeners. Primary and secondary sludge is mixed. Fats, oils, and
grease from the FOG receiving station may be mixed to the waste and the
mixed waste is sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately 15 days or more,
stored at the sludge stabilization basins for 3 to 5 years, then harvested and
injected into dedicated lined land disposal sites. Some biosolids are recycled
with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger can dispose
of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option. Separate
WDR’s (Order R5-2015-0133), in conformance with California Code of
Regulations (CCR), Title 27, division 2, subdivision 1, regulate the biosolids
and solids storage and disposal facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment
units, unclassified solids storage basins, and the Class III grit and screening
landfill closure. When the treatment plant upgrades are complete, biosolids
treatment and disposal will remain unchanged.
4. Groundwater Corrective Action Plan (CAP). The Discharger initiated a CAP
in December 1995 and is currently regulated under WDR Order R5-2015-0133.
The CAP is to address elevated constituent concentrations that were observed
in samples from

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is constructing
upgrades to the Facility, including replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological
treatment facilities with BNR air activated treatment facilities capable of removing
ammonia and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration
with granular media filters, and an increase in lined ESB facilities. Construction of
the side stream ammonia treatment is complete.
In all, Facility modifications will result in the construction, commissioning, and
operation of seven or more new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units: flow
equalization, disinfection chemical storage, biological nutrient removal (phase I and
phase II), nitrifying side-stream treatment, and tertiary treatment facilities. Biological
nutrient removal and nitrifying side-stream treatment are biological treatment
processes. The start-up and commissioning period (i.e., period of time necessary for
adjusting and testing of new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units) for
projects of this size, while maintaining consistent and ongoing treatment operations,
is a complex undertaking. It involves the gradual transitioning of wastewater
treatment from current plant facilities over to new or reconstructed treatment plant
facilities. Prior to start-up and adjustment, the Discharger intends to submit start-up
operation plans for the period of adjustment and testing to the Central Valley Water
Board for review. The Discharger has indicated that plans will be submitted
separately for each of the individual wastewater treatment units and will be
submitted in accordance with the schedule for the individual wastewater treatment
unit in question. Specifically, such plans will be submitted at least 30 days prior to
the period of adjusting and testing that will take place for each individual wastewater
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-14
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2021-0019
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
treatment unit. It is anticipated that the period of adjustment and testing may occur
over several months to over many months, depending on the wastewater treatment
unit. However, potential effluent or other permit violations will likely only occur during
certain times of the adjustment and testing period. If the Discharger wishes to apply
for protection from Mandatory Minimum Penalties during the start-up periods, then
pursuant to Water Code section 13385(j)(1)(D), the Discharger’s start-up operations
plans must include steps that the Discharger will take to prevent violations and
identify the shortest reasonable time required for the period of adjusting and testing
that could result in effluent or permit violations. The Central Valley Water Board will
work with the Discharger to identify the appropriate steps and actions to be taken to
minimize the potential for Mandatory Minimum Penalties.
III.