Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) for WWTF improvements,
including the installation of membrane biological reactors (MBRs), an ultraviolet (UV)
light disinfection system, and a belt press for sludge dewatering. The updated facility
will be able to produce tertiary treated wastewater for potential beneficial reuse.
The Discharger expects to complete construction of these improvements by
December 2012.
16. The updated WWTF will consist of a grit removal unit, a flow equalization tank, two
fine screens, two MBR units, a sludge holding tank, a sludge belt press, a dry sludge
storage area, a UV disinfection system, the existing storage pond, and the existing
spray field LAAs. A standby generator was installed to provide backup power.
The updated WWTF will be controlled by the Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition system.
17. The new structures are located on the existing site; many of the old facilities are being
converted or replaced. The existing 40,000- gallon Vallecito aeration tank will be
used as a flow equalization basin. The new MBR units, the belt press, and the UV
disinfection system were installed on the footprint of the existing drying beds, as
shown on Attachment B.
18. The updated WWTF has two parallel 0.1-MGD MBR basins for redundancy to allow
one unit to be temporarily taken out of service for maintenance. A typical MBR unit
has three zones: anoxic, pre-aeration and membranes. The returned activated
sludge is first introduced and mixed with the plant influent in the anoxic zone.
Then, the mixed liquor is pumped into the pre-aeration zone where the wastewater is
treated by conventional aeration. The pre-aeration zone effluent passes through the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2013-0009 5
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
DOUGLAS FLAT/VALLECITO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
CALAVERAS COUNTY
membrane zone where the wastewater is separated from the activated sludge.
A significant amount of air must be introduced below the membrane units for scouring.
19. The new UV disinfection system consists of three banks of lights, with two banks
scheduled for online operation and one bank provided as backup. The UV
disinfection system provides a minimum dose of 80 mJ/cm2 at 65 percent UV
transmittance. UV disinfection is preferable to chlorine disinfection because it
reduces effluent salinity and prevents the formation of chlorination by-products.
20. Raw wastewater will be mechanically screened and then conveyed to the equalization
tank, a MBR unit, and the UV disinfection system. The disinfected wastewater will be
discharged into the storage pond and then applied to the LAAs. Solid waste from the
fine screen and the waste activated sludge will be dewatered by the 0.7-meter belt
filter press. The dewatered sludge will be tested and stored in a roofed dry sludge
storage area on site in order to meet the requirements for Class B biosolids, and then
removed for off-site disposal. The dry sludge storage area has a concrete floor with
curbs to prevent leachate infiltration and runoff.
21. The RWD projected the treated wastewater quality for the updated WWTF as follows:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

