A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks with one mechanical
bar screen, a backup manual screen, a backup comminutor, two activated sludge
aeration basins, two secondary clarifiers, one ballast pond to equalize flow to the
pressure filters, three pressurized multi-media filtration units, one chlorine contact
basin, and sulfur dioxide dechlorination. Treated effluent is discharged to the
Sacramento River through a multiport diffuser.
Influent Pump Station & Headworks: The influent pump station is equipped with
three dry pit submersible pumps with a pumping capacity of 2.5 MGD each. The
headworks also has a 3.5 MGD natural gas emergency pump if the backup diesel
power generator fails or flows exceed 7.5 MGD.
Bar Screen: The mechanical screen (Aqua Guard) removes large debris and rags.
The headworks also includes a backup communator and a manual bar rake for
screenings. In the event of a total screening failure, a high-level alarm will sound and
notify the standby operator. The influent flow will eventually overflow into the
emergency basin pipeline located at the headworks.
Complete Mix Activated Sludge: Flow from the headworks is distributed evenly
between the two 420,000-gallon aeration basins. Detention times run from 4 to
8 hours, depending on flows.
Secondary Clarifiers: Flow from aeration basins enters a distribution box, dividing
the flow to each clarifier. Surface loading rates range from 276 to 1,104 gallons per
day per square foot. The return-activated sludge rate is 30% to 100% of the influent
flow. Waste-activated sludge is pumped to the digester at 36,000 to 50,400 gallons
daily. Scum and floatable are skimmed and pumped (approximately 3,000 gallons
per week) to the aerobic digester.
Pressure Filtration: Clarifier effluent flows to an equalization ballast pond
(290,000 gallons), where filter pumps draw from. Filters No.1 and No. 2 have a
maximum flow rate of 1.7 MGD each, and filter No. 3 is 2 MGD. The filter’s
maximum surface loading rate is 5 gallons per minute per square foot. Backwash
rates are 18,000 gallons to 25,000 gallons per backwash. A typical backwash occurs
every 24 to 72 hours. Backwash flow is typically sent to the sludge stabilization
ponds or can be routed to either aeration basins. A fourth pump (2 MGD) is available
for bypass pumping to the chlorine contact chamber if emergency storage (5.3 MG)
is at capacity and influent flow exceeds 6 MGD.
Chlorination: Two chlorinators supply a gas solution for disinfection with a
maximum feed rate of 400 lbs/day. The dose is applied at the beginning of the
134,000-gallon chlorine contact chamber. Detention time during the average flow is
around 2.5 hours. The chlorine gas solution can also be valved to the influent
maintenance hole for odor control and is also used for pre-filtration, MLSS
filamentous control, and algae control on clarifier launders.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
CITY OF ANDERSON ORDER R5-2025-0011
ANDERSON WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES CA0077704
De-chlorination: The effluent discharged from the chlorine contact chamber is
dosed with a sodium bisulfite solution. The sodium bisulfite neutralizes any
remaining chlorine to have a zero-chlorine residual, leaving the Facility. Between the
two peristaltic chemical feed pumps, there is a combined max feed rate of
120 gallons/day.
Digester: The Facility has two aerobic digesters. Digester No. 1 has a capacity of
256,000 gallons, and Digester No. 2 has a capacity of 453,000 gallons. Currently,
only Digester No. 2 is online. Approximately 36,000 to 46,000 gallons per day of
waste-activated sludge is pumped to the digester daily. Every evening, an automatic
decant valve opens to decant off the supernatant to one of the ponds. The digester
is wasted twice weekly to one of the three sludge stabilzation ponds at
approximately 120,000 gallons weekly. Solids retention time is 25 days.
Sludge Stabilization Ponds and Drying Beds: Ponds receive digester decant,
wasting, and filter backwash flows. The ponds are decanted back to the headworks
at a maximum flow of 0.04 MGD. Ponds are dewatered in the spring to an empty
pond. The solids are dried in the pond or in conjunction with the drying beds if solid
levels are too high. The drying beds have an underdrain system that flows back to
the headworks. Once the sludge has dried in ponds and beds, it is removed and
trucked to the landfill.
Sludge stabilization ponds No. 3 and No. 4 are identical in specifications: total
surface area is 1-acre, overall depth is 8.4 feet, design liquid depth is 6.4 feet and
the total volume is 2 million gallons (each). The invert elevation is 395.85 feet.
Sludge stabilization pond No. 5 has a total surface area of 1.75 acres, the overall
depth is 8.33 feet, the design liquid depth is 6.33 feet and the total volume is
3.6 million gallons. The invert elevation for sludge stabilization pond No. 5 is
396.57 feet. The sludge stabilization ponds are typically operated in an annual
rotation; sludge stabilization ponds No. 3 and No. 4 are operated concurrently when
sludge stabilization pond No. 5 is offline, and vice versa. As a result, approximately
every 18 months one or two of the ponds will be emptied of solids in the fall.
Sludge drying beds: The sludge drying beds have a total surface area of
30,000 square feet. Individual surface areas of the drying beds are as follows:
Drying bed No. 1, No. 2, No. 3, and No. 4 are 7,000, 8,000, 8,000, and 7,000 square
feet respectively. The sludge drying beds’ overall depth is 26 inches and the design
liquid depth is 16 inches.
The Facility also has two historic sludge stabilzation ponds located northwest of the
sludge drying beds. These ponds do not receive or return any flows from/to the
treatment process and only receive precipitation.
Emergency Storage Pond: The Facility’s emergency storage pond is only used in
the event of catastrophic mechanical failures where sufficient treatment cannot be
achieved prior to discharge or if there is a 100-year flood and the treatment plant is
pushed beyond operational capacity and needs additional storage. In the event the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
CITY OF ANDERSON ORDER R5-2025-0011
ANDERSON WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES CA0077704
emergency storage pond is filled, there is an overflow from the emergency overflow
pond piped to sludge stabilization ponds No. 3, No. 4, and No. 5. The sludge
stabilization ponds can be used in emergency situations to increase storage
capacity. The emergency storage pond stays empty year-round, not accounting for
any rainfall accumulation.
The emergency storage pond has a total surface area of 1.5 acres, the overflow
elevation is 403.8 feet, the pond bottom elevation is 396.0 feet, and the total volume
is 3.8 million gallons.
Side streams: All other plant processes with minor flows or decants are piped back
to headworks.
Storm Drainage: Plant stormwater is drained into the emergency storage pond and
removed by pumping to the headworks if needed.
Unit Construction: The ballast pond was constructed in 1972 with concrete and
rebar walls with an asphalt bottom. The ballast pond is inspected during cleaning,
which typically occurs at least once per year. The Discharger has reported that no
defects have been observed. Sludge stabilization ponds No. 3 and No. 4 were
constructed in 1989. Both have concrete with rebar sides and asphalt bottoms.
Sludge stabilization pond No. 5 was constructed in 2010 with concrete, rebar sides,
and asphalt bottom. The sludge stabilization ponds are inspected when they are
emptied, approximately every 18 months, in the fall. The Discharger has reported
that no defects have been noted. The Discharger reports that they have not had to
make any repairs to the original construction of these basins.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

