Since construction upgrades will be completed during the term of the permit, a
description of both the existing and upgraded WWTP treatment is included below.
Existing WWTP
The Facility design ADWF capacity is 0.8 MGD. The PWWF capacity is 2.1 MGD,
based on secondary treatment only. The Facility’s current ADWF (based on August
through October flow data) is 0.44 MGD and the average flow (when discharging to
the river) is 0.56 MGD. The highest PWWF at the effluent during the term of the
previous permit was recorded on 1 March 2019 at 1.5 MGD.
The treatment system consists of headworks (Parshall flume, mechanical shredder,
and bypass bar screen), unlined oxidation lagoons with aeration in ponds 1, 2, and 4,
dissolved air flotation thickener (DAFT) and rapid sand filtration, chlorine contact
chamber, dechlorination system, and a discharge line. The DAFT and rapid sand
filtration unit have a hydraulic capacity of 0.8 mgd. The use of the DAFT and rapid
sand filtration is limited during the winter period (16 November through 14 April) due to
limited hydraulic capacity to control wet weather flows, freezing conditions, and
fluctuating alkalinity and pH with alum used at the DAFT. All other times during the
year, the DAFT and rapid sand filtration units are utilized as part of the treatment
process. Discharge to the surface water during the fall (15 September through 14
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
CITY OF MT. SHASTA ORDER R5-2023-0016
CITY OF MT. SHASTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078051
November) and spring (15 April through 14 June) shoulder periods receive advanced
secondary treatment.
Scum is periodically skimmed from the DAFT unit and conveyed to the backwash
pond to dry. Aside from sludge buildup over time in the lagoons and the material
skimmed from the DAFT unit, the Facility does not generate or handle solids other
than what is removed manually from the headworks.
Upgraded WWTP
The Facility design ADWF capacity is 0.9 MGD and the PWWF capacity is 3.6 MGD.
The treatment system consists of a mechanical spiral screen, grit chamber, activated
sludge with 2-stage aeration, clarification, filtration with disk filters, and UV
disinfection.
If necessary, overflow from the disk filters will flow to an unlined overflow pond on site
before being re-routed back to the treatment train. The Discharger expects this to
occur on an emergency basis only.
Solids are collected from the various treatment processes and treatment includes
aerobic digestion and mechanical sludge dewatering in a fan press. Solids are
collected in covered bins then hauled to a landfill for final disposal.
As noted in section II.E

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes below, the upgrades are expected to be
complete by Spring 2023.
B. Discharge Points and