29. WDRs Order 94-192 included a monthly average dry weather discharge flow of
2.6 mgd. The upgraded Facility’s design influent flow rates are presented in
Table 7 below. The ESB allows the Facility to receive flows in excess of the
design criteria for the subsequent treatment.
Table 7 – Design Influent Flow Rates
Parameters Units Design Flows
Average Dry Weather Flow mgd 2.0
Maximum Daily Flow mgd 5.0
Peak Hour Wet Weather Flow mgd 10.0
30. The headworks system has a design capacity of 10 mgd. The headworks include
two parallel process trains, each consisting of six-millimeter fine screens and a
grit-removal vortex placed within the concrete channel structure. As part of the
upgrades, the screening includes both a washer compactor and grit classifier.
The fine screens are mechanically cleaned using an in-channel rake. A washer
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 9
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
compactor processes screenings prior to being transported to a landfill for
disposal. Accumulated grit is separated in the classifier using a recessed impeller
pump and then separated in the classifier using a screw conveyor for dewatering.
The separated grit is disposed of via landfill.
31. Two extended aeration activated sludge basins were constructed to provide
secondary treatment at the Facility. Both extended aeration activated sludge
basins are lined with a 45-mil reinforced polypropylene geotextile liner and an
under drain and leak detection system was installed under the liners. The
extended aeration sludge process utilizes a longer hydraulic retention time (HRT)
of 50 hours to provide a stable treatment process that can handle fluctuating
loads and flows with minimal operation and without pre- and post-equalization.
Aerobic and anoxic conditions within the extended aeration activated sludge
basins provide biological treatment of the raw screened influent. A portion of the
settled floc from the secondary clarifiers is returned to the beginning of the
secondary treatment process as returned activated sludge (RAS) to assist with
nitrification and denitrification within the basins. Another portion of the settled floc
is removed from the clarifiers as waste activated sludge (WAS). The newly
constructed south process station facilitates RAS and WAS pumping and scum
removal.
Table 8 – Extended Aeration Activated Sludge Basis Design
Parameters Design Criteria
Number of Basins 2
Capacity per Basin >2.5 mgd
Basin Dimensions (L x W x D) 108 ft x 168 ft x 14-16 ft
Volume Per Basin 2.2 – 2.6 million gallons
32. The emergency storage basin provides three million gallons of emergency
storage during extreme wet weather conditions and during emergency shutdown
or failure of the Facility. TUD will minimize use of the emergency storage basin
for inflow storage because the extended aeration activated sludge basins were
designed with several inches of operating freeboard to accommodate most wet
weather flows. In addition, filter backwash will discharge under normal operation
to an overflow weir box connected to the emergency storage basin and intra-
facility pump station. Filter backwash consists of secondary-treated effluent from
the clarifiers. Backwash will travel directly along the downgradient slope of the
emergency storage basin in a shallow stream to drain connected to the
intra-facility pump station. The emergency storage basin is lined with a 45-mil
reinforced polypropylene geotextile liner. Overflow at the headworks is provided
to an overflow box, which is connected to the emergency storage basin. The
extended aeration activated sludge basins also overflow to the emergency
storage basin at the high-water level, at which time the emergency storage basin
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 10
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
will be evacuated using submersible non-clog pumps back to the lift station for
screening/grit removal for reprocessing.
33. Two new 65-foot diameter secondary clarifiers were constructed to remove
suspended solids and discharge clarified water to the filtration and chlorine
contact disinfection units prior to disposal into Quartz Reservoir. Effluent from the
secondary clarifier will be lifted to the pre-filter channel by the filter feed pumps. If
turbidity is high either upstream or downstream of the filters, aluminum coagulant
will automatically dose the effluent for enhanced coagulation. As needed, a
coagulant or alkaline addition will be provided upstream of the clarifiers to
enhance settling, phosphorus removal, and alkalinity stabilization.
34. The upgraded Facility includes tertiary treatment consisting of four sections,
including a pre-filter channel, post-filter channel, two Veolia Hydrotech™ Disk
Filters, and two chlorine contact basins. Filter backwash discharges to an
overflow weir box connected to the emergency storage basin. The overflow weir
box will also be used to recycle out-of-compliance water by closing two
automated gates when post filtration turbidity exceeds 2 NTU (as a 24-hr
average), an instantaneous turbidity of 5 NTU, or when post chlorine contact is
less than 450 mg-min/L. Out-of-compliance water is discharged back to the
headworks until the water meets the aforementioned criteria and is back in
compliance.
35. Two chlorine contact basins provide a minimum of 90 minutes of modal contact
time at minimum water level using a sodium hypochlorite solution. The contact
basins utilize a serpentine design consisting of corrugated fiberglass baffle walls.
Table 9 – Chlorine Contact Basins Design
Parameters Design Criteria
Number of Basins 2
Capacity per Basin 2.5 mgd
Basin Dimensions (L x W x D) 48 ft x 30 ft x 8.5-10.5 ft
Volume Per Basin 92,000 gallons
36. Final disinfected effluent is discharged through a 20-inch connection to the TUD
recycled water distribution system. Recycled water is then conveyed to Quartz
Reservoir and TUD’s recycled water users. This Order covers the Facility and its
effluent discharge to the recycled water distribution system at the 20-inch
connection. This Order does not cover effluent or recycled water distribution and
use past this 20-inch connection.
37. Solids processing upgrades are currently under construction. The old anaerobic
digesters are being converted to include a membrane thickener and two-stage
aerobic digestion (two digesters). Installation of the new dewatering by screw
press is complete. Two existing concrete lined sludge drying beds remain onsite
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 11
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
for emergency use if the new screw press were to fail. Three aerobic digestion
blowers (two duty, one standby) will serve both the primary and secondary
aerobic digesters. The screw press may draw from either the primary or
secondary digester using two dewatering feed pumps. Solids dewatering,
handling, and storage occurs entirely within a new enclosed solids dewatering
building.
38. The two sludge drying beds are concrete lined and overlain with plastic tiles that
collect water from the drying process for return to the headworks for treatment.
Three sand drying beds were demolished. Only the two-remaining concrete-lined
drying beds will remain connected to the digester plumbing system and
headworks, but they are currently not in use and TUD does not anticipate using
them in the foreseeable future. One unlined sludge drying bed exists, however,
TUD has decommissioned it and stated that they no longer intend on using it.
39. According to the September 2022 RWD, sludge will meet the requirements of
40 Code of Regulations (C.F.R.) part 503 for class B pathogen reduction with a
solids retention time of 28 days. Dry biosolids cake is collected in an onsite trailer
that is fully enclosed within the solids handling building until it is hauled offsite for
land application or disposal.
Wastewater Collection System
40. The TUD wastewater collection system consists of approximately 140 miles of
2-inch to 18-inch diameter pipe, flowing by gravity and pumped using 29 sewer
pump stations in the surrounding areas of Columbia, East Sonora, Mono Vista,
Ranchos Poquitos, Standard, Twain Harte, and Willow Springs. The collection
system was regionalized in the 1970’s and pipe materials vary widely including
asbestos cement, polyvinyl chloride, vitrified clay, cast iron, and bitumized fiber
(orangeburg) pipe.
41. According to TUD, the District has an aggressive maintenance program, which
incorporates closed circuit television inspections and timely repairs of defects
within the regional collection system. In addition, TUD staff have installed
thousands of infiltration dishes inside manholes to intercept and collect rainwater
flowing through the pick holes of the manhole covers and has installed several
miles of cured-in-place pipe lining. As a result, inflow and infiltration has
decreased substantially over the last ten years.
42. According to the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment,
California receives about 75 percent of its annual precipitation between
November through March, with about 50 percent occurring from December
through February. However, precipitation in California has become increasingly
variable since the 1980s, with years of high precipitation (wet years) followed by
years of low precipitation (dry years). As mentioned in the preceding Finding,
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 12
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
TUD has implemented measures to reduce infiltration and inflows to the Facility.
However, based on available flow data, infiltration and inflow still appears to
increase flows to the Facility. Therefore, it is appropriate to continue to specify an
ADWF limit for the Facility.
Industrial Pretreatment Considerations
43. Certain industrial wastes, when discharged to WWTFs without adequate controls,
may cause one or more of the following problems:
a. Interference or Upset. Discharges of high volumes or concentrations of
certain waste constituents may inhibit or disrupt the WWTF, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal, and
therefore, causing a violation of a requirement of the WWTF’s WDRs or
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with applicable
statutory provisions, regulations, and permits.
b. Sludge Management. Industrial wastes, particularly metals and other
toxic constituents, can limit available sludge management alternatives,
thereby increasing the cost of sludge management and disposal.
Contaminated biosolids may also be unsuitable as a soil amendment.
c. Pass-Through. Some industrial wastes may not receive adequate
treatment and pass through the treatment system in concentrations that
could cause a violation of any requirements of the WWTF’s permit.
d. Other Hazards. Additionally, the discharge of explosive, reactive, or
corrosive wastes can cause damage to the wastewater collection system
or the treatment works, as well as threaten the safety of workers and/or
the general public.
44. In accordance with California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 2233 and
2235.3, non-NPDES WDRs for all WWTFs with an average dry weather flow
greater of 5 mgd or more must include condition requiring the discharger to have
and enforce an adequate pretreatment program approved by the appropriate
regional water board. WWTFs with design flows of less than 5 mgd may also be
required to develop and implement a pretreatment program if deemed
appropriate by the appropriate regional water board. Generally speaking, the
Central Valley Water Board may find pretreatment conditions appropriate where
a WWTF’s influent from industrial users causes treatment process upsets,
effluent violations, or sludge contamination. Currently, there are reportedly no
significant industrial wastes being discharged to the Facility, and hence no
treatment process upsets, effluent violations, or sludge contamination associated
with industrial users. TUD provided biosolids sample data from January 2018 to
March 2023, which indicated that metal concentrations in the biosolids were well
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 13
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
below pollutant concentrations identified in Table 3 of 40 C.F.R. part 503.13.
Consequently, an Industrial Pretreatment Program (IPP) will not be required at
this time. However, this Order requires the Discharger to report any proposed
new industrial discharges and, if directed by the Executive Officer, to develop an
IPP regulating such discharges. Additionally, this Order may be subsequently
revised to require compliance with an approved program, if necessary.
Water Recycling Considerations
45. Undisinfected domestic wastewater contains human pathogens that are typically
measured using total or fecal coliform organisms as indicator organisms.
46. The State Water Board’s Division of Drinking Water (DDW), which is charged
with establishing drinking water quality standards for the protection of public
health, has promulgated a criteria for the use of recycled water throughout
California, codified as California Code of Regulations, title 22 (Title 22), section
60301 et seq.
47. TUD submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report to the Central Valley Water Board
for the recycling of disinfected tertiary recycled water (see Title 22, § 60301.230).
Central Valley Water Board staff sent a copy of the Title 22 Engineering Report
to DDW on 16 November 2022. DDW has yet to provide a determination on the
Title 22 Engineer Report.
48. This Order regulates the production of recycled water and its discharge into the
TUD reclamation system at the Facility. It does not include reclamation
requirements pursuant to Title 22. Provision I.4 of this Order requires TUD to
submit a Notice of Intent for enrollment in the State Water Board’s Reclamation
General Order to facilitate recycled water use and reduce demand on potable
supplies. WDRs and Master Reclamation Permit Order R5-2002-0202 will be
rescinded once TUD has been enrolled under the Reclamation General Order.
49. Recycled water from the Quartz Reservoir (consisting of treated wastewater from
JSD WWTF and TUD’s Sonora WWTF) is sent to end-users that apply the water
to use areas. TUD is responsible for the operation of both the irrigation system
and Quartz Reservoir. JSD contributes approximately 15 percent of the flows into
Quartz Reservoir. Initial irrigation deliveries from Quartz were made on an interim
basis in 1978 and full delivery commenced in 1979.
50. The JSD WWTF produces disinfected secondary-23 recycled water. To comply
with the JSD-TUD Agreement, JSD is investigating ways to upgrade facilities to
treat all effluent to disinfected tertiary standards while being fiscally responsible
to JSD ratepayers. WDRs Order R5-2021-0046 covers JSD WWTF’s production
and discharge of recycled water to TUD’s reclamation system.
Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5-2024-0016 14
Tuolumne Utilities District
Sonora Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
Tuolumne County
51. There are 23 end users that apply the reclaimed water to approximately 854
acres, including the 252-acre Teleli Golf Course, which still needs infrastructure
improvements to supply recycled water to its irrigation system. The reclaimed
water is currently used for spray or flood irrigation of fodder crops and pasture for
animals not producing milk for human consumption. The two largest use areas,
the Gardella property and the Rosasco property, have been subject to

===PLANNED CHANGES===

