no reasonable potential after assessment of the data:
i. Aluminum
(a) WQO. The State Water Board Division of Drinking Water (DDW)
has established Secondary Maximum Contaminant Levels
(MCLs) to assist public drinking water systems in managing
their drinking water for public welfare considerations, such as
taste, color, and odor. The Secondary MCL for aluminum is
200 µg/L for protection of the MUN beneficial use. Title 22
requires compliance with Secondary MCLs on an annual
average basis.
Aluminum is the third most abundant element in the earth’s
crust and is ubiquitous in both soils and aquatic sediments.
When mobilized in surface waters, aluminum has been shown
to be toxic to various fish species. However, the potential for
aluminum toxicity in surface waters is directly related to the
chemical form of aluminum present, and the chemical form is
highly dependent on water quality characteristics that ultimately
determine the mechanism of aluminum toxicity. Surface water
characteristics, including pH, temperature, colloidal material,
fluoride and sulfate concentrations, and dissolved organic
carbon, all influence aluminum speciation and its subsequent
bioavailability to aquatic life.
The 2018 U.S. EPA NAWQC for protection of freshwater
aquatic life for aluminum recommends acute (1-hour average;
criteria maximum concentration or CMC) and chronic (4-day
average; criteria continuous concentration or CCC) standards
based upon Multiple Linear Regression (MLR) models for
vertebrate and invertebrate species that use pH, dissolved
organic carbon (DOC), and total hardness to quantify the effects
of these water chemistry parameters on the bioavailability and
resultant toxicity of aluminum to aquatic organisms. The 2018
Aluminum NAWQC document provides look up tables or a
Microsoft Excel spreadsheet to calculate the criteria based on
pH, DOC, and total hardness. The U.S. EPA aluminum criteria
have been used to implement the Basin Plan’s narrative toxicity
objective.
A site-specific CMC of 1000 µg/L and CCC of 480 µg/L were
calculated considering pH, hardness, and DOC representative
of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

