1 August through October
7. The treatment facility includes a headworks, two unlined aeration basins that provide
secondary treatment, an effluent pump station, a chlorine disinfection system, an effluent
reservoir, an irrigation pump station, and on-site land application areas. A process flow
diagram of the treatment facility is shown in Attachment B, which is attached hereto and
made part of this Order by reference.
a. Wastewater is received at the headworks, which is equipped with a mechanical
screen.
b. From the headworks, wastewater enters into two 11.8-million gallon unlined aeration
basins. The basins are 16 feet deep and constructed of earth with a blown mortar
slope protection at the normal water level. Settleable solids remain on the basin floor
to be further decomposed by anaerobic processes. Removal of the solids is
accomplished by dredging the ponds as needed.
c. The effluent pump station has a pumping capacity of approximately 3.5 mgd. Flow
from each aeration basin enters the pump station and then is pumped to the storage
reservoir via the chlorine contact pipe.
d. The force main/chlorine contact pipe, approximately 1,250 feet long, provides chlorine
contact and conveys disinfected effluent from the effluent pump station to the storage
reservoir. Effluent chlorine dosage rates range from 90 to 120 pounds per day in the
summer and 100 to 150 pounds per day in the winter months.
e. The RWD states that the storage reservoir has a maximum capacity of approximately
650 ac-ft (212 MG) at the spillway elevation of 1,432 feet. WDRs Order 98-207
requires that the maximum reservoir level not exceed 1,430 feet (two feet freeboard
below the spillway) thus allowing a permitted capacity of 600-ac-ft (195.5 MG).
f. Effluent is stored in the reservoir before it is applied to irrigate the LAAs, typically
during the months of April to October. The LAAs support native grasses and trees.
The Discharger grazes cattle on the LAAs a few months out of the year. As part of
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 3
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
the 2007 Reclaimed Water Disposal Area Expansion Project (Expansion Project), the
LAAs were increased from 242 to 332 acres as shown on Attachment C, which is
hereto and made part of this Order by reference. Although the Discharger has not
assigned names to the LAAs, there are a total of four, which are defined by the
tributary runoff area to each of the tailwater recapture basins. Effluent application is
by a sprinkler system.
g. Tailwater runoff from the LAAs is collected in recapture basins and pumped back into
the treatment facility, as shown on Attachment C. Two additional tailwater pump
stations were constructed as part of the 2007 Expansion Project to capture and return
runoff from the expanded spray irrigation fields. In addition, a diversion ditch bypass
pipe was installed to intercept surface runoff and divert it away from the WWTF’s
recapture (tailwater) basins, which thus increases storage capacity of the effluent
storage reservoir.
h. Solids are generated at the headworks and aeration basins. Solids at the headworks
are disposed of at a permitted landfill. Sludge accumulated in the aeration basins is
periodically removed and disposed of offsite.
8. Influent wastewater samples are collected at the headworks on a weekly basis and
analyzed for dissolved oxygen, pH, and temperature. The data below represents the
2008 influent characteristics.
Constituent Minimum Maximum Monthly Average
Dissolved Oxygen 0.1 mg/L 1.9 mg/L 0.68 mg/L
pH 6.4 7.8 7.2
Temperature 52ºF 77º 66.1°F
9. Treated wastewater is sampled at the end of the chlorine contact pipeline prior to
discharge into the storage reservoir.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

