A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of screening for removal of large solids, grit removal, primary
clarification, activated sludge treatment with secondary clarification, and
chlorination/dechlorination. Sludge is anaerobically digested and dewatered using a
centrifuge and are hauled directly from the centrifuge building, identified in
Attachment C, for land application in unincorporated Sacramento County, California
(Silva Ranch). Sludge digester supernatant (centrate) is routed back to the
secondary treatment works. Since October 2018, the Discharger does not store or
dry any sludge or biosolids on-site at the Facility. The Discharger has a three-year
agreement with Synagro to haul the biosolids for disposal. Drying beds are still used
as necessary during facility maintenance. The facility produces approximately 1,130
dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
1. Treatment Train Configuration. Influent wastewater flows through the
headworks and primary treatment processes by gravity. Following primary
treatment, primary effluent is split between two parallel treatment trains that each
consist of secondary treatment and disinfection (Plant 1 and Plant 2) processes.
The current total plant capacity rating relies on the combined secondary &
disinfection capacities of Plants 1 and 2, which have the following design
capacities: Plant 1: Average daily flow capacity: 3.6 MGD, peak hydraulic flow
capacity: 9 MGD. Plant 2: Average daily flow capacity: 8.4 MGD, peak hydraulic
flow capacity: 21 MGD. The northeast pond, PND-004 can be utilized as an
influent diversion, and emergency storage pond.
a. Plant 1 has not been operated regularly since the commissioning of Plant
2, with the most recent operation of Plant 1 having occurred in early 2003.
The Plant 1 facilities would require extensive rehabilitation and/or
replacement for reliable future use.
b. Plant 2 provides secondary treatment and disinfection for all current
influent Facility flows, with the following total design capacities for each of
the existing treatment processes:
i. Aeration Basins No. 3-6: 11.4 MGD (ADAM)
ii. Secondary Clarifiers No. 3-5: 9.1 MGD (ADAM)
iii. Chlorine Contact Basins No. 3-4: 1.47 hours contact time at ADAM
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

