Sacramento River between 16 September and 14 June. During the summer months,
all treated wastewater is discharged to the Facility’s five percolation ponds. Effluent
discharged to the percolation ponds is subject to secondary treatment standards and
receives that same level of treatment, including filtration, as effluent being
discharged to surface water with the exception of dechlorination. While the
percolation ponds can be utilized at any time during the year, they were never
intended to handle year-round flows due to the impact of winter rains, wintertime
groundwater intrusion, and increased flows due to I&I. Additionally, discharge to the
percolation ponds outside of the summer period can affect the on-site effluent
storage volume available for summertime use. Percolation pond volumes and depths
are provided below.
Percolation Pond Volume (acre-feet) Depth (feet)
1 4.01 6.9
2 6.94 8.8
3 0.97 7.0
4 6.31 5.8
5 2.17 4.8
Biosolids produced in the aerobic digester are discharged to two gunite-lined sludge
lagoons for storage and further decomposition. During the summer months, three
sludge drying beds are used to dry biosolids pumped from the sludge lagoons. The
drying bed system consists of three concrete pads with sidewalls and an underdrain
system. Dried biosolids are transported to a paved, upper area, located northeast of
the Facility for further drying before being hauled to an offsite landfill. Sludge storage
in the upper paved area is temporary; all solids are typically hauled offsite by the end
of October. In addition, there is a drain at the upper paved area that drains any
waste liquids back into the oxidation ditch. The Facility produces approximately
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
CITY OF DUNSMUIR ORDER R5-2024-0009
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0078441
20 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of
the biosolids are regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger received a Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) planning
grant for the Facility in January 2017; the grant evaluated the following deficiencies
at the Facility: proper rag removal, automated aeration in the oxidation ditch with
variable frequency drive, SCADA/telemetry upgrade, disinfection by-product
concerns, and diffuser location. The improvements are dependent upon the
availability of funding. Per the ROWD, the Discharger submitted an Improvement
Project Construction Funding Application in February 2022, and the Discharger
expects to receive a Funding Agreement for the improvement projects.
To address recent total coliform organisms