AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY
7. The Phase 1 leachfield has the following features:
a. The leachfield has five 4,000-gallon dosing tanks. Each dosing tank has two dosing
siphons. The dose per discharge is approximately 1,740 gallons;
b. The leachfield is divided into ten individual leachfields with a total of 21,300 ft of
pressure dosed leachlines. The design leaching rate is 1.35 gpd per lineal foot of
lateral leachline;
c. The disposal trenches are approximately three feet wide by two feet deep. The design
percolation rate is approximately 0.45 gpd/ft3;
d. Each individual leachfield lateral has an inspection riser tube at each end to monitor
the drainage capabilities of the disposal line. Each lateral also has a flow control valve
to distribute an equal volume of effluent to each disposal.
8. Without expansion of the leachfield, no further hookups will be possible once the designed
maximum number of 144 EDUs is reached. The Phase 2 (proposed) 8.6-acre leachfield,
which will be located to the south of the Phase 1 leachfield, has a capacity of 15,000 gpd
and will service 75 EDUs. The ratio of residential to commercial properties will be 1:4.
The Phase 1 and 2 leachfields are both within the 70-acre disposal field boundary owned
by the discharger. The Phase 2 site plan is shown on Attachment C.
9. The Phase 2 leachfield will have multiple construction events and will have the following
features:
a. The leachfield will have two 5,000-gallon dosing tanks and each dosing tank will have
two dosing siphons. The dosing rate will be approximately 338 gpm;
b. The leachfield will be divided into four individual subfields with a total of 10,000 ft of
pressure dosed leachlines. The design leaching rate is 1.5 gpd per lineal foot of lateral
leachline;
c. The disposal trenches will be approximately three feet wide by three feet deep;
d. The leachfield will have 4-inch inspection ports at the ends of trenches and all lateral
risers will be installed at a 45-degree angle to accommodate cleaning. Each lateral
has a flow control valve to distribute an equal volume of effluent to each disposal.
10. The wastewater travels within a 6-inch main line to the leachfield area. The Discharger is
able to control the amount of wastewater sent to the various portions of the leachlines. In
this way, the Discharger cooperatively manages the Phase 1 and 2 leachfields.
11. The Discharger has installed approximately 30 feet of stormwater diversion pipe near
Phase 1 leachfield subarea No.3, and a similar one near Phase 1 leachfield subarea No.9.
By design, these pipes divert stormwater runoff away from the leachfield and toward a
nearby drainage course that allows for the management of stormwater flow prior to
entering Jackson Creek. Aside from leachfield subareas No.3 and No.9, there were no
stormwater diversion measures in the leachfields, except for those ditches previously cut
in order to dewater some of the maintenance access roads. This Order requires the
Discharger to evaluate the need for additional surface or subsurface diversion features in
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003 3
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY
the Phase 2 leachfield, because of the prevalence of steep grades (25% -40%) and the
general proximity of upper leach lines to the top of the slope.
12. On 8 September 2003, the Discharger collected samples of wastewater discharged from
the Phase 1 leachfield dosing tanks. In addition, on 9 September 2003, the Discharger
collected wastewater samples from one of the Phase 1 leachfield lateral line observation
ports. The sample data from each monitoring event are presented below.
September 9
September 8 Leachfield
Dosing tank Observation
Concentration Port

===PLANNED CHANGES===

