C. Soil Monitoring
1. Arsenic loading in soil from RO concentrate discharge to the irrigation ditches
must be monitored. Arsenic concentrations in soils of the irrigation ditch system
must be within risk-based screening levels for residential areas. The San
Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board developed the 2025
Environmental Screening Level Summary Tables for arsenic and other
constituents.
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/sanfranciscobay/water_issues/programs/ESL/
DVNP COW CREEK REVERSE - 11 - WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
OSMOSIS CONCENTRATE DISCHARGE BOARD ORDER NO. R6-2026-0010
INYO COUNTY WDID No. 6B142509005
ESL_Summary_Tables_Rev3.pdf) The table establishes the residential direct
contact screening level for arsenic in soil at 0.032 mg/kg. Soil samples must not
exceed this screening level.
2. The Discharger must propose a Soil Management Plan to address the actions to
be taken to prevent arsenic in soil from exceeding screening levels listed in
III.C.1. The Soil Management Plan must be accepted by Water Board staff prior
to implementation.
IV. PROHIBITIONS
A. Creation of pollution is prohibited.
B. The discharge of waste classified as hazardous (CCR, title 22, section 66261) is
prohibited.
C. The discharge of waste to surface waters is prohibited.
D. The discharge of waste except to the authorized discharge locations identified in
Finding No. 8 in this Board Order is prohibited.
E. The discharge, bypass, or diversion of RO concentrate from the Facility, except as
authorized by this Order, or to adjacent land areas is prohibited.
F. The Facility’s discharge of RO concentrate to a location other than the authorized
location described in this Order is prohibited.
G. Failure to maintain and operate the Facility in compliance with this Order is
prohibited.
H. Failure to immediately notify the Regional Water Board of any planned changes that
would alter the method of treatment or the discharge is prohibited.
V. PROVISIONS
A. Licensed Professionals
1. A California licensed professional geologist must prepare groundwater
monitoring well installation work plans and certify as-built well completion
reports.
2. A California licensed surveyor must survey

===PLANNED CHANGES===

