completed. The existing Facility was designed to treat wastes using mechanical
aeration followed by detention in oxidation ponds. Following treatment,
wastewater is stored in ponds prior to being chlorinated and discharged to fodder
crops via spray irrigation equipment. The treatment facilities are designed for an
average flow rate of 1.4 million gallons per day (MGD), a peak daily flow of 2.1
million gallons, and a peak hourly flow rate of 4.2 MGD.
Grit removal, grinding, and screening are accomplished in the Facility
headworks. The incoming waste is then pumped to parallel aeration ponds (two
ponds, 11.35 million gallons each, floating aerators), and sedimentation ponds
(two ponds, 5.4 million gallons each, nine feet deep). Following sedimentation,
the treated effluent is stored in five storage ponds that predate the existing
Facility (designated as storage ponds 1 through 5) and two storage ponds
constructed in 1995 (designated as storage ponds 6 and 7), with a combined
storage volume of 720 acre-feet. Wastewater is retained in storage ponds 1
through 7 over the winter months and used for fodder crop irrigation during the
growing season.
As described above, two aeration ponds, two aerated sedimentation ponds and
two additional storage ponds were built in association with the 1995 expansion.
The new treatment and storage ponds were constructed with a mixture of native
soils and bentonite and tested by the Discharger to determine soil permeability
factors. Test results at various locations in the ponds indicated that soils met a
permeability factor of 5.4X1 0-7 centimeters/second to limit estimated seepage of
wastewater from the new ponds into the ground water beneath the Facility to
ratesof loss no greater th~;m 500 gallons/acre/day. The older, earthen storage
ponds (nos. 1-5) originally established for CCC wastewater were retained without
modifications.
Proposed Facility:
Completion of system upgrades to increase the ability to treat and store more
wastewater at the Facility is proposed by December 31,2009, to comply with
Cease and Desist Order No. R6T-2005-0016. The proposed expansion will assist
the Discharger to achieve compliance with requirements by increasing the
capacity to treat and store additional waste for agricultural reuse at agronomic
rates. The proposed expansion will increase treatment capacity, as follows: the
average of daily flows for each month will increase from 1.4 MGD to 1.8 MGD;
maximum flow during any day will increa~e from 2.1 MG to 2.7 MG; and the
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -4­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION WDID No. 6Al86000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
maximum flow rate during any hour will increase from 4.2 MGD to 5.4 MGD (5.4
MGD for one hour is equivalent to 225,000 gallons in one hour).
Proposed major modificationsto the Facility include the following: improvements
to the headworks (new course and fine screens, presses to compact inert
screened material prior to disposal), new influent pumps and force main; use of
.60-mil high density polyethylene (HOPE) liners. The two existing, soil-lined
primary ponds will be converted to secondary oxidation ponds. A major part of
the upgrade includes lining the existing storage pond nos. 1 - 5, and the new
treatment and storage ponds with HOPE. New ponds to be constructed with
HOPE lining will include a primary/fermentation pond, two constructed wetland
cells (10 acres each), and three new storage ponds (nos. 8, 9, and 10) increasing
the storage capacity by 480 acre-feet.
7. Disposal Area
Treated wastewater from the storage ponds is chlorinated and disposed of by
recycling on adjacent State of California owned land used to produce alfalfa
fodder for non-dairy animals. Application is by spray irrigation. Rates vary with
season and crop needs, and disposal is proposed to be at agronomic rates for
the specific crop(s) grown. Based on an agronomic report produced by the
Discharger in 2007, agronomic rates of water and nitrogen application may be
maintained while using up t060 inches of recycled wastewater annually on areas
growing alfalfa. For the purposes of this Order, the term "disposal area" and
acreages cited include multiple spray-irrigation application areaswhere
wastewater is or will be directly applied and'the tail water ponds, but not the
protected and setback areas as identified in Attachment "A."
Existing Disposal Area:
Chlorinated wastewater is pumped to approx,imately 320 acres of alfalfa
(designated as the Upper West Irrigation Field, Lower West Irrigation Field, and
East Irrigation Field) located to the north and northeast of the Facility storage
ponds, as depicted on Attachment "A." A portion of the existing Lower West
irrigation field will be covered by the proposed primary pond and the two
proposed wetland ponds as shown on Attachment "A." The existing disposal
area has two tail water ponds to capture field runoff. Disposal in these areas will
continue during and after the planned Z008-2009 Facility modifications.
Proposed Disposal Area:
The proposed disposal area includes the existing disposal area and an additional
250 acres of disposal area (referred to as the North Circle Irrigation Field). Thirty
six acres of existing disposal area will be relocated because of the new primary
pond and the two wetland ponds. The new fields are shown on Attachment "A"
and identified as (N) Upper West and (N) Lower West fields. The completed
Facility upgrades will bring total acreage available for production of fodder crops
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -5­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION. WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
to 570 acres. This addition is expected to provide enough acres in production
such that fields may be periodically fallowed (not used), and will assistthe
Discharger to maintain agronomic water and nutrient application rates on the
disposal areas. The proposed disposal area will include three new tail water
ponds to capture run off from the disposal areas.
8. Sludge Treatment and Disposal
Currently sludge accumulates and is stored in the primary settling ponds and, to
a lesser extent, in other ponds. Sludge accumulated in storage ponds 1 through
5, will be dried to a semi-solid consistency and mixed with soil to create a
substrate for the two wetland cells to be constructed for wastewater treatment.
No other sludge treatment or disposal is proposed by the Discharger. Based on
the report of waste discharge, sludge may accumulate for 20 years or more in the
proposed Facility prior to reaching levels that may necessitate removal. Sludge
may be stored on'site indefinitely in the Facility ponds, or disposed of at an
approved landfill. No other storage or reuse of sludge is authorized by this Order.
9. Authorized Disposal Area
The agricultural application areas described in Finding No.7, above, are the only
authorized disposal areas forwastewater. The authorized disposal areas for
treated wastewater are located on State lands owned or administered by the
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.
10. Reclamation Requirements
The California Department of Public Health has established statewide
reclamation criteria for the use of reclaimed water for irrigation of fodder crops
not intended for use in the feed for dairy production. The criteria for wastewater
used on fodder crops not intended for use in dairy production is found in the
California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60304, subdivision (d). The
oxidized wastewater from the Facility is considered secondary recycled water
and meets these criteria (independently of any subsequent chlorination process).
The Discharger has requested to use the treated wastewater for the construction
of the upgrades for dust mitigation and for soil compaction. The Discharger will
be required to follow regulations established by California Department of Public
Health in California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60307(b).
In accordance with California Water Code section 13523, the Water Board has
consulted with the California Department of Public Health on the discharge from
the wastewater treatment system to agricultural recycling areas. This Order
includes requirements for reuse of the Facility wastewater as determined in
consultation with the California Department of Public Health.
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -6­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION .WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
11 .

===PLANNED CHANGES===

