dated January 3, 2019
• Biosolids disposal information
8. Facility Description
The Facility receives wastewater from residential, commercial, and industrial
developments including pretreated industrial wastewater from the Burlington
Northern and Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway Company classification yard. The Facility
has produced treated secondary nitrified effluent since 1971. Since 2009, the
Facility has been upgraded to produce treated secondary denitrified effluent. The
Facility’s process flow diagram is shown on Attachment B.
a. Collection System and Head Works – The plant has a design flow rate of
4.5 MGD and a current average daily flow of 2.1 MGD. The treatment plant
headworks is equipped with fine screens and a grit chamber.
b. Septage Receiving – The Facility does not currently accept septage waste.
c. Primary Treatment – Prior to biological treatment, raw wastewater enters through
two parallel settling tanks, called primary clarifiers.
d. Secondary Treatment – After primary clarifiers, wastewater is treated in two
parallel biological aeration basins with anoxic zones, and four secondary
clarifiers.
CITY OF BARSTOW - 5 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0252
Wastewater Treatment Plant WDID No. 6B360101001
San Bernardino County
e. Solids Handling – Sludge and scum from the primary clarifiers are pumped to a
gravity thickener. Sludge from the secondary clarifiers is pumped to an aerobic
digester for stabilization. Scum from the secondary clarifiers is pumped to drying
beds. Waste biosolids are dewatered in two screw presses and 10 small lined
and 6 large lined drying beds. All the drying beds have sludge liquid collection
drains that go to the inlet of the secondary aeration basins. The screw press
filtrate is returned to the inlet of the secondary aeration basins. Headworks
screenings and grit are classified and disposed to a local landfill. Dried sludge
solids are hauled to offsite authorized disposal location, currently a compositing
facility located at 14479 Cougar Road, Helendale.
f. Percolation Ponds – Secondary treated wastewater is discharged into eight
percolation ponds on the south side of the Mojave River. The total percolation
pond surface area is approximately 44 acres.
g. Recycled Water – Secondary, denitrified effluent is applied to a 65-acre field
(South Irrigation Field) as recycled water to irrigate crops, predominately alfalfa.
Two fields (North and South Irrigation Fields), previously were used by the
Discharger to dispose of biosolids and secondary treated nitrified effluent from
the Facility. CDO No. R6V-2004-0029 required the Discharger to cease biosolids
application at both irrigation fields. The Discharger also elected to only use
recycled water at the South Irrigation Field and, since 2004, stopped applying
effluent to the North Irrigation Field. A Farm Management Plan, dated
October 31, 2018, estimated an average monthly water crop need of 21 million
gallons (MG).
Based on data from September 2017 to October 2018, the average monthly
effluent water balance for the Facility is shown in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

