The Valley Wells SRRA was completed and open to the public in 1980. The original
wastewater treatment systems consisted of four 6,000-gallon septic tanks and
subsurface leach dispersal fields on each side (northbound and southbound). Two-
6,000-gallon septic tanks northbound and two-6,000-gallon tanks southbound. One
septic tank serviced the men’s restroom flow and the other tank serviced the women’s
restroom flow on each side of I-15. The effluent flow from the men’s and women’s
septic tanks would combine at a central distribution box and feed into a battery of
several distribution boxes connected to five parallel 80-foot leach-lines. There were no
monitoring wells installed when the original leach-fields were constructed.
In 1987, Caltrans discovered that there were frequent backups in the women’s
restrooms and deterioration of the septic tanks. Due to significant increases in Facility
usage, Caltrans determined that the 6,000-gallon septic tanks were undersized and did
not have sufficient storage capacity for proper treatment. In 1993, Caltrans upgraded
the Facility and installed two 24,000-gallon septic tanks and expanded the leach fields
on both the northbound and southbound sides of I-15. These septic tanks discharge
effluent by gravity flow to the associated leach fields.
Currently, both existing septic tanks are in poor condition, and Caltrans determined that
they should be replaced. The septic tank’s effluent filters at the southbound comfort
station are missing. The septic tank’s effluent filters at the northbound comfort station
are severely damaged. The coating on the septic tanks at both the southbound and
northbound comfort stations are peeling off. In addition, the septic tank sidewall
concrete is deteriorating rapidly; continued operation of the septic tanks in this
condition may affect the structural integrity of the tanks.
In 2018, Caltrans constructed a new water supply well that provides water for drinking
and toilet flushing at both the northbound and the southbound comfort stations. Based
on the well driller’s log, groundwater was encountered at 112.62 feet below ground
surface.
CALTRANS VALLEY WELLS - 4 - WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
Safety Roadside Rest Area BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2021-0022
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B361809001
8. Effluent Quality
The Valley Wells SRRA facility receives large volumes of urine, which is a highly
concentrated source of ammonia nitrogen derived from people’s use of this Facility.
The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

