T15S, R14E, SBB&M.
The current wastewater treatment plant consists of an influent pumping station, grit
chamber, anoxic basins, aeration basins, membrane bioreactor treatment train,
ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system, and sludge dewatering screw press, and drying
beds. Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see Table 2) to the
Dolson Drain, a water of the United States, tributary to the Alamo River via Lilac
Drain and Rose Drain, within the Salton Sea Watershed. Attachment B provides a
map of the area around the Facility. Attachment C provides a flow schematic and
site plan of the Facility.
The wastewater treatment plant consists of a single treatment train and a final
ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system. Biosolids are wasted from the treatment system
and dewatered utilizing a mechanical screw press and/or drying beds. Raw
wastewater from the City of Imperial reaches the Facility via two main conveyance
lines: the “N” Line and the “15th Street” line to a central pump sump. The influent
pump station then transfers raw wastewater to the gravity separator, which
comprises two screened horizontal troughs that are manually cleaned. Screened
materials are collected and placed in a dumpster for subsequent transport to landfill.
Treatment Train: Raw wastewater from the influent wetwell is pumped to the
influent fine screens and then flows through the grit removal system. Following the
grit removal system, flow enters the aeration basin mixing box where raw influent is
mixed with return activated sludge. From the mixing box, flow is pumped into the
anoxic and aeration basins. The membrane bioreactor (MBR) follows the aeration
basin where the membrane permeate pumps pull water through the hollow fiber
membranes. The MBR effluent is delivered to the ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system
prior to discharge to the Dolson Drain.
Return activated sludge (RAS) is pumped from the MBR basins to the aeration basin
mixing box. Waste activated sludge (WAS) from the MBR basins is pumped to the
screw press for dewatering or to the sludge drying beds. Any surface scum from the
MBR is conveyed to dewatering basins along with WAS. Dried biosolids are
transported to a landfill following adequate drying.
UV Disinfection System: The treated effluent from the MBR system is conveyed to
the UV disinfection system. The UV system is comprised of one channel equipped
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
CITY OF IMPERIAL ORDER R7-2021-0002
IMPERIAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104400
with two racks in series of Trojan 3000 Plus equipment (open channel) and is sized
for a 3 MGD flow.
2.B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

