9. Wastewater that is discharged at the Lucerne Valley Facility goes through
preliminary and secondary treatment at the WWTP before it is sent via gravity to
the concrete reservoir at the Lucerne Valley Facility. The WWTP components that
are used for treatment are described below and the Process Flow Diagram for the
WWTP is shown in Attachment B–Process Flow Diagram.
a. Preliminary Treatment. Untreated wastewater flows to the preliminary
treatment system, which consists of bar screens, aerated grit chamber with
grit washer, and a flow bypass channel. This treatment stage removes
screenings, rag material, and grit.
b. Secondary Treatment. Effluent flows by gravity from the preliminary
treatment system to three parallel oxidation ditches for secondary
(biological) treatment and timed processes for nutrient (nitrogen) removal.
The number of ditches in operation depends on the seasonal fluctuations of
the influent flow. The effluent from the oxidation ditches flows into a system
of three secondary clarifiers for removal of floatable and settleable
solids/materials. The secondary treated effluent flows to two cement-lined
balancing chambers and then flows to equalization storage ponds at the
WWTP until pumped for offsite irrigation disposal.
c. Offsite Irrigation/Disposal. Undisinfected secondary treated wastewater
is pumped from the WWTP’s main pump building (5.2 MGD) or auxiliary
ORDER R7-2021-0023 3
BIG BEAR AREA REGIONAL WASTEWATER AGENCY
EXPORT OF RECYCLED WATER TO LUCERNE VALLEY
pump building (9.2 MGD) approximately 16.5 miles to an offsite 2.26-
million-gallon, concrete-lined reservoir (undisinfected secondary recycled
water reservoir). This reservoir is located one mile south of the irrigation
site. Wastewater from the reservoir flows by gravity through an outfall line
connected to the irrigation system. In the event of an overflow at the
concrete-lined reservoir, the wastewater flows by gravity to earthen overflow
ponds located adjacent to the irrigation site.
10. Approximately 2.12 MGD of undisinfected secondary recycled water (as defined in
California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60301.900) is discharged to the
Lucerne Valley Facility for irrigation of fodder and fiber crops. Undisinfected
secondary wastewater was approved by the California Department of Public Health
(succeeded by the State Water Resources Control Board’s [State Water Board]
Division of Drinking Water) for irrigation use at this site. Approximately 340 acres
are currently irrigated at the Lucerne Valley Facility, with an additional 140 acres
available for irrigation at the site. The effluent discharge limit of 4.8 MGD in this
Order is based on the capacity of the irrigated crops to take up nitrogen. The
Lucerne Valley Facility site layout is shown in Attachment C, made part of this
Order by reference.
11. The State Water Board’s Division of Drinking Water has established statewide
reclamation criteria in California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60301 et seq.
for the use of recycled water and developed guidelines for specific uses. Section
60304(d)(4) allows the use of undisinfected, secondary recycled water for the
surface irrigation of fodder and fiber crops and pasture for animals not producing
milk for human consumption. BBARWA’s Title 22 Engineering Report was initially
approved on November 3, 1980 and was last updated November 4, 1998, to allow
for the use of tertiary treated wastewater in the Big Bear Area.
12. The grazing of sheep on the irrigation site has been allowed under certain
conditions, as outlined in a letter from Regional Water Board staff dated November
15, 1994, and in Discharge Specification D.18 of this Order.
13. No sewage sludge is discharged at the recycled water reuse site.
14. BBARWA’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from January 2016 through December
2020 characterize the WWTP effluent as follows:
Table 1.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

