conveyed by gravity to the WWRF. The WWRF’s raw wastewater treatment
processes include coarse screens, vortex-type grit removal units, and
cylindrical fine screens (preliminary treatment), flow equalization, followed by
a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system that includes activated sludge aeration
basins with nitrification and denitrification capabilities (secondary treatment)
and microfiltration membranes (tertiary treatment), and Ultra-Violet (UV)
irradiation for disinfection of the tertiary treated effluent. Also, the WWRF
includes solids handling facilities, which include sludge thickening, anaerobic
co-digestion of waste activated sludge and food waste, biosolids dewatering,
and digester gas cogeneration. Biosolids generated will be hauled offsite for
disposal.
2. Conveyance Piping
Following wastewater tertiary treatment and disinfection, the Facility will pump
the recycled water to the Weaver Basins, for surface application, through a
30-inch conveyance pipeline, the Regional Recycled Water Pipeline (RRWP),
that is approximately 5 miles long and is owned by San Bernardino Valley.
The Facility is equipped with a treated wastewater pumping station that
includes a storage tank divided into two separate compartments: one storing
the treated wastewater intended for recycling and the other storing plant
service water. The treated wastewater pumping station is equipped with six
(6) 2800-gallons per minute pumps equipped with a variable frequency drive
to cover a full range of discharge flows, as needed, and send recycled water
to the spreading basins. In the future, through coordination with San
Bernardino Valley, turnouts from the conveyance pipeline may be installed to
convey recycled water to other spreading locations and/or non-potable
customers. In addition, the San Bernardino Valley is working collaboratively
with SBMWD on the development of the extension of the RRWP that will
connect the SNRC and the San Bernardino Water Reclamation Plant
(SBWRP).
B. Discharge Locations
1. Weaver Basins
The Discharger will utilize the Weaver Basins, which are owned by San
Bernardino Valley, to spread and percolate, initially, up to 8 MGD of the
disinfected and tertiary treated recycled water to recharge the Bunker Hill-B
GMZ. The Weaver Basins include five (5) rectangular spreading basins with 9
feet of depth and the volume of each basin varies from 5.5 to 19 million
gallons. The effective recharge area is 15 acres, the estimated infiltration rate
is 7.6 feet per day, the overall recharge capacity is estimated at 37.1 MGD,
3
Order No. R8-2023-0009 Attachment F
East Valley Water District’s Sterling Natural Resource Center
depth to groundwater is 113 feet below ground surface, and the vadose zone
travel time is estimated to be 15 days.
The diluent water source for the Facility will consist primarily of groundwater
underflow that will include Santa Ana River water and imported water that is
percolated into the subsurface at the Santa Ana River Spreading Grounds,
which are located upstream and about 2 miles east of the Weaver Basins.
2. Non-Potable Recycled Water Reuse
The Discharger produces recycled water for non-potable reuse at present and
future use sites such as the ornamental landscape ponds located by the
Administration Center building.
C. Monitoring wells
The Discharger will monitor the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

