c. LAWRP wastewater treatment.
This Facility is a publicly owned treatment works with preliminary, secondary, tertiary,
and chlorine disinfection treatments. The rated tertiary and disinfection treatment
capacity for this Facility is 5.5 mgd and its secondary treatment capacity is 7.5 mgd.
The Facility is located at 22312 Muirlands Boulevard, Lake Forest, Orange County
and treats residential and commercial wastes from within the Lake Forest area of
Orange County. LAWRP receives wastewater through two trunk lines and serves a
total population of about 40,700.
2. Design Characteristics
The Facilities consists of the following treatment processes:
Table 2. Facilities' Treatment Processes
Preliminary Primary
Secondary Treatment Tertiary Treatment
Treatment Treatment
MWRP
Activated sludge (AS) process Addition of Alum prior to filtration
operated in nitrification/denitrification and high rate clarification.
Perforated mode and may use methanol Conventional down flow dual media
Primary
Plate screens augmentation in the anoxic zone at filters, disinfection by chlorination.
clarifiers, flow
and Vortex- the head of each aeration basin Potassium hydroxide pH adjustment
equalization
type grit followed by secondary clarification. capability is provided to regulate pH
basins
chambers Membrane bioreactor (MBR) as needed. Microfiltration membrane
process with nutrient removal technology that is part of the MBR
operated as separate treatment train treatment train followed by UV
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. RB-2015-0024
Water Recycling Plants NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Page F-9
in parallel with AS process. disinfection.
LAWRP
Passive grit Flash mixer, flocculation basins,
chamber and Aerated lagoons and sedimentation sedimentation basins, and filtration
coarse stair Not applicable basins with dredging equipment for with conventional downward flow
mechanical sludge removal dual-media filters. Chlorination for
screens disinfection in chlorine contact basin.
The tertiary treatment design capacity of MWRP and LAWRP is 28 mgd and 5.5
mgd respectively. Recycled water flows at MWRP and LAWRP for the last three
years are listed below:
T a bl e 3 R ecyc led Wat e r P ro d uce d
Plant MWRP LAWRP
Produced, Annual Design Capacity Produced, Annual
Design Capacity,
Year Average Daily Flow, (recycled water), Average Daily Flow,
MGD
MGD MGD MGD
2012 18 17.4 5.5 2.8
2013 18 17.8 5.5 3.8
2014 28 18.3 5.5 3.3
Attachment 8 provides a map of the area around these Facilities
Attachment C provides a treatment flow schematic for these Facilities.
3. Biosolids/Siudge Handling Practices
At MWRP, sludge and scum are collected and pumped into an OCSD sewer line,
then to OCSD's Reclamation Plant No. 1 for treatment and disposal. LAWRP sludge
is dewatered onsite and hauled away for disposal to a compost facility in Arizona or
to a local landfill in Orange County. Screenings and grit are re.moved and disposed
of at a Class 1 landfill. IRWD is implementing a Biosolids Handling and Energy
Recovery Facility Project at the MWRP site, which is in the construction phase and
would treat solids from both Facilities, and includes the construction and/or
installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic digesters, centrifuges for
sludge dewatering, sludge drying equipment, anaerobically digestable material
receiving station, and microturbines for generation of electricity and heat. The
microturbines would operate with biogas produced in the anaerobic digesters.
IRWD anticipates completion of the Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility
by the end of 2016.
4. Recycled Water Reuse and Other Water Sources
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. RS-2015-0024
Water Recycling Plants NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Page F-10
Recycled Water Storage. The Discharger uses a combination of closed storage
tanks and open storage reservoirs to satisfy the demand for recycled water. The
designations and capacities of the closed storage tanks are shown below:
Table 4. Closed Tanks
Volume in Million Gallons
Tanks Name
(MG)
Zone A North 5
Zone A South 10
Irvine Industrial Complex East Zone B 5
Coast Zone G 2.5
Coast ZoneD 5
The open reservoirs hold the greatest capacity and are the primary mechanism for
seasonal storage of recycled water. The capacities and designations of the open
storage reservoirs are shown below:
Table 5. 0 en Reservoirs
Reservoir Ca Desi natio.n:..: __ __- -l
Sand Canyon Water of US
Rattlesnake 359 Water of US
Syphon 180 Water of US
San Joaquin 954 Restricted Impoundment
___.. ....J
On December 20, 2004, the Regional Water Board adopted Order No. RS-2004-
01 07 to add the San Joaquin Reservoir to the MWRP's waste discharge
requirements for storage of recycled water as part of the recycled water system.
San Joaquin Reservoir was converted from a treated domestic water storage
reservoir to a recycled water reservoir. As a treated domestic water reservoir, San
Joaquin Reservoir excluded any surface water from entering the reservoir and was
essentially a restricted access impoundment. IRWD has maintained the reservoir
design features that divert all surface water around the reservoir.
Recycled Water Uses. Recycled water is currently being used for all categories of
reuse defined in Title 22, with the exception of indirect and direct potable water
reuse. Recycled water is either directly delivered to customers through 485 miles of
pipes or drscharged to dedicated recycled water storage reservoirs prior to reuse.
Currently, during dry season, all treated wastewater is used in a wide variety of ways,
including crop and landscape irrigation, industrial process water, wetlands, cooling
towers, car wash supply, toilet flushing in high rise commercial buildings and
community facilities, decorative fountains, and sanitary landfill dust control and soil
compaction activities.
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. RB-2015-0024
Water Recycling Plants NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F -Fact Sheet Page F-11
In the fall of 1997, OCSD, the City of Newport Beach, and the Discharger completed
an 8 mgd recycled water pipeline, the Green Acres Project (GAP) II pipeline. This
pipeline connected the Discharger's recycled water distribution system to the
Orange County Water District's (OCWD's) GAP system to provide up to 4.2 mgd of
recycled water for irrigation, and up to 3.8 mgd recycled water disposal directly into
the OCSD's ocean outfall. In the future, IRWD plans to furnish the excess recycled
water to OCWD's Groundwater Replenishment System during the rainy season.
Treated wastewater delivery during the last three years to OCWD's GAP and to the
OCSD outfall is listed below:
Table 6. Treated Water Sent to OCWD and OCSD
Year OCWD GAP, Total MGY1 OCSD Outfall2 , MGY
2012 422 0
2013 313 124
2014 0 0
1. Flow was intermittent, unit in million gallons per year (MGY).
2. OCSD outfall is used only when the supply of recycled water exceeds the IRWD
system demands.
Other Water Sources of Recycled Water: MWRP is not the only source of water
supplies to IRWD's recycled water system. While the MWRP tertiary effluent is the
largest source of recycled water, IRWD utilizes other sources of recycled water and
non-potable water to augment its supply for recycled water uses.
In the upper reaches of the recycled water system, IRWD supplements the recycled
water supply with unfiltered water from Irvine Lake. Irvine Lake gets most of its
water from the Colorado River and local runoff. This water is chlorinated and can be
pumped directly into Rattlesnake Reservoir.
Groundwater wells within the Irvine management zone are used to supplement the
supply of water in the recycled water system, including wells that are part of
groundwater cleanup activities within the former EL Taro Marine Corps Air Station.
These wells intercept groundwater contaminated with small amounts of
trichloroethylene (TCE). The water is treated by stripping the TCE and is pumped
into the recycled water distribution system.
5. Irvine Desalter Project
In the fourth quarter of 2006, IRWD completed the construction of the Irvine Desalter
Project's Potable Treatment Plant (PTP), Shallow Ground Water Unit Treatment
Plant (SGU), and the South Irvine Brine Line (SIBL). The PTP treats groundwater
through reverse osmosis and the SGU treats groundwater impacted with volatile
organic compounds using air-stripping technology. Both plants became operational
in January 2007. The PTP brine and high TDS treated SGU water are exported
I
Irvine Ranch Water District Order No. RB-2015-0024
Water Recycling Plants NPDES No. CA8000326
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Page F-12
through the SIBL and discharged to the Pacific Ocean via the Aliso Creek Ocean
Outfall (ACOO). Discharges from the Aliso Creek Ocean outfall is regulated by the
San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Board under Order No. R9-2012-0013 .
The product water from the treatment facilities is used to augment the water supply
to IRWD's service areas.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In 2005, IRWD prepared an Environmental Impact Report for the Michelson Water
Reclamation Plant's ultimate expansion to 33 mgd and related process changes. The
comment period for this EIR closed on December 28, 2005. Final Design began in mid-
2006 and completed in early 2008. Construction was completed on the phase II
treatment expansion in 2013 and full operation of the treatment expansion started in
early 2014. The construction schedule for the phase Ill treatment expansion, which
would add 5-mgd treatment capacity, is uncertain.
IRWD is constructing a Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility at the MWRP
site, which would treat wastes from both Facilities, and includes the construction and/or
installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic digesters, centrifuges for sludge
dewatering, sludge drying equipment, anaerobically digestable material receiving station,
and microturbines for generation of electricity and heat. The microturbines would
operate with biogas produced in the anaerobic digesters. IRWD anticipates completion
of the Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility by the end of 2016.
Ill.