current design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 9.5 MGD.
The Facility provides full nitrification and denitrification for nitrogen removal and uses tertiary
filtration followed by ultraviolet light (UV) for disinfection. The components of the treatment
system at the Facility include:
• Design capacity average dry weather flow is 9.5 MGD;
• two bar screens;
• four aerated grit chambers;
• three oxidation ditches;
-2-
City of Roseville 28 June 2019
Pleasant Grove Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2017-0085-005
• four secondary clarifiers;
• six sand filters;
• three UV disinfection channels;
• three storage basins totaling 65.1 million gallons storage capacity; and
• one influent emergency storage basin with 20.6 million gallons storage capacity.
The Facility includes three earthen-lined storage basins (approximately 31.8 acres with a
combined capacity of 65.1 million gallons) that provide effluent storage capacity for a 100-year
rainfall event and are used for storing partially treated effluent for short periods or by storing
only tertiary treated effluent. These storage basins are also used in the event of plant upsets to
prevent discharge of effluent that does not meet discharge requirements. An additional earthen-
lined emergency storage basin (approximately 10 acres with a capacity of 20.6 million gallons)
is used to store influent that could compromise the plant process, as well as secondary effluent
or tertiary filter effluent from plant upsets. Use of the Facility’s four storage basins are part of
the treatment process as described above, and thus are covered by the provisions in the
Municipal General Order, as specified in this NOA. Tertiary treated wastewater may be
recycled in the Discharger’s reclaimed water distribution system or discharged from Discharge
Point 001 to Pleasant Grove, as defined in Table 1 above. The specifications and use of
reclaimed water is covered under a separate Master Reclamation Permit (Order 97-147,
Amendment 2) issued to the Discharger in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title
22 and the California Water Code.
Solids handling facilities include three centrifuges for dewatering. Solids collected from the
primary and secondary clarifiers are sent to three centrifuges for dewatering. Biosolids are
disposed at the Western Regional Sanitary Landfill.
II.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

