requirement.
9.1 DISPOSAL POND MAINTENANCE PLAN
The wastewater treatment plant was not designed with the flexibility to alternate
percolation pond usage. The decline in pond percolation performance has created
some concerns with overall wastewater plant capacity in the past. The current practice
is to scrape the bed of the pond with heavy equipment while the pond still has standing
water, this restores some percolation to the pond however it does not allow for full
recovery of the percolation rates. Tres Pinos County Water District must submit a
Disposal Pond Maintenance Plan for Central Coast Water Board approval to include the
following at a minimum:
1. Determination of the frequency of pond maintenance to occur via establishing
a threshold for action based off incoming flow and percolation/evaporation
rates. These numbers should be provided with the semiannual self
monitoring reports.
2. Developing a short and long term solution to modify the current flow scheme
to allow for full sequestration of a disposal pond for a completely dry pond
maintenance.
3. An analysis of the pond bed soil column (sieve analysis, hydraulic
conductivity, and other appropriate soil permeability tests) to determine if the
pond should be ripped/disked or if a layer of the pond bedding should be
removed and replaced with appropriate soil to restore adequate percolation
rates.
4. A project timeline for work to be completed to restore pond percolation rates.
Table 9. Technical Report Submittal Due Dates
Report Report Due Date
Spill Prevention & Emergency Response Plan March 23, 2023
Sampling and Analysis Plan March 23, 2023
Sludge Management Plan March 23, 2023
Disposal Pond Maintenance Plan March 23, 2023
10. LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
The Central Coast Water Board’s requirements that Tres Pinos County Water District
submit the technical and monitoring reports described in this monitoring and reporting
program are made pursuant to section 13267 of the California Water Code. Failure to
submit reports in accordance with schedules established by this General Permit and
notice of applicability with attachments or failure to submit a report of sufficient technical
quality to be acceptable to the Central Coast Water Board may subject Tres Pinos
- 9 -
Tres Pinos County WD December 23, 2022
Monitoring and Reporting Program
County Water District to enforcement action pursuant to section 13268 of the California
Water Code.
The Central Coast Water Board needs the required information to ensure compliance
with the notice of applicability and the General Permit. Tres Pinos County Water District
is required to submit this information because it is subject to the General Permit and is
responsible for the discharge.
The burden, including costs, of the reports bears a reasonable relationship to their need
and the benefits to be obtained. The requirement for the reports is necessary to ensure
compliance with the General Permit, notice of applicability, and monitoring and reporting
program to protect water quality.
Tres Pinos County Water District must implement the above monitoring program on
January 1, 2023. The Central Coast Water Board may rescind or modify the monitoring
and reporting program at any time. Tres Pinos County Water District must not
implement any changes to this monitoring and reporting program unless and until a
revised monitoring and reporting program is issued by the Central Coast Water Board.
Ordered by:
for Matthew T. Keeling
Executive Officer
- 10 -

===PLANNED CHANGES===

