7. This Order updates the WDRs to comply with current laws and regulations as set forth in the California Water Code (CWC) and the California Code of Regulations (CCR).
8. This Board Order regulates the entire wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system, Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWT F) at Park Moabi Marina.
The WWTF at Park Moabi Marina consists of collection lines, septic tanks, holding
tanks, sewer lift station with pump lines and the evaporation basins, operated
independently, for disposal by evaporation. Solids that accumulate in the primary septic tanks are periodically pumped by a licensed septage hauler for offsite disposal at a facility permitted for that purpose.
9. Wastewater from the WWTF is discharged to one b asin at a time; the receiving
basin is alternated to allow each basin to periodically dry up.

10. Annual precipitation in the vicinity averages about 4 inches per year.

11. The evaporation rate is about 84 inches per year and varyies by season, with
highest evaporation rates occurring during the months of May through August, and the lowest during the months of November through February.
12. There are no wells within 500 feet of the disposal facilities described in Finding No.
2, above. The water supply well for the park, which is located about 900 feet from
Park Moabi Marina Board Order R7 -2016-0017
Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements


3 the basins, has a total dissolved solids (TDS) concentration of about 950 mg/L and
a depth- to-ground water of about 10 feet.
13. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Colorado River Basin Region of California (Basin Plan) was adopted on November 17, 1993 as amended to date, designates
the beneficial uses of ground and surface waters in this Region and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve objectives .
14. The discharge is within the Colorado Hydrologic Unit. The Basin Plan designates the following beneficial uses for ground waters in the Colorado Hydrologic Unit:
a. Municipal supply (MUN)
b. Industrial supply (IND)
c. Agricultural supply (AGR)
15. The discharge is within a groundwater basin draining to the Colorado River. The
Basin Plan designates the following beneficial uses for the Colorado River:
a. Municipal supply (MUN),
b. Industrial supply (IND),
c. Agricultural supply (AGR),
d. Aquaculture (AQUA),
e. Ground Water Recharge (GWR),
f. Water Contact Recreation (REC I),
g. Non-Contact Water Recreation (REC II),
h. Warm Freshwater Habitat (WARM),
i. Cold Freshwater Habitats (COLD),
j. Wildlife Habitat (WILD),
k. Hydropower Generation (POW), and
l. Preservation of Rare, Threatened, or Endangered Species (RARE).
16. Discharges from RV holding tanks or portable toilets may contain chemicals that can pollute

===PLANNED CHANGES===

