WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The Oak Shores Development CSA-7a wastewater is generated from the recreational
community of Oak Shores. Occupancy, and corresponding wastewater flow, varies
throughout the year with highest occupancy, and flows, occurring during the summer
months. The maximum monthly average daily flow for 2017 to 2021 ranged from 41,400
to 68,900 gpd. There are currently 657 sewer connections to the wastewater collection
system and historically 26 percent have full-time occupancy.

The Oak Shores Development CSA -7a collection system includes m anholes and
cleanouts which are typically underwater. The County conducts annual dye- testing for
leak testing. They also utilize flow data to confirm there is no significant stormwater
inflow during wet weather or high lake level conditions.
A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal
system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Secondary Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
Design Flows The average monthly design flow is 100,000 gallons per
day
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment The headworks consists of a flow meter and an influent
manual bar screen
Treatment Secondary Treatment: Wastewater is treated two 400,000
gallon circular aerated treatment ponds which are
operated in series followed by a 1.62-million -gallon
maturation/polishing pond
Disinfection1 NA
Effluent Storage NA
Disposal Effluent wastewater is pumped to two spray field ponds
prior to application to the spray fields. The ponds are 1.8
miles from the treatment plant, the Upper Pond has a
storage volume of 1,319,689 gallons and a surface area of
53,766 sf. The Lower Pond has a storage volume of
2,645,656 gallons with a surface area of 55,355 sf
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling NA


- 3 -
 WASTEWATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
San Luis Obispo County Public Works Department must operate the facility in
accordance with the General Order and this notice of applicability.4 The facility’s
secondary treatment includes two in-line aeration ponds followed by a polishing pond .
San Luis Obispo County Public Works Department must operate the wastewater
treatment system to comply with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

