Pomona Blvd.
b. Primary Sedimentation : Influent sewage enters primary sedimentation
tanks via Channel No.1. The primary sedimentation s ystem consists of
three covered primary sedimentation tanks, influent and effluent channels,
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4 -2021 -0097
POMONA WRP NPDES NO. CA0053619
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED 06/10/2021 six inlet gates, three skimming gates, sludge collection and draw -off
equipment, and scum removal equipment. The purpose of primary
sedimentation is to remove coarse, gritty material, most of the floating
material, and a major portion of the suspended solids from the raw
sewage. Coarse, gritty, and floatable material are removed because they
will interf ere with the operation of the treatment plant equipment and
processes. Suspended solids are removed in order to reduce the organic
load on the aeration system and thus decrease the air requirement for
secondary treatment. The rectangular sedimentation tank s are each 100
feet long by 20 feet wide, with an average water depth of 10 feet. The
volume of the tanks, 149,600 gallons each, provide for the detention time
of 0.718 hours at design average flow (15.0 MGD). The tanks are equipped with removable aluminum covers. Air is drawn from beneath the
covers by suction from the process air compressors (PACs) to provide positive odor co ntrol. Air drawn off the primary sedimentation tanks is then
discharged into the aeration tanks. Primary effluent travels over weirs and
is collected in Channel No. 2 and then conveyed to the aeration system.
Settled solids and floatable materials collecte d by the sludge collection
and scum removal equipment are returned to the JOS sewer for disposal
at the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant (JWPCP) plant .
c. Aeration System: Primary effluent from Channel No. 2 enters the
aeration tanks through seven 21- inch circular openings with diffuser
plates. The purpose of the aeration system is to convert non -settleable
organic matter, present in the form of colloidal particles and soluble
substances, into a biological floc (activated sludge). The floc can then be
settled out, thus removing most of the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
and suspended solids (SS) from the wastewater. This is accomplished by
contacting settled sewage (primary effluent) with a concentrated
population of microorganisms, under aerobic conditi ons. Nitrogen is
removed by a two-step process called Nitrification/ Denitrification (NDN).
The nitrification step involves reducing the oxygen demand of ammonia by
converting it to nitrate. The denitrification step then converts nitrate to
nitrogen gas under anoxic conditions for removal. The Activated Sludge
Process (Secondary Treatment), which comprises the Aeration System,
Secondary Clarification System, Return Activated Sludge (RAS) System, and Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) System Wastewater leaves the
carousels and enters a pair of clarifiers where sludge settling, and
clarification of the wastewater is achieved. The Pomon a WRP was
retrofitted with the Modified Ludzack -Ettinger (MLE) NDN process , which
is a biological nitrogen removal process consisting of an anoxic zone
followed by an aerobic zone. Primary effluent, return activated sludge and recirculated mixed liquor ent er the anoxic zone at the front of the aeration
tanks. Denitrification takes place readily in this zone due to the absence of
dissolv ed oxygen (DO). Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is absorbed in
this zone and partially metabolized utilizing the oxygen made available
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4 -2021 -0097
POMONA WRP NPDES NO. CA0053619
F-7
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED 06/10/2021 from the reduction of nitrite. After passing through the anoxic zone, the
mixed liquor enters the aerobic zone to achieve ad ditional COD removal
and complete nitrification.
d. Secondary Clarification: The Secondary Clarification System includes
six open clarification tanks, sludge collection equipment, skimmers, sludge
draw -off valves and control equipment . The purpose of the s econdary
clarification system is to separate the suspended solids (SS) from the aeration tank as well as to remove any floatables.
e. Tertiary Filtration: Effluent from the secondary clarifiers is discharged
into Channel No. 4 and then enters Channel No. 5 for distribution to the
filters. Mixers are used to condition the secondary effluent with aluminum
sulfate (alum) and sodium hypochlorite prior to filtration. The filtration
process removes fine suspended solids remaining in the secondary
effluent and thus further reduce the turbidity and biological oxygen demand (BOD) levels in the plant discharge. The filtration system consists
of eight deep bed, mono-media, rectangular filters which are 32 feet long,
16 feet wide, and 22 feet deep; a backwash system; an air wash system; a
filter effluent pump station; and a backwash recovery pump station.
Currently, cationic polymer is not added to precondition the secondary
effluent. Sodium hypochlorite is added to the filter influent (pre-
chlorination) to minimize adenovirus and to prevent excessive microbial
growth within the filter bed and in the filter effluent (post -chlorination).
f. Chlorination: The Pomona WRP previously used ammonia and sodium
hypochlorite injection upstream and sodium hypochlorite injection
downstream of the effluent filters to achieve disinfection. However, t he
conversion of the activated sludge process to ni trification/denitrification
resulted in the elimination of ammonia from the secondary effluent. A
modified chloramination is currently pr acticed, which involves the
application of sodium hypochlorite in two steps to achieve disinfection. In the first step, an appropriate amount of free chlorine is injected to a fully
nitrified secondary effluent to provide free chlorine residual to inactivate
pathogens and to minimize N -Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) formation. In
the second step, ammonia and additional chlori ne are added to the filter
effluent to form chloramines. Chloramines minimize trihalomethane (THM)
formation and provide additional bacte rial and viral disinfection. Aqueous
ammonia is pumped from the storage tanks on the north side of Channel
No. 6.
g. Dechlorination: The purpose of the Sodium Bisulfite (NaHSO
3) feed
system is to remove chlorine residuals from the plant effluent prior to
discharge to South Fork San Jose Creek . Effluent not diverted for reuse in
the irrigation structure is dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge to the South Fork San Jose Creek.
h. Solids handling: No facilities are provided for solids process ing at the
plant. Sewage solids separated from the wastewater are returned to the
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4 -2021 -0097
POMONA WRP NPDES NO. CA0053619
F-8
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED 06/10/2021 trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for treatment and disposal occurs,
under Order No. R4-2017 -0180 (NPDES No. CA0053813). Attachment C
is a schematic of the Pomona WRP wastewater flow .
2.2. Discharge P oints and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans on recycling 100% of the treated effluent from the Pomona
WRP for industrial, irrigation, dust control , and municipal purposes , so it filed a
wastewater change petition, Number WW0104, to the State Water Board Division
of Water Rights to change its discharge from the Pomona WRP from 3.3 million
gallons per day ( mdg) to zero mgd. On October 15, 2019, the State Water
Board’s Division of W ater Rights posted a public notice for Wastewater Change
Petition WW0 104. Th e petition was protested by Los Angeles Waterkeeper and
Heal the Bay, collectively, and California Department of Fish and Wildlife
(CDFW) . In response to the protest, the Los Angel es County Sanitation Districts
(LACSD) submitted a letter to the Division of Water Rights addressing the
concerns . LACSD has been working with CDFW and the US Fish and Wildlife
Service over the last several years and with Heal the Bay and LA Waterkeeper
over the last year, to address concerns regarding the potential impacts to
biological resources associated with the pr oposed wastewater change petition.
On November 8, 2019, LACSD released a Final Environmental Impact Report
(FEIR) (State Clearing House Numb er (SCH No.) 2018071021) for the San
Gabriel River Watershed Project to reduce discharge in support of increased
recycled water reuse. On November 18, 2019, the Los Angeles County
Sanitation District’s Board approved the FEIR. The FEIR included mitigation
measures to ensure no net loss of the least bell’s vireo habitat. In a letter dated
September 9, 2020, Los Angeles W aterkeeper and Heal the Bay requested that
the State Water Board’s Division of Water Rights dismiss their protests because LACSD had adequat ely addressed their concerns underlying the protests and all
outstanding issues were substantively resolved. On Octo ber 5, 2020, the Division
of Water Rights approved the wastewater change petition with a requirement that LACSD comply with the mitigation t erms to the Biological Resources specified in
the Final EIR (SCH No. 2018071021).
3.