FACILITY INFORMATION
The following Discharger is authorized to discharge in accordance with the Waste

Discharge Requirements set forth in this Order:

Table 4. Facility Information
Discharger MHC NAC, I~c.
Name of Facility Wilderness Lakes RV Park Wastewater Treatment Facility
30605 Briggs Road
Facility Address Menifee, CA 92584
Riverside County
Facility Contact, Title, and
Phone Dave Lions, Manager
(951) 6724831
Mailing Address 30605 Briggs Road, Menifee, CA 92584
Type of Facility Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Design Flow 100,000 gallons per day (gpd)
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Santa Ana Region (hereinafter

Regional Water Board), finds:

A. Background. On April 7, 1995, NACO West of California was issued waste discharge
requirements, Order No. 95-2, for waste discharges from the Wilderness Lakes RV Park
located at 30605 Briggs Road, Sun City, Riverside County. On February 23,2009,
MHC NAC, Inc. (hereinafter Discharger) informed Regional Water Board staff by letter
that MHC NAC, Inc. has acquired ownership of the Wilderness Lakes RV Park,
including its wastewater treatment facility (hereinafter Facility), and requested transfer of
the waste discharge requirements. The Discharger is currently discharging pursuant to
Order No. 95-2. The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge on April 13,
2009, and applied for reissuance of waste discharge requirements to discharge up to
100,000 gallons per day (gpd) of secondary treated eft1uent to on-site
evaporation/percolation ponds.
B. Facility Description. The Facility is an extended aeration packaged wastewater
treatment unit that treats domestic wastewater from the Wilderness Lakes RV Park at
an average daily flow of about 18,000 gallons per day (gpd). The treatment system
consists of two above ground aeration units equipped with fine bubble diffusers, two air­
blowers and one secondary clarifier. Secondary treated wastewater is discharged into
evaporation/percolation ponds. Waste sludge from the clarifier is currently discharged
to an unlined basin where it is dried and then hauled away.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility. Attachment C provides a
flow schematic of the Facility.
Order No. R8-2009-0046 Page 4 of 13
MHC NAC, Inc
Wilderness Lakes STP
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements pursuant to
Article 4, Chapter 4 of the CWC.
D. Background and Rationale for Requirements. The requirements in this Order are
based on information submitted as part of the application and data from monitoring and
reporting programs. Attachment F, which contains background information and
rationale for Order requirements, is hereby incorporated into this Order and constitutes
part of the Findings for this Order. Attachments A, B, C and E are also incorporated into
this Order.
E. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The project involves the update of
waste discharge requirements for an existing facility and, as such, is exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code, Section 21100 et. seq.) in
accordance with Section 15301, Chapter 3, Title 14, California Code of Regulations.
F. Water Quality Control Plans. The Regional Water Board adopted a revised Water
Quality Control Plan for the Santa Ana Region (hereinafter Basin Plan) that became
effective on January 24, 1995. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses, establishes
water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve
those objectives for all waters in the Santa Ana Region addressed through the plan.
On January 22, 2004, the Regional Water Board adopted Resolution No.
R8-2004-0001, amending the Basin Plan to incorporate revised boundaries for
groundwater subbasins, now termed "management zones", new nitrate-nitrogen and
TDS objectives for the new management zones, and new nitrogen and TDS
management strategies applicable to both surface and ground waters. The State Water
Board and Office of Administrative Law (OAL) approved the NITDS Amendment on
September 30,2004 and December 23,2004, respectively.
These waste discharge requirements implement relevant, groundwater-related
components of the NITDS Amendment; specifically, the total dissolved solids (TDS) and
total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) limitations established in this Order are based on the
amended Basin Plan.
The discharge overlies the Menifee Groundwater Management Zone, the beneficial
uses of which are as follows:
Table 5. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge Point