The Wastewater System was originally designed to treat 100 ,000 gallons per day
(annual average daily flow) to a secondary treatment level and has a disposal capacity
of 100,000 gallons per day. Currently, the Wastewater System is not consistently
achieving secondary treatment level standards. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 2. The Central Coast
Water Board is permitting the operation and disposal of the wastewater system as
described below. Monterey County must not change operation or disposal without Central Coast Water Board notification, and review.

Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary Treatment The wastewater system has a pretreatment headworks
with vertical bar screens that are cleaned manually. Solid waste cleaned from bar screens is stored on site until
transferred to a disposal facility.
Headworks capacity ( gpd): 100,000 (annual average daily
flow) as indicated in old permit.
Primary Treatment From the headworks, sewage flows into pond 2A where
solids settle out. Wastewater from pond 2A flows through a low-flow weir to Pond 2 where primary treatment is
accomplished. Wastewater can also be routed directly from the headworks to Pond 1 or 3 for pri mary and
secondary treatment.
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 100,000 (annual
average daily flow) as indicated in old permit.
Secondary Treatment From Pond 2, treated flow goes into Pond 1 or 3 where a
SolarBee aerator (currently not in use) incre ases the
available dissolved oxygen in the water, improves the biological treatment process, and reduces undesirable gas. Pond 4 is utilized as an overflow pond and receives
very little flow.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 100,000 (annual
average da ily flow) as indicated in old permit.
Wastewater Disposal Method Wastewater is disposed of via evaporation/percolation in 5
ponds that have a total surface area of approximately 6.4 acres.

Depth of ponds, total disposal capacity, percolation
information is unknown.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 100,000
Monterey County
Chualar Wastewater Treatment Plant - 3 - September 20, 2022
Solids Production and
Handling The pretreatment headworks include vertical bar screens.
Solid waste is manually cleaned from the bar screens,
stored in a garbage can located adjacent to the
headworks, and transported to a landfill on a quarterly
basis.
Annual production of biosolids: 0.25 tons
The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is Clean
Harbors Environmental located at 1010 Commercial Street
in San Jose .
 A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3, which were reported in Monterey County quarterly monitoring reports. The Central Coast Water Board used reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

