wastewater treatment and disposal
systems are installed per design. The qualified professional must inspect and
conduct final testing of the systems in operation. County of Santa Cruz must
provide certification of correct installation and operation to the Central Coast
Water Board within 45-days of start -up and with the first annual report.

As-built drawings must be submitted to the Central Coast Water Board within

1 Information for first -time GeoTracker users is available at:
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/ust/electronic_submittal/docs/beginnerguide2.pdf

2 Additional information available at: http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/


Boulder Creek Golf September 30, 2022
and Country Club NOA

- 3 -
 45-days o f start- up and with the first annual report if the system installation
varies from the design plans in any way.
4. Fees – County of Santa Cruz paid an annual fee on March 10, 2022 for coverage
in the existing individual p ermit , Order No. R3 -2001-0034. This payment covers
permi t fees for the 2021-2022 fiscal year.

County of Santa Cruz must pay an annual fee to maintain coverage in the
General Permit. Annual fees are determined by the State Water Board fee
program and cover the state fiscal year of July 1 through June 30. Fees are
charged (and updated) annually and are based on the facility’s threat and complexity ratings. Your facility is currently rated with a threat and complexity of 2B.
 A copy of the current state fee schedule is available at the following link:
 https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/resources/fees/water_quality/#wdr

5. Notification – The Central Coast Water Board will be notified of your enrollment
at a regularly scheduled public meeting December 8-9 , 202 2. Details about that
meeting are available on our website at:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/board_info/agendas/
6. Future Discharge Mo difications – Pursuant to Water Code section 13260, you
must inform the Central Coast Water Board at least 120 days prior to modifying your discharge. If there are any significant changes in either treatment or disposal methodologies, or the volume or character of the treated wastewater, you must notify the Central Coast Water Board immediately of such changes.
7. Responsible Party – County of Santa Cruz is responsible for the management
and disposal of the wastewater in compliance with the conditions of the General Permit. Any noncompliance with this General Permit constitutes a violation of the
California Water Code and subjects County of Santa Cruz to enforcement action
and termination of enrollment under this General Permit.
8. C hange in Ownership – In the event of any change in control or ownership of
the property, County of Santa Cruz must notify the succeeding owner or operator
of the existence of this General Permit by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to the Central Coast Water Board. In addition, the
succeeding owner must submit a Form 200 for enrollment in the General Permit. Once both of these things have occurred, the new owner or operator can be enrolled in the General Permit and your enrollment in the General Permit can be terminated. Contact the Central Coast Water Board for a change of ownership
form.
Boulder Creek Golf September 30, 2022
and Country Club NOA

- 4 -
 9. Certified Operator – County of Santa Cruz is required to comply with the
operator certification requirements3 administered by the State Water Board’s
Office of Operator Certification, which currently requires a certified operator
onsite to maintain and operate the treatment system.

10. Service Agreemen t – Boulder Creek Golf and Country Club has an agreement
in place with County of Santa Cruz, Public Works Department, Sanitation
Division such that a qualified service provider/vendor will perform required
maintenance, sampling, and reporting to the Central Coast Water Board. A
service agreement with a qualified service provider must remain in place until the
Central Coast Water Board agrees in writing that such an agreement is no longer
necessary.

If you have any questions, please contact Danial Woldearegay at (805) 549- 3892 or
by email at danial.woldearegay@Waterboards.ca .gov, or Jennifer Epp at
Jennifer.Epp@waterboards.ca.gov .
Sincerely,

 for Matthew T. Keeling
Executive Officer

Attachments:
Attachment 1: Wastewater System Operation Summary and Site-Specific
Requirements and Limitations
 Attachment 2: Figures
Attachment 3: Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R3 -2022- 0045

cc:
Isaac Bojorquez, Isaac.bojorquez@santacruzcounty.us

Helen Clary, Boulder Creek Golf and Country Club, hele@bouldercreekgolf.com
Marilyn Underwood, Santa Cruz Count y, Marilyn.Underwood@santacruzcounty.us
Danial Woldearegay, Danial.Woldearegay@waterboards.ca.gov
Jesse Woodard, Jesse.Woodard@Waterboards.ca.gov
Jennifer Epp, Jennifer.Epp@Waterboards.ca.gov
WDR Program, RB3-WDR@Waterboards.ca.gov GeoTracker


3 Title 23 Division 3. Chapter 26 Wastewater Treatment Plant Classification, Operator Certification and
Contract Operator Registration.
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/operator_certification/docs/ocr_clean.pdf
Boulder Creek Golf September 30, 2022
and Country Club NOA

- 5 -
 ECM/ CIWQS = CW -210116
GeoTracker No. = GT - WDR100035838
Rev 6/16/22
Subject Name = Boulder Creek NOA 0153
R:\RB3\Shared \WDR\ WDR Facilities \Santa Cruz Co\ Santa Cruz County Sanitation
District \CSA #7 - Boulder Creek Country Club \2022\ For review

 ATTACHMENT 1
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SU MMARY AND SITE -SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS

1. OWNERSHIP AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Ownership and facility information submitted by County of Santa Cruz to the Central
Coast Water Board is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Owner and Wastewater Facility Information
Facility Name Boulder Creek Golf and Country Club
Facility Address 16901 Big Basin Highway
Boulder Creek, California 95006
Parcel Number (s) 086-402-12
Latitude /Longitude 37.151674/ -122.162019
Onsite Manager Isaac Bojorquez
Owner of Facility Boulder Creek Golf and Country Club
Helen Clary
Legally
Responsible
Official of Owner Matt Machado, Director of Public Works
Owner Mailing
Address 2750 Lode Street
Santa Cruz, California 95062
Billing Address 2750 Lode Street
Santa Cruz, California 95062
Permitted Design
Flow (gallons per
day, gpd) Maximum average monthly
100,000
Baseline Flow
(average annual
flow) in gpd 40,000
Operator s County of Santa Cruz, Public Works Department, Sanitation
Division
Isaac Bojorquez, CPO
System control and data analysis (SCADA) system present
Waste type and
Service Area Domestic wastewater from residential homes located within
County Service Area #7 in Santa Cruz.
Threat to Water
Quality 2
Complexity B
Boulder Creek Golf
and Country Club Attachment 1 September 30, 2022

- 2 -
 For Internal Use
Fee Code 58
Primary Place
Type Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Type Municipal/Domestic
Facility Waste
Type Domestic Wastewater
Regulatory
measure Type Enrollee - WDR
Reclamation
Included No
EPA Approved
Pretreatment
Program No
 Depth to ground water is estimated to be 25 feet and generally migrates in an easterly direction. The nearest ground water well is approximately 1000 feet up gradient from the leachfields disposal area.
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The extended aeration treatment system is composed of conveyance piping, lift
stations, sewage grinder system, equalization tank, aeration basin, clarifier s, effluent
pump station, leachfields and SCADA controls system. A summary of the system is
included in Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in
Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
Permitted Design
Flows
Maximum month average flow rate of 100,000 gallons per
day
Influent Average Flow 40,000 gallons per day
Treatment The facility is an extended aeration wastewater treatment
package plant.
Effluent Storage 70,000 gallon equalization tank when needed
Disposal Four Leachfields
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling Solids are hauled from the plant and disposed of at the
County of Santa Cruz transmission line facility at East Cliff
Station.

Boulder Creek Golf
and Country Club Attachment 1 September 30, 2022

- 3 -
 3. WASTE WATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMIT ATIONS
County of Santa Cruz must operate the facility in accordance with the G eneral Permit4
and this notice of applicability .5 below.
A.