C. The Water Factory has an average design flow capacity of 392,000 GPD,
which is capable of generating 371,000 GPD of effluent to be recycled. The
wastewater treatment process consists of primary treatment (vertical fine
screen), secondary treatment with a retention time of 20 hours (two aeration
tanks with nitrification and denitrification activated sludge, reducing ammonia
and nitrate concentrations), clarification with a reten tion time of 0.5 hour (two
sedimentation tanks with coagulation and flocculation, reducing solids),
tertiary treatment (disc filters, reducing turbidity, and suspended solids
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
5greater than 85%), and disinfection (UV and chlorination with sodium
hypochlorite ) (see Figure 3 for process flow schematic) . The sludge (21,000
GPD), any excess treated effluent not recycled from the Water Factory, and
any untreated wastewater generated from the Vista Canyon Project is
discharged to the Saugus WRP and the Valencia WRP . Any effluent not
meeting

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance does not stay any condition of this Order.
10. The City shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any information that the
Regional Water Board may request to determine whether cause exists for
modifying, revoking and re issuing, or terminating this Order. The City shall also
furnish the Regional Water Board , upon request, with copies of records
required to be kept under this Order for at least three years.
11. In an enforcement action, it shall not be a defense for the Ci ty that it would have
been necessary to halt or to reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain
compliance with this Order. Upon reduction, loss, or failure of the treatment
facility, the City shall, to the extent necessary to maintain compliance wit h this
Order, control production or all discharges, or both, until the facility is restored
or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This provision applies, for
example, when the primary source of power of the treatment facility fails, is
reduced , or is lost.
12. This Order includes “Standard Provisions Applicable to Waste Discharge
Requirements” (Attachment C – Standard Provisions). In the event of conflict
between provisions stated herein and the Standard Provisions, the provisions
stated herein prevail.
13. This Order includes the WDRs/WRRs and the attached MRP (No. CI -10041).
If there is any conflict among provisions stated in the MRP and these
WDRs/WRRs, those provisions stated herein before prevail.
14. After a year of applying infiltra ting recycled water into the use areas overlying
the Management Zone 1A of the Santa Clara -Mint Canyon Subbasin, the City
shall update the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan (OMM Plan) and
submit it to the Regional Water Board for review and appro val, if there is any
change to the original OMM Plan. The Water Factory shall be operated in
accordance with the approved plan.
The OMM Plan shall cover critical operational parameters to include routine
testing procedures for optimization of the UV dose for disinfection and reduction
of light -sensitive contaminants, and all treatment processes, maintenance and
calibration schedules for all monitoring equipment, process alarm set points,
and response procedures for all alarms in each treatment process of t he Water
Factory , including criteria for diverting recycled water if water quality
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
38requirements are not met, start-up, emergency response and contingency
plans. During the first year of operation of the Water Factory , all treatment
processes shall be optimized to reduce contaminant levels. The results of these
initial optimization efforts shall be incorporated into the updated OMM Plan.
The OMM Plan shall include staffing levels with applicable certification levels
for the Water Factory operations personnel. Significant changes in the
operation of any of the treatment processes shall be reported to the DDW and
the Regional Water Board . Changes in the approved OMM Plan must be
approved by the DDW and the Regional Water Board prior to instituting
changes.
15. For any material change or proposed change in character, location or volume
of recycled water, or its uses, the City shall submit at least 120 days prior to the
proposed change an engineering report or addendum to the existing
engineering report to the Regional Water Board and DDW [pursuant to CWC,
sections 13260(c) and 13522 and CCR, Title 22, section 60320.080] for
approval.
16. The City shall provide an Annual Report described in the MRP to this Regional
Water Boar d.
17. In order to limit the presence of constituents of concern specified in section II
in the effluent including regulated and unregulated contaminants identified in
Attachments B-1 to B-6 and Attachments D to E of the accompanying MRP,
the City shall, for the purposes of protecting public health, ensure that its
equipment and facilities for treatment and disposal operate at levels of peak
performance.
18. Spill Clean -Up Contingency Plan (SCP) Requirements – Within six (6) months
prior to discharge, the C ity is required to submit a SCP, which describes the
activities and protocols to address clean -up of spills, overflows, and bypasses
of untreated or partially treated wastewater from the City’s collection system or
treatment facilities. At a minimum, this SCP shall include sections on spill clean -
up and containment measures, public notification, and monitoring. The City
shall review and amend this SCP as appropriate after each spill from the Water
Factory or in the service area of the Water Factory . The City shall include a
discussion in the annual summary report of any modifications to the SCP and
the application of the SCP to all spills during the year.
19. Construction, Operation, and Maintenance Requirements
A. The Water Factory subject to this Order sha ll be supervised and operated
by persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to CCR,
Title 23, division 3, chapter 26 (sections 13625 – 13633).
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
39B. The City shall maintain in good working order a sufficient alternate power
source for opera ting the wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. All
equipment shall be located to minimize failure due to moisture, liquid
spray, flooding, and other physical phenomena. The alternate power
source shall be designed to permit inspection and maintenan ce and shall
provide for periodic testing. If such alternate power source is not in
existence, the City shall halt, reduce, or otherwise control all discharges
upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the primary source of power.
C. The City shall provide standby or emergency power facilities and/or
storage capacity or other means so that in the event of plant upset or
outage due to power failure or other cause, discharge of raw or
inadequately treated sewage does not occur.
20. Collection System Requirement s
The State Water Board adopted General WDRs for Sanitary Sewer Systems,
(WQ Order No. 2006 -0003) on May 2, 2006 and amended the WDRs by Order
No. WQ 2008 -0002 -EXEC and Order No. WQ 2013 -0058 -EXEC, to provide a
consistent, statewide regulatory approach to address sanitary sewer collection
systems. The General WDRs require public agencies that own or operate
sanitary sewer systems to develop and implement sewer system management
plans and report all sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs) to the State Water Board’s
online SSO database . The City’s collection system is part of the system that is
subject to WQ Order No. 2006 -0003, as amended. As such, the City must
properly operate and maintain its collection system (40 CFR part 122.41(e)).
The City must report any non-compliance (40 CFR part 122.41(l)(6) and (7))
and mitigate any discharge from the collection system in violation of this Order
(40 CFR part 122.41(d)). The Discharger is currently enrolled under the SSO
General WDRs.
21. Spill Reporting Requirements
A. Initial Notification – Although State and Regional Water Board staff do
not have duties as first responders, this requirement is an appropriate
mechanism to ensure that the agencies that do have first responder duties
are notified in a timely manner in order to protect public health and
beneficial uses. For certain spills, overflows and bypasses, the City shall
make notifications as required below:
a. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code
section 5411.5, the City shall provide notification to the local health
officer or the director of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the affected water body of any unauthorized release of sewage or
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
40other waste that causes, or probably will cause, a discharge to any
waters of the state as soon as possible, but no later than two (2)
hours after becoming aware of the release.
b. In accordance with the requirements of CWC section 13271, the City
shall provide notification to the California Emergency Management
Agency (Cal EMA) of the release of reportable quantities of
hazardous substances or sewage that causes, or probably will cause,
a discharge to any waters of the state as soon as possib le, but not
later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release. CCR,
Title 23, section 2250, established 1,000 gallons or more as a
reportable quantity of sewage. The phone number for reporting these
releases to the Cal EMA is (800) 852 -7550.
c. The City shall notify the Regional Water Board of any unauthorized
release of sewage from the Water Factory that causes, or probably
will cause, a discharge to a water of the state as soon as possible,
but not later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release.
This initial notification does not need to be made if the City has
notified Cal EMA and the local health officer or the director of
environmental health with jurisdiction over the affected waterbody.
The phone number for reporting these releases of sewage to the
Regional Water Board is (213) 576-6683. The phone numbers for
after hours and weekend reporting of releases of sewage to the
Regional Water Board are (213) 305 -2284 and (213) 305 -2253.
At a minimum, the following information shall be provided to the
Regional Water Board:
i. The location, date, and time of the release;
ii. The water body that may be impacted by the discharge;
iii. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released
and the amount that reached the receiving wat er at the time of
notification;
iv. If ongoing, the estimated flow rate of the release at the time of
the notification;
v. The name, organization, phone number and email address of
the reporting representative; and
vi. A certification that the State Office of Emergency Services and
the local health officer or directors of environmental health with
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
41jurisdiction over the possibly affected water bodies have been
notified of the discharge.
B. Monitoring – For spills, overflows and bypasses reported under section
X.21.A, the City shall monitor as required below :
To define the geographical extent of spill’s impact, the City shall obtain
grab samples (if feasible, accessible, and safe) for all spills, overfl ows or
bypasses of any volume that reach any waters of the State (including
surface and ground waters). The City shall analyze the samples for total
and fecal coliform, Escherichia coli ([E. coli ], if a fecal coliform test shows
positive), enterococcus , and relevant pollutants of concern, upstream and
downstream of the point of entry of the spill (if feasible, accessible and
safe). This monitoring shall be done on a daily basis from time the spill is
known until the results of two (2) consecutive sets of bacteriological
monitoring indicate the return to the background level or the County
Department of Public Health authorizes cessation of monitoring.
C. Reporting – The initial notification required under section X.21.A shall be
followed by :
a. As soon as possible, but not later than twenty -four (24) hours after
becoming aware of an unauthorized discharge of sewage or other
waste from its wastewater treatment plant to a water of the state, the
City shall submit a statement to Regional Water Board staff via email.
If the discharge is 1,000 gallons or more, this statement shall certify
that Cal EMA has been notified of the discharge in accordance with
CWC section 13271. The statement shall also certify that the local
health officer or director of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the affected water bodies has been notified of the discharge in
accordance with Health and Safety Code section 5411.5. The
statement shall also include at a minimum the following information:
i. Agency, Order No., and MRP No. ;
ii. The location, date, and time of the discharge;
iii. The water body that received the discharge;
iv. A description of the level of treatment of the sewage or other
waste discharged;
v. An initial estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste
release d and the amount that reached the impacted water body;
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
42vi. The Cal EMA control number and the date and time that
notification of the incident was provided to Cal EMA; and
vii. The name of the local health officer or director of environmental
health represe ntative notified (if contacted directly); the date
and time of notification; and the method of notification (e.g.,
phone, fax, email).
b. A written preliminary report shall be submitted to the Regional Water
Board within five (5) working days after disclos ure of the incident via
the State Water Board GeoTracker database under Global ID
WDR100016910 . The final written report shall be included in the next
quarterly monitoring report submitted to the GeoTracker database
above. The written report shall document the information required in
paragraph section X.21.D below, monitoring results and any other
information required in provisions of the Standard Provisions
document including corrective measures implemented or proposed
to be implemented to prevent/minimize future occurrences.
c. The City shall include a certification in the annual summary report
(due according to the schedule in the accompanying MRP) that
states that the sewer system emergency equipment, including alarm
systems, backup pumps, standby power generators, and other
critical emergency pump station components were maintained and
tested in accordance with the City’s preventive maintenance plan.
Any deviations from or modifications to the Plan shall be discussed.
D. Records – The City shall prepare and maintain a record of all spills,
overflows or bypasses of raw or partially treated sewage from its collection
system or Water Factory. This record shall be made available to the
Regional Water Board upon request and a spill summary shall be included
in the annual report, as required in the MRP No. CI-10041. The record
shall contain:
a. The date and time of each spill, overflow, or bypass;
b. The location of each spill, overflow, or bypass;
c. The estimated volume of each spill, overflow, or bypass including
gross volume, amount recovered and amount not recovered,
monitoring results as required by section X.21.B;
d. The cause of each spill, overflow, or bypass;
City of Santa Clarita Order No. R4 -2020 -0049
Vista Canyon Water Factory File No. 14 -031
43e. Whether each spill, overflow, or bypass entered a