mounding of groundwater or cause the groundwater to exceed groundwater quality
objectives set forth in Table 10 in the Malibu Civic Center Area.
B. The groundwater monitoring well network consists of a total of nine (9) wells within
the southern part of the Malibu Civic Center Area. Two (2) wells (TY-MW-1 and
LAMW-5s) are in Winter Canyon, and provide water quality data downgradient and
upgradient, respectively, of the Civic Center Facility. Four (4) wells (SMBRP-9,
MCWP-MW04Sl MCWP-MW07Sl and SMBRP-12,) are screened in the shallow
unconfined alluvial aquifer. Three (3) welts (MCWP-MW04D, MCWP-MW07D, and
MCWP-MWO9) are screened in the deeper Civic Center Gravels aquifer (Figure 5).
More information of these groundwater monitoring wells is available in Table 4,
Section IV. 3.A. of the accompanying Monitoring and Reporting Program CI No.
10042 (MRP).
15. Surface Water Monitoring Stations
A surface water monitoring program (Malibu Lagoon and near-shore ocean) evaluates the
quality of surface waters and any improvement resulting from the implementation of
Phases I and II. Six (6) stations are located at Malibu Lagoon, and four (4) stations are
located at the near-shore ocean area along Malibu Road (Figure 6). The three (3) lagoon
sampling locations will be evenly distributed along Malibu Creek north of Pacific Coast
Highway (PCH), and the other three (3) sampling locations will be located across from
Malibu Lagoon, south of PCH. The ocean samples will be collected along the beach
adjacent to the southern edge of Malibu Bluffs Park to the mouth of Malibu Lagoon.
16. Contingency Plan - For the Phase I Project, the City has developed an Operation,
Maintenance, and Monitoring Plan (OMM Plan) that incorporates specific procedures to be
followed by operating staff for all potential emergencies or conditions. The OMM plan for
the Phase I Project will ensure that equipment and facilities for treatment and injection
operate at peak performance levels. The OMM Plan contained in the Phase I Title 22
Engineering Reporf was provided to the State Water Board's Division of Drinking Water
(DDW) (formerly the State Department of Public Health) on August 21, 2014. The DDW
approved it on September 18, 2014.
17. Regional Board staff consulted with following agencies regarding the Civic Center Facility
project:
City of Malibu
C~vlc Center Wastewater Treatment Facility - Phases 18 11 Projects
Order Nu. R4-2015-0051 File No. 1 1-08'
A. The United State Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) on April 21, 2014 and
July 16, 2014 - Updated and discussed groundwater modeling results and the
system design of the Civic Center Facility.
B The DDW on December 18, 2012, July 23, 2013, September 5, 2013, and February
12, 2014 - Discussed the method of disposing of the treated effluent via injection
wells.
18. On September 12, 201 1, August 6, 2013, December 12, 2013, February 20, 2014, and
January 8, 2075, the City conducted five (5) Technical Advisory Commitfee (TAC)
meetings to receive input regarding the Civic Center Facility project. Attendees included
college professors, environmental group, resource agencies, City's Consultants and
interested persons. The City provided the layout of the Civic Center Facility, the reuse of
treated effluent, and the groundwater injection locations. The City also presented the
results of special studies, including the model far injected wastewater flow and possible
impacts to Mali bu Creek and Lagoon.
APPLICABLE PLANS, PCILICIES AND REGULATIONS
The following plans, policies and regulations apply to the discharges authorized by this Order to
protect the waters of the state.
19. Water Quality Control Ptan for the Coastal Watersheds of los Angeles and Ventura
Counties (Basin Ptan) - On June 13, 1994, the Regional Board adopted a revised Basin
Plan. The Basin Plan: (i) designates beneficial uses for surface and groundwater, (iiJ
establishes narrative and numeric water quality objectives that must be attained or
maintained to protect the designated beneficial uses, and (iio sets forth implementation
programs to protect the beneficial uses of the waters of the state. The Basin Plan also
incorporates State Water Board Resolution 68-16, Anti-degradation Policy (see Finding No.
24 below for detail). In addition, the Basin Plan incorporates by reference appli~aMe State
and Regional Board plans and policies and other pertinent water quality policies and
regulations. The Regional Board prepared the I994 update of the Basin Plan to ke
consistenf with previously adopted State and Regional Board plans and policies. This Order
implements the plans, policies and provisions of the Regional Board's Basin Plan. The Basin
Plan has been amended occasionally since 1994.
The Basin Plan (Chapter 3) incorporates Title 22 CCR primary maximum contaminant
levels (MCLs) by reference (see Finding No. 22 below far detail) as water quality objectives.
This in corporation by reference is prospective including future changes to the incorporated
provisions as the changes take effect. The Title 22 CCR primary MCLs are applicable
water quality objectives for s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance does not stay any condition of this Order.
I I. The City shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any information that the Regional
Board may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and
reissuing, or terminating this Order. The City shall also furnish the Regional Board,
upon request, with copies of records required to be kept under this Order far at least
three (3) years.
12. In an enforcement action, it shall not be a defense for the City that it would have
been necessary to halt or to reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain
compliance with this Order. Upon reduction, loss, or failure of the treatment facility,
the City shall, to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this Order, control
production or all discharges, or both, until the facility is restored or an alternative
method of treatment is provided. This provision applies, for example, when the
primary source of power of the treatment facility fails, is reduced, or is lost.
13. This Order includes "Standard Provisions Applicable to Waste Discharge
Requirements" (Attachment B - Standard Provisions). In the event of conflict
between provisions stated herein and the Standard Provisions, the provisions stated
herein prevail.
14. This Order includes the WISRslWRRs and the attached MRP (CI No. 10042). If
there is any conflict among provisions stated in the MRP and these WDRslVVRRs,
those provisions stated herein before prevail.
15. After a year of injecting treated wastewater into the aquifers, the City shall update the
OMM Plan and submit it to the Regional Board for review and approval, if there is
City of MEdibu
CRrfoCenter~~rTrsatmantF~i--I& 1Proj&s
Order No. Re201 54051
any change to the original OMM Plan. The Civic Center Facility shall be aperated in
accordancg with the approved OMM Plan.
The OMM Plan shall cover critical operational parameters to indude routine Wtng
procedures for mmizatin of the UV dose for disinfection and reduction of light-
sensitive contaminants, and dl treatment processas, maintenam and calibrafian
schedules for all monitoring equipment, process atam set points. and response
pmdures for all elms in each hdm& process of the Civic Center Facility,
including criteria for diverting recycled watar if water quasi requirements are nd
met, start-up, emergency response and contingency plans. During the first year of
operation of of Civic Gmter Facilly, all treatment processes shdl be optmized to
reduce contaminant Ievf3.3~. 'The t'gsutts of these initial OptimiEirtim eflwts shall be
incorporated into th~ updated OMM Plan. The OMM Plan shall include staffing
I~wk with applicable cartMmtion Isvek for the Chic Center Facility opmtions
prsmd. SiinEficamt chaw in the operation of any of the treatment pmesms
shall be reporled to the DDW and the Regional Board. Changes in the approved
OMM Plan must be approved by the DDW and the Regional Board prim t~ instituting
changes
Six (6) months prior to initiating Phase II Project planning, the City shU submiit the
Phase II Title 22 Engineering Report, with necessary updates, to DDW and the
Regional Board for approval~ The City shall furnish a copy of DDW's approval letter
of the me Il TRk 22 Engineeritlg Report to the Regional Ebard. The City is not
allowed to use any recycled water pior to receiving the DDWs approval letter.
I& For any matetial change or proposed change in cham, location or volume of
recycled water, or its uses, 4he City shall submit at lead 120 days prior to the
proposed change an engineering repMt or addwndum k the wkMg enginwring
mpurt to the Rqiunal BWd and DDW Dtdrsumt to CWC, section '13522.5 and
CCR, Ti 22, Gection 60320.080j for wpprwal, The Title 22 Engineering Repopt
shatl be prepared by a qu4f1 engineer artd geolqlst, registerad ur cemd in the
Stab of CallfmL. Hwemr, replacement of injection wells will nut require a report
of material change, or filing of a new Report of Waste Discharge,
17. The CQ shall provide an Annuai RepoPt described in the MRP fo Uris Rergbnal
Board.
18. fn Mdgr to limif the presetwe of w- of concerns specif~d in Sedan II in the
effluent and the recyded watw including regulated and unregulated contaminants
identifwd in Attachments A1 to A5 and Attachments C to E uf the accompanying
MRP, the City shall, for the purposes of pmtdng publi~ heah, ensure that its
equipment and faciliti far treatment and disposal operate at tts of peak
performanae.
19. Spill Clean-Up Contingency Plan (SCP) Requirements - Within ninety (80) days, the
Ci is required to submit a SCP, which desuibes the am and protacols to
address clean-up of spills, overflows, and byp~sees of unkeakd or partially treated
wastewater from the Cis dkction system or treatment facilities. At a minimum,
this SCP shal iraclude sections on spill clean-up and containment measures, public
notification, and munitudng. The City shall dew and amend this 6CP a9
City of Malibu
Civic Center Wastewater Treatment facility - Phases I & II Projects
Order No. R4-2015-005 1 File No. 1 1-087
appropriate after each spill from the Civic Center Facility or in the service area of the
Civic Center Facility. The City shall include a discussion in the annual summary
report of any modifications to the SCP and the application of the SCP to all spills
during the year.
Construction, Operation, and Maintenance Requirements
A. The Civic Center Facility subject to this Order shall be supervised and operated
by persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to CCR, Title
23, division 3, chapter 26 (Section 1 3625 - 1 3633).
B. The City shall maintain in good working order a sufficient alternate power
source for operating the wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. All
equipment shall be located to minimize failure due to moisture, liquid spray,
flooding, and other physical phenomena. The alternate power source shall be
designed to permit inspection and maintenance and shall provide for periodic
testing. If such alternate power source is not in existence, the City shall halt,
reduce, or otherwise control all discharges upon the reduction, loss, or failure
of the primary source of power.
C. The City shall provide standby or emergency power facilities andlor storage
capacity or other means so that in the event of plant upset or outage due to
power failure or other cause, discharge of raw or inadequately treated sewage
does not occur.
Sludge Disposal Requirements
A. All sludge generated at the wastewater treatment plant will be disposed of,
treated, or applied to land in accordance with federal regulations contained in
40 CFR part 503. These requirements are enforceable by USEPA.
B. The City shall ensure compliance with the requirements in State Water Board
Order No. 2004-1 0-DWQ, "General Waste Discharge Requirements for the
Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural,
Silvicultural, Horficultural and Land Reclamation Activities" for those sites
receiving the City's biosolids which a Regional Water Quality Control Board has
placed under this general order, and with the requirements in individual Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) issued by a Regional Board for sites
receiving the City's biosolids.
C. The City shall comply, if applicable, with WDRs issued by other Regional
Boards to which jurisdiction the biosolids are transported and applied.
D. The City shall furnish this Regional Board with a copy of any report submitted
to USEPA, the State Water Board or other Regional Board, with respect to
municipal sludge or biosolids.
Collection System Requirements
The State Water Board adopted General WDRs for Sanitary Sewer Systems, (WQ
Order No. 2006-0003) on May 2, 2006, to provide a consistent, statewide regulatory
Cily of kteh
CiVk Cb* WaslevAsvter Tm~t F~Yltgr- Phes~e% I % U Pm
Ordst No. R4-rm-51
approach to address SSO. The SSO WDRs require public agencies that awn or
operate sanitary sewer syMems to develop and implement sewer system
management plans and report all SSOs to the State Water Board's online SSO
database. The Cis collection system is part of the system that is subject to the WQ
Order Na 260M003. As such, the City must properly operate and maintain its
colfdion system (40 CFR part 122.41(e)). The City must report any now
compliance (4140 CFR pad 122.41(1)(6) and (7)) and mitigate any discharge ftom the
coilectlon system in vidation of this Order (40 CFR part 122.41(d)).
Spill Reporting Requirements
A, lnltial Ma%ificatiorr - Athaugh State and Regional Board staff do nd have
duties as first responders, this requirement is an appropriate mechanism to
ensure that the agencies that do have first responder duties ate ndtfted in a
timely manner in order to protect public health and beneficial uses. Fw certain
$pills, meflows and bypasses, the City shall make notificatbm as required
below:
a. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code section
5411.5, the Ci shall provide notification to the local health officer or the
director of environmental heatth with jurisdiction over the affected water
body of any unauthorized release of sewage or other waste that causes,
or probably will cause, a dbcha~e to any waters of the state as soon as
possible, but no later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the
release.
In accordance with the requirements of CWC section 3 3271, !he City shall
provide notification to £he California Emergency Maarapd Agency
(Gal EMA] of the release of reportable quantities af hazardous
substances or sewage that causes, or probably wB cause, a discharge to
any waters of the state as soan as possible, but not later than two (2)
hour8 alter hmnlng aware of the release, CCR, Titte 23, don 2250,
established 1,000 gallons or more as a reportable quantity of sewage.
The phbne number for reporting these releases to the Cal EMA is (800)
852-7550.
c. The Ci shall not@ the Regional Board of any unauthorized releatie of
sewage from the Civic Center Facility that causes, or probably will cause,
a discharge to a water d the state as soon as possibk but not later than
two (2) hours after bcorning awaE of the release. This initial notification
does not need to be made if the City has notified Cal EMA and the local
health oEmr or the dir of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the aed waterbody. The phone number for reporbing these releases of
sewage to the Regional Board is (213) 5764683. The phone numbers for
affer how and weekend reporting of releases of sewage to the Regional
Board are (21 3) 305-2284 and (21 3) 305-2253.
At a minimum, the blowing information shan be provided to the Regional
Board:
City of MBbu
Wk C@ntBr Wa- TteatmeRt F* - Ph- I & II P@8&
Order No. Re201 5mi
i. The location, date, and time of the release:
ii. The mter body that may be impacted by the discharge;
iii. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released and
the amount that rBa~hed the