24 pump stations, 18 miles of force mains, and serves 4 million residents and
several cities and agencies under contractual agreeme nts. Approximately 85% of
HWRP’s influent flow consists of residential, commercial, and industrial
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 5wastewater from the City of Los Angeles ; the remaining 15% comes from the
contract cities and agencies.
The HWRP is a full secondary wastewater treatment pl ant designed to treat a
maximum daily dry weather flow of 450 million gallon s per day ( mgd) and a peak
wet weather flow of 850 mgd. The treatment process at the HWRP consists of
preliminary treatment (bar screens, grit chamber), primary treatment
(coagulat ion, flocculation, primary sedimentation), secondary treatment
(activated sludge and clarification), and solids handling. The secondary -treated
effluent from HWRP is discharged to the Santa Monica Bay and is regulated
under National Pollutant Discharge Eli mination System (NPDES) Permit No.
CA0109991.
1.3. Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility
The HAWPF will have the capacity to treat up to 2 mgd of primary -treated
wastewater from the HWRP to produce up to 1.5 mgd of advanced -treated
recycled water (recycled water) . The process flow diagram is depicted in
Attachment B. The HAWPF treatment process will consist of fine screens,
membrane bioreact ors (MBR), reverse osmosis (RO), and an ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection/advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP) , and post -treatment
stabilization . The HAWPF will also include multiple pump stations, a chemical
storage facility, a 125,000 -gallon product water tan k, and a distribution network.
During normal operation, 100% of the recycled water will be beneficially reused
for non -potable applications at LAX and within HWRP.
Preliminary Treatment – After primary treatment at the HWRP, the primary
effluent is conve yed to the Intermediate Pump Station East and West (IPS -E &
IPS-W), a portion of which will be conveyed to the HAWPF for advanced
treatment . A set of two pumps will be installed on the operating floor of each side
of the IPS influent channel . Each pair of pumps will be capable of drawing water
from the respective primary effluent channel. Lines from IPS -E and IPS -W
channels will each be equipped with a flowmeter and conductivity and ammonia
probes. Fine screens will be provid ed upstream of the MBR tanks to remove
particulate material to avoid damag ing the membranes. A horizontal -packaged
drum screen system with a sluiceway for screening disposal will be used to
control odors. The screenings will be periodically dislodged from the screens and
conveyed to the waste return pump station and back to the HWRP IPS afterbay .
MBR Process - The MBR system will consist of two parallel biological nutrient
removal tanks and three parallel membrane tanks. The MBR process will consist
of bio logical treatment utilizing anoxic, aerobic, and deoxygenation tanks ,
followed by submerged membrane ultrafiltration. The MBR process will remove
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand, nitrogen through nitrification and
denitrification, and microbial soli ds removal through membrane separation. The
biological treatment tanks will consist of two baffled anoxic zones followed by two
aerobic zones. A deoxygenation zone will be included upstream of the anoxic
zones so that residual dissolved oxygen from the mem brane tanks will be
consumed biologically before returning to the anoxic zones. Membrane
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 6separation to remove microbial solids will consist of three parallel covered
membrane tanks, membranes, and MBR auxiliary equipment.
RO Process - RO removes large mole cular weight dissolved organic and
inorganic compounds and pathogens by forcing MBR effluent through a
semipermeable membrane under a higher pressure than the osmotic pressure of
the solution. The HAWPF RO system will consist of an RO feed tank, feed
pumps , pretreatment (chloramine injection , sulfuric acid and antiscalant addition ),
cartridge filters, two RO trains, and RO membrane cleaning and flushing. There
will be two RO trains, each with a design capacity of 0.75 mgd, which will operate
continuously at a constant flux. Each RO train will have two stages designed to
achieve a recovery of up to 85% and to produce 0.75 mgd of RO permeate. RO
feed pumps will pump MBR e ffluent stored in the RO feed tank through cartridge
filters and into the RO membranes. The RO concentrated stream will be
conveyed back to the HWRP IPS afterbay . Permeate from the RO membranes
will flow to the UV/AOP treatment process. Chloramine will be injected after the
RO feed tank to prevent biological fouling of the RO membranes. Sulfuric acid
and antiscalant will be injected after the RO feed tank to control mineral scaling
of the RO membranes. Cartridge filters will be provided upstream of the RO
membranes to remove particulate matter. Chemical cleaning and removal of
particles, mineral scale, and biological film from the RO membrane will be
perform ed to avoid head loss and the resulting increase in energy use.
UV/AOP - The primary functions of UV/A OP include pathogen inactivation and
destruction and removal of trace organic compounds. The UV/AOP process will
provide additional treatment to control taste and odor compounds if needed.
Chloramine will be dosed upstream of the UV reactors (two on duty a nd one
standby) to generate hydroxyl radicals to eliminate the need for an additional
chemical onsite and to provide a chlorine residual to achieve additional
disinfection in the effluent pipeline. The UV system will use low -pressure high -
output lamps with an emissions wavelength peak at about 254 nanometers (nm).
For non -potable water reuse applications using RO permeate, the California
State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking
Water (DDW) requires a UV dose of 50 millijo ules per square centimeter
(mJ/cm2) under conditions with fouled lamp sleeves and aged UV lamps. This will
provide 5 -log removal of poliovirus, which is the California virus reduction
requirement for non -potable water reuse. Considering potential future ap plication
of the HAWPF product for potable reuse, the UV dose planned for the HAWPF
will be scalable so that it can meet at least the non -potable reuse set point of 50
mJ/cm2 but also achieve potable reuse requirements (not less than 800 mJ/cm2).
Post -treatment Stabilization - Post-treatment stabilization includes calcite
contactors, which will be located upstream of the product water pump station and
will be used to adjust pH, add alkalinity and hardness, and stabilize the water
quality to prevent adverse effects within the distribution system. Calcite and
sodium hydroxide will be used for adjustment of pH, alkalinity, and hardness.
Sodium hypochlorite and liquid ammonium sulfate will be added post -stabilization
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 7to provide a 2 milligrams per liter ( mg/L ) chloramine residual in the product water
tank and the distribution piping.
Odor Control - Odor from three foul air streams (fine screens, biological nutrient
removal basins, and MBR tanks) will be captured, combined , and conveyed to a
single odor control unit consisting of a single -bed carbon adsorber, which will
remove hydrogen sulfide and a variety of organic sulfides that are commonly
emitted from primary effluent screens and the biological nutrient removal and
MBR processes.
Product Recycled Water Delivery - HAWPF recycled water will be pumped to
the product water tank for storage and eq ualization. The product water tank will
be a 125,000 -gallon cast -in-place concrete tank that will store the equivalent of
one production train at 0.75 mgd for four hours . The product water export pump
station will pump the recycled water into the water dis tribution network for export
to LAX. Vertical turbine pumps installed on the deck of the product water tank will
pump product water to LAX , the HWRP industrial water wet well , HWRP
Technical Supporting Facility (TSF), and other HWRP internal uses . Three
pumps will be provided, each rated at 0.75 mgd and designed to meet the
required head at the LAX connection point on Imperial Highway. LADWP is
entitled to receive up to 0.75 mgd of recycled water for distribution to LAX.
Excess recycled product water not us ed by LAX will be diverted to supplement
HWRP’s industrial water supply. A potable backup supplemental water supply
will be provided to meet the peak demands of end users in excess of produced
recycled water or provide a backup supply if there are interrup tions in the
production of recycled water. If HAWPF is unable to produce and deliver
recycled water ( due to off-spec product water , power outage, etc.), product water
will be shut down or directed to the HWRP IPS and potable water wil l be
delivered to the product water tank to ensure that the delivery of water is not
interrupted. Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ), the governing authority that
owns and operates the LAX, also plans to install a backup storage tank in the
event of a long -term HAWPF recycled water outage. The connection between
LADWP and the potable backup line has several protections in place to prevent
cross -connection , including two reduced -pressure backflow prevention
assemblies installed in series at the connection point with the LADWP recycled
water pipeline 100 feet west of Gate A on the HWRP property boundary and an
air gap in the HAWPF Product Water Tank .
Waste Stream - The waste streams generated from the HAWPF will be routed to
the waste return pump station , which will colle ct waste discharges if equipment
fails or if water quality requirements are not achieved. The waste return pump
station will pump all combined waste discharges back to the afterbay of the IPS
for additional treatment at the HWRP . Waste discharges include M BR waste
activated sludge, brine reject from RO, chemical wastes, off -spec product water,
and overflows. The chemical wastes include waste from the membrane RO
cleaning, wash down, and spillage or leaks within the chemical containment
area. The waste strea ms from drains, screenings, overflows, and neutralization
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 8that require disposal will be discharged back to the IPS effluent channel with
proper care to avoid recirculation. Waste streams generated at or after the RO
feed tank will be routed to the waste re turn pump station and an air gap will
prevent cross -connection and backflow. These waste streams include overflow
and/or off -spec water from the RO feed tank, RO permeate, UV/AOP effluent,
and product water tank and wastes from cleaning and flushing operat ions.
2. RECYCLED WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
The Permittees will treat primary effluent from HWRP at the HAWPF to generate
advanced treated recycled water . The HAWPF will provide up to 0.75 mgd of
recycled water to LADWP for distribution to LAX. Recycled water will be conveyed to
LAX’s Central Utility Plant, where it will be used for cooling and toilet flushing at
Midfield Satellite Concourse and Bradley We st Terminals and at future terminals and
buildings retrofitted for dual plumbing. The Permittees also expect to use 0.75 mgd of
recycled water for industrial and other non -potable uses at HWRP . Recycled water
produced in excess of LAX’s fluctuating demand will be diverted to the HWRP
industrial water wet well. HWRP industrial processes (boilers) that require high quality
source water currently use potable water. The HAWPF will produce enough recycled
water to replace HWRP’s industrial water demand for boile r feedwater , odor
scrubbing, toilet flushing, landscape irrigation, and other industrial uses within HWRP.
Table 3 below lists the expected uses of recycled water from the HAWPF. Prior to
delivering water for any of these uses, the Permittees shall update their Title 22
Engineering Report , as required in section 12.14 below, to include designs for these
uses, submit DDW’s conditional approval of the Title 22 Engineering Report to the
Los Angeles Water Board, and receive approval from the Los Angeles Water Board
to deliver the recycled water for the new uses.
Table 3. Advanced -Treated Recycled Water Uses
Recycled water use Recycled water user Location
Industrial boiler
feedwaterLASAN, LAWA HWRP, LAX
Sewer flushing LASAN HWRP
Toilet flushing LASAN, LAWAHWRP, LAX Bradley
Terminal and Midfield
Satellite Concourse
Terminal
Irrigation LASAN HWRP
Pump seals,
centrifuge seal,
polymer dilutionLASAN HWRP
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 9Recycled water use Recycled water user Location
Street sweeping , dust
controlCity of Los Angeles Bureau of
Street Services, Bureau of
Engineering, City of Los Angeles -
authorized private contractors--
Vehicle and
equipment washing ,
airplane water
cannon saluteLAWA --
FirefightingCity of Los Angeles Fire
Department--
Cooling towers
makeup waterLAWA LAX Central Utility Plant
3. HAWPF ADVANCED -TREATED RECYCLED WATER QUALITY
3.1. The treatment process at the HAWPF will produce recycled water that consists of
disinfected advanced -treated effluent.
3.2. The level of treatment provided to the primary effluent at the HAWPF will
produce advanced -treated recycled water that will meet disinfected tertiary
recycled water standards [Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (22
CCR) , § 60301.230 ] for non -potable uses.
3.3. The turbidity of the recycled water produced at the HAWPF will not exceed 0.2
nephelometric turbidity unit (NTU) more than 5 percent of the time within a 24 -
hour period and 0.5 NTU at any time (22 CCR, § 60301.320(b)) .
3.4. The HAWPF UV/ AOP disinfection process will maintain a minimum dose of 50
millijoules per square centimeter (mJ/cm2) at all times to achieve total coliform
concentration of <2.2 most probable number ( MPN )/100 milliliter ( mL) and 5 -log
virus removal.
4. GROUNDWATER BASIN
4.1. Recycled water used for irrigation at HWRP may percolate into the Coastal Plain
of Los Angeles West Coast groundwater basin (West Coast Basin) . The West
Coast Basin is bounded by the Newport ‐Inglewood Upl ift on the northeast, by the
Santa Monica Basin on the north, and by the Pacific Ocean, Palos Verdes Hills,
and the Los Angeles ‐Orange County line on the southwest and south. In the
West Coast Basin, aquifers are generally confined, and natural replenishme nt is
dominated by subsurface inflows. Groundwater pumping constitutes the major
outflow from the basin and the Silverado Aquifer is the most productive aquifer in
the basin. Overall, production wells in the basin yield good quality groundwater.
Localized areas of marginal to poor water quality exist, primarily at the basin
margins and in the shallower and deeper aquifers impacted by seawater
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 10intrusion. Recycled water will be stored in product water tank s prior to delivery to
use sites at LAX and HWRP , and therefore the storage of recycled water will not
impact groundwater. The only potential percolation into groundwater may occur
during irrigation on -site at HWRP and d uring irrigation, recycled water will be
applied at agronomic rates . Since the soil, clim ate, and plant demands will be
considered when applying recycled water to land, a negligible amount of recycled
water is expected to pass below plants’ root zone and will therefore have a
minimal impact on the groundwater quality .
5. PURPOSE OF ORDER
5.1. On April 4, 2019, LASAN submitted to the Los Angeles Water Board and DDW a
Title 22 Engineering Report for the HAWPF, which was conditionally accepted by
DDW on April 8, 2019 , and approved by the Los Angeles Water Board on April
23, 2019. On March 15, 2021, LASAN submitted a revised Title 22 Engineering
Report for the HAWPF to incorporate design changes. After several iterations of
comments and revisions, LASAN submitted a final Title 22 Engineering Report
for the HAWPF on October 23, 2021 , which was conditionally accepted by DDW
on October 25, 2021, and was accepted by the Los Angeles Water Board on
October 28, 2021.
5.2. On September 21, 2022, LASAN submitted a notice of intent (NOI) to enroll in
the State Water Board Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW ( Water Reclamation
Requirements for Recycled Water Use ) for the HAWPF. The Los Angeles Water
Board issued an incomplete NOI letter on November 9, 2022, and received the
updated NOI from LASAN on December 30, 2022. After reviewing all the
information submitted by LASAN , the Los Angeles Water Board has determined
that the HAWPF cannot be enrolled in order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW because the
general order does not regulate the treatment of wastewater (see section 25 of
order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW). Since the HAWPF is a separate wastewater
treatment plant from the HWRP, it needs an individual order to regulate the
treatment of wastewater and operations of the Facility . On February 24, 2023,
the Los Angeles Water Board issued a response letter to the NOI and re quested
that LASAN complete and submit Form 200 to apply for an individual permit for
the HAWPF . On March 15, 2023, LASAN submitted the completed Form 200,
which combined with the NOI and other supporting information, serves as the
Report of Waste Discharg e (ROWD) required for application for an individual
permit. The application was deemed complete by the Los Angeles Water Board
on May 15 , 2023. A site visit was conducted on August 9, 2023 to observe the
operations and collect additional data for developin g permit limitations and
requirements for the waste discharge.
6. REGULATION OF RECYCLED WATER
6.1. The State Water Board, including DDW, and the regional water boards have
authority to oversee recycled water use. DDW is the agency with the primary
responsibility for establishing water recycling criteria under 22 CCR to protect
public health. The State Water Board and the regional water boards are
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 11responsible for issuing WDRs and WRRs for water that is used or proposed to
be used as recycled water.
6.2. On January 6, 1977, the State Water Board adopted Resolution No. 77 -1, Policy
with Respect to Water Reclamation in California , which includes principles that
encourage and reco mmend funding for water recycling and its use in water -short
areas of the state. On September 26, 1988, the Los Angeles Water Board
adopted Resolution No. 88 -012, which encourages the beneficial use of recycled
wastewater and supports water recycling proje cts.
6.3. The State Water Board adopted the Recycled Water Policy (State Water Board
Resolution No. 2009 -0011) on February 3, 2009 , and amended the Policy on
January 22, 2013 (State Water Board Resolution No. 2013 -0003). The Recycled
Water Policy was furth er amended and adopted on December 11, 2018 (State
Water Board Resolution No. 2018 -0057) by the State Water Board and approved
by the Office of Administrative Law (OAL) on April 08, 2019. In part, the purpose
of the Recycled Water Policy is to protect grou ndwater resources and to increase
the beneficial use of recycled water from municipal wastewater sources in a
manner consistent with state and federal water quality laws and regulations. This
Order includes requirements consistent with the Recycled Water P olicy.
6.4. In section 4 of the amended Recycled Water Policy, two primary agencies are
described with jurisdiction over the use and regulation of recycled water including
the State and regional water boards. The State Water Board :
• establishes general policies governing the permitting of recycled water projects,
• develops uniform water recycling criteria appropriate to particular uses of water
and processes ,
• approves wastewater change petitions filed by wastewater dischargers for
recycled water projec ts that have the potential to decrease flow in any portion
of a watercourse such as a river or stream,
• adopts statewide orders for the permitting of recycled water projects, reviews
and approves Title 22 engineering reports for recycled water use,
• and allocates and disperses funding for recycled water projects consistent with
its roles of protecting water quality, public health, and sustaining water supplies.
The State Water Board also exercises general oversight of recycled water
projects, including review of regional water board permitting practices. The
regional water boards issue permits that include requirements needed to protect
water quality, human health, and the environment consistent with the State and
Regional Water Quality Control Plans, p olicies, and applicable law. The regional
water boards also exercise their authority to encourage the use of recycled
water.
6.5. CWC section 13523 (a) provides that a regional water board, after consulting with
and receiving recommendations from DDW or its delegated local health agency,
and after any necessary hearing, shall, if it determines such action to be
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 12necessary to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the public, prescribe WRRs
for water that is used or proposed to be used as recycled water. CW C section
13523 further provides that, at a minimum, the WRRs shall include, or be in
conformance with, the statewide water recycling criteria established by DDW
pursuant to CWC section 13521.
6.6. CWC section 13523.5 states that a regional water board may not deny issuance
of WRRs to a project that violates only a salinity standard in a basin plan. This
provision does not apply to WDRs. WDRs for projects that recycle water may
contain effluent and other limitations on discharges of salts, as necessary to
meet water quality objectives, comply with the Antidegradation Policy , or
otherwise protect beneficial uses. This is particularly relevant here, where a
protected beneficial use is Agricultural Su pply, which is sensitive to discharges of
salts.
6.7. Pursuant to CWC section 13523, the Los Angeles Water Board has consulted
with DDW regarding the proposed recycling project and has incorporated their
recommendations into this Order. Final as -built pla ns and final DDW approvals
are required prior to commencing delivery of recycled water for reuse.
6.8. Section 7.4 of the Recycled Water Policy states that site -specific groundwater
monitoring shall not be required for irrigation projects where recycled wa ter is
applied at rates that minimize percolation of recycled water below the plants’ root
zone and account for the nutrient levels in the recycled water and nutrient
demand by plants when applying fertilizers. The Recycled Water Policy also
includes excep tions to this exemption from groundwater monitoring including
when a regional water board determines there are unique site -specific conditions
or such project -specific monitoring is required under the accepted Salt and
Nutrient Management Plan (SNMP) , appl icable basin plan s, or other water board
program such as the Irrigated Lands Program. Unique site -specific conditions
include but are not limited to recycled water that is proposed to be used for
irrigation over high transmissivity soils over a shallow (5 feet or less) high quality
groundwater aquifer or is proposed to be stored in unlined ponds where the
regional water board determines that it will result in an unacceptable threat to
groundwater quality. This Order is being issued without site -specific gro undwater
monitoring since the irrigation permitted under this Order requires the recycled
water to be applied at rates that minimize percolation below the plants’ root zone.
The exceptions to the exemption do not apply because there are no site -specific
conditions that may result in an unacceptable threat to groundwater quality when
recycled water is used in compliance with this Order.
6.9. It is the intent of the Recycled Water Policy for salts and nutrients to be
addressed regionally rather than imposing requirements solely on individual
recycled water projects. Section 6.1.2 of the Recycled Water Policy states, “Salts
and nutrients from all sources must be managed on a basin -wide or watershed -
wide basis in a manner that ensures attainment of water qualit y objectives and
protection of beneficial uses. The most effective way to address salt and nutrient
loading is typically through the development of regional or subregional salt and
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 13nutrient management plans rather than imposing requirements solely on
individual recycled water projects or other individual sources of salts and
nutrients.”
6.10. A goal of the Recycled Water Policy is to increase the beneficial use of recycled
water from municipal wastewater sources in a manner consistent with state and
federal water quality laws and regulations. The Recycled Water Policy directs
the regional water boards to collaborate with generators of municipal
wastewater and interested parties in the development of SNMPs to manage
loadings of salts and nutrients to g roundwater basins in a manner that is
protective of beneficial uses, thereby supporting the sustainable use of local
waters .
In accordance with the Recycled Water Policy, a Salt and Nutrient Management
Plan (2015 SNMP) has been prepared for the Central Ba sin and West Coast
Basin. On February 12, 2015, the Los Angeles Water Board adopted
Resolution No. R15 -001, which amended the Water Quality Control Plan: Los
Angeles Region Basin Plan for the Coastal Watersheds of Los Angeles and
Ventura Counties (Basin Pl an) to incorporate groundwater quality management
measures for salts and nutrients in the Central Basin and West Coast Basin.
Although the SNMP considers both the Central and West Coast Basin, only the
West Coast Basin is applicable to this project. An ove rview of the SNMP is
included in section 7.4 below on antidegradation.
7. OTHER APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES AND AUTHORITIES
7.1. The Basin Plan
7.1.1. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses for surface and groundwater;
establishes narrative and numeric water quality objectives that shall be
attained or maintained to protect the designated (existing and potential)
beneficial uses and conform to the State’s antidegradation policy; and
includes implementation provisions, programs, and policies to protect al l
waters in the region. In addition, the Basin Plan incorporates all applicable
State Water Board and Los Angeles Water Board plans and policies and
other pertinent water quality policies and regulations.
7.1.2. The Basin Plan incorporates the primary maxi mum contaminant levels
(MCLs ) found in the CCR by reference. This incorporation is prospective,
including future changes to the incorporated provisions as the changes
take effect. Groundwater designated for use as domestic or municipal
supply shall not con tain concentrations of chemical constituents and
radionuclides greater than the MCLs. The Basin Plan also specifies that
groundwaters shall not contain taste or odor -producing substances in
concentrations that cause nuisance or adversely affect beneficial uses.
7.1.3. The Basin Plan contains Water Quality Objectives ( WQOs ) for
groundwater in the West Coast Basin . The beneficial uses of the receiving
groundwater basin are as follows:
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 14Table 4. Beneficial Uses of Groundwater

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or an ticipated
noncompliance does not stay any condition of this Order.
17.2. This Order may be reopened to include the most scientifically relevant and
appropriate limitations for this discharge based on monitoring results, studies,
revisions to the Basin Plan or other Board policy, or the application of an
attenuation factor based upon an approved site -specific attenuation study.
17.3. This Order may be reopened to modify limitations for constituents to protect
beneficial uses, based on new information not av ailable at the time this Order
was adopted.
17.4. If additional monitoring, reporting, and trend analysis indicates changed
aquifer conditions, this Order may be reopened to ensure the groundwater is
protected in a manner consistent with the state and fede ral water quality laws
and regulations.
17.5. This Order may be reopened to incorporate any new regulatory requirements
for sources of drinking water that are adopted after the effective date of this
Order.
17.6. This Order may be reopened upon a determination by DDW that treatment
and disinfection of recycled water is insufficient to protect human health.
17.7. This Order may be reopened if the Executive Officer of the Los Angeles Water
Board determines additional requirements are needed to permit uses listed in
this permit or new use sites to protect human health or to prevent degradation
of the groundwater basin .
17.8. This Order may be reopened to include new requirements for uses not
currently listed in this Order.
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 3818. ENFORCEMENT
The require ments of this Order are subject to enforcement under Water Code
sections 13261, 13264, 13265, 13268, 13300, 13301, 13304, 13350, and
enforcement provisions in Water Code, Division 7, Chapter 7 (Water Reclamation).
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT A – DEFINITIONS
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 A-1ATTACHMENT A – DEFINITIONS
Advanced -treated Recycled Water
In this permit, this is the treated recycled wat er produced by the Hyperion Advanced
Water Purification Facility (HAWPF) .
Agronomic Rate
The rate of application of recycled water to plants necessary to satisfy the plants'
evapotranspiration requirements, considering allowances for su pplemental water (e.g.,
effective precipitation), irrigation distribution uniformity, and leaching requirement, thus
minimizing the movement of nutrients below the plants' root zone.
Arithmetic Mean (μ)
Also called the average, is the sum of measured value s divided by the number of
samples.
Average Monthly Effluent Limitation (AMEL)
The highest allowable average of daily discharges over a calendar month, calculated as
the sum of all daily discharges measured during the calendar month divided by the
number o f daily discharges measured during that month.
Average Weekly Effluent Limitation (AWEL)
The highest allowable average of daily discharges over a calendar week (Sunday
through Saturday), calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured during a
calen dar week divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that week.
Coagulated Wastewater
Oxidized wastewater in which colloidal and finely divided suspended matter have been
destabilized and agglomerated upstream from a filter by the addition of suitable floc -
forming chemicals.
Composite Sample, 24 -hour
An aggregate sample derived from no fewer than eight samples collected at equal time
intervals or collected proportional to the flow rate over the compositing period. The
aggregate samp le shall reflect the average source water quality covering the composite
24-hour sample period.
Conventional Treatment
A treatment chain that utilizes a sedimentation unit process between the coagulation
and filtration processes and produces an effluent th at meets the definition for disinfected
tertiary recycled water.
Daily Discharge
Daily Discharge is defined as either: (1) the total mass of a constituent discharged over
the calendar day (12:00 am through 11:59 pm) or any 24 -hour period that reasonably
represents a calendar day for purposes of sampling (as specified in the permit), for a
constituent with limitations expressed in units of mass or; (2) the unweighted arithmetic
mean measurement of the constituent over the day for a constituent with limitatio ns
expressed in other units of measurement (e.g., concentration).
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT A – DEFINITIONS
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 A-2The daily discharge may be determined by the analytical results of a composite sample
taken over the course of one day (a calendar day or other 24 -hour period defined as a
day) or by the ari thmetic mean of analytical results from one or more grab samples
taken over the course of the day.
For composite sampling, if 1 day is defined as a 24 -hour period other than a calendar
day, the analytical result for the 24 -hour period will be considered as the result for the
calendar day in which the 24 -hour period ends.
Detected, but Not Quantified (DNQ)
Sample results less than the reporting limit ( RL), but greater than or equal to the
laboratory’s method detection limit ( MDL ). Sample results reported as DNQ are
estimated concentrations.
Disinfected Tertiary Recycled Water
A filtered and subsequently disinfected wastewater that meets the following criteria:
(a) The filtered wastewater which has been disinfected by either:
(1) A chlorine disinf ection process following filtration that provides a contact time
(CT, the product of total chlorine residual and modal contact time measured at
the same point) value of not less than 450 milligram -minutes per liter at all times
with a modal contact time of at least 90 minutes, based on peak dry weather
design flow; or
(2) A disinfection process that, when combined with the filtration process, has been
demonstrated to inactivate and/or remove 99.999 percent of the plaque forming
units of F -specific bacteriop hage MS2, or polio virus in the wastewater. A virus
that is at least as resistant to disinfection as polio virus may be used for purposes
of the demonstration.
(b) The median concentration of total coliform bacteria measured in the disinfected
effluent doe s not exceed a most probable number (MPN) of 2.2 per 100 milliliters
utilizing the bacteriological results of the last seven days for which analyses have
been completed and the number of total coliform bacteria does not exceed an MPN
of 23 per 100 millilit ers in more than one sample in any 30 -day period. No sample
shall exceed an MPN of 240 total coliform bacteria per 100 milliliters.
Dual Plumbed System
A system that utilizes separate piping systems for recycled water and potable water
within a facility an d where the recycled water is used for either of the following
purposes:
(a) To serve plumbing outlets (excluding fire suppression systems) within a building or
(b) Outdoor landscape irrigation at individual residences.
Estimated Chemical Concentration
The estimated chemical concentration that results from the confirmed detection of the
substance by the analytical method below the minimum level (ML) value.
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT A – DEFINITIONS
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 A-3Filtered Wastewater
An oxidized wastewater that meets the criteria in subsection (a) or (b):
(a) Has been coagulated and passed through natural undisturbed soils or a bed of filter
media pursuant to the following:
(1) At a rate that does not exceed 5 gallons per minute per square foot of surface
area in mono, dual or mixed media gravity, up flow or pressu re filtration systems,
or does not exceed 2 gallons per minute per square foot of surface area in
travelling automatic backwash filters; and
(2) So that the turbidity of the filtered wastewater does not exceed any of the
following:
i. An average 2 nephelom etric turbidity units ( NTU) within a 24 -hour period;
ii. 5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time within a 24 -hour period; and
iii. 10 NTU at any time.
(b) Has been passed through a microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nanofiltration, or reverse
osmosis membrane so that the turbidity of the filtered wastewater does not exceed
any of the following:
(1) 0.2 NTU more than 5 percent of the time within a 24 -hour period; and
(2) 0.5 NTU at any time.
F-specific bacteriophage MS -2
A strain of a specific type of virus that infects coliform bacteria that is traceable to the
[American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) 15597B1] and is grown on lawns of
Escherichia coli (E. coli ) (ATCC 15597).
Grab Sample
An individual sample collected duri ng a period not to exceed 15 minutes. Grab samples
shall be collected during normal peak loading conditions for the parameter of interest,
which may or may not occur during hydraulic peaks.
Incidental Runoff
Unintended small amounts (volume) of runoff from recycled water use areas, such as
unintended, minimal over -spray from sprinklers that escapes the recycled water use
area.
Instantaneous Maximum Effluent Limitation
The highest allowable value for any single grab sample or aliquot (i.e., each grab
sample or aliquot is independently compared to the instantaneous maximum limitation).
Instantaneous Minimum Effluent Limitation
The lowest allowable value for any single sample or aliquot (i.e., each grab sample or
aliquot is independently compared to the instant aneous minimum limitation).
Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL)
The maximum permissible concentration of a contaminant established pursuant to
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT A – DEFINITIONS
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 A-4section 116275(c)(1) and (d) of the Health and Safety Code of the California Code or
established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA).
Maximum Daily Effluent Limitation (MDEL)
The highest allowable daily discharge of a pollutant over a calendar day (or 24 -hour
period). For pollutants with limitations expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is
calculated as the total mass of the pollutant discharged over the day. For pollutants with
limitations expressed in other units of measurement, the daily discharge is calculated as
the arithmetic mean measurement of the pollutant over the day.
Median
The middle measurement in a set of data. The median of a data set is found by first
arranging the measurements in order of magnitude (either increasing or decreasing
order). If the number of measurements (n) is odd, then the median = X (n+1)/2 . If n is even,
then the median = (Xn/2 + X n/2+1)/2 (i.e., the midpoint between the n/2 and n/2+1).
Method Detection Limit (MDL)
The minimum concentration of a substance that can be reported with 99 percent
confidence that the measured concentration is dis tinguishable from method blank
results.
Minimum Level (ML)
The concentration at which the entire analytical system must give a recognizable signal
and acceptable calibration point. The ML is the concentration in a sample that is
equivalent to the concentra tion of the lowest calibration standard analyzed by a specific
analytical procedure, assuming that all the method specified sample weights, volumes,
and processing steps have been followed.
Minimum Reporting Level (MRL)
The smallest measured concentration of a substance that can be reliably measured by
using a given analytical method. It is the “less -than” value reported when an analyte
either is not detected or is detected at a concentration less than the MRL
Modal Contact Time
The amount of time elapsed b etween the time that a tracer, such as salt or dye, is
injected into the effluent at the entrance to a chamber and the time that the highest
concentration of the tracer is observed in the effluent from the chamber.
Not Detected (ND)
Sample results which ar e less than the laboratory’s MDL.
Notification Level (NL)
The concentration of a contaminant established by the Department pursuant to section
116455 of the Health and Safety Code of the California Code .
NTU (Nephelometric Turbidity Unit)
A measurement of turbidity as determined by the ratio of the intensity of light scattered
by the sample to the intensity of incident light scattered by the sample to the intensity of
incident light as measured by method 2130 B in Standard Methods for the Examination
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT A – DEFINITIONS
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 A-5of Wat er and Wastewater , 20th ed.; Eaton, A.D., Clesceri, L.S., and Greenberg, A.E.,
Eds; American Public Health Association: Washington, DC, 1995; p.2 -8.
Oxidized Wastewater
Wastewater in which the organic matter has been stabilized, is nonputrescible, and
contains dissolved oxygen.
Recycled Municipal Wastewater
Recycled water that is the effluent from the treatment of wastewater of municipal origin.
Recycled Water
Water which, as a result of treatment of waste, is suitable for a direct beneficial use or a
controlled use that would not otherwise occur therefore considered a valuable resource.
(Wat. Code, § 13050(n).)
Spray Irrigation
The application of recycled water to plants to maintain vegetation or support growth of
vegetation by applying it from sprinklers.
Surface Irrigation
Application of recycled water by means other than spraying such that contact between
the edible portion of any food crop and recycled water is prevented (i.e., drip or flood
irrigation).
Use Area
An area of recycled water use with defin ed boundaries. Agricultural use areas may
contain one or more facilities (ditch, irrigated fields, pumping stations, etc.); use areas
may also consist of an aggregate of small lots (e.g., residential/ industrial developments,
roadway median irrigation, etc .).
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT B – PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023 B-1ATTACHMENT B – PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM



City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT C – RECYCLED WATER DISTRIBUTION AREA
TENTATIVE : 10/19/2023 C-1ATTACHMENT C – RECYCLED WATER DISTRIBUTION AREA




City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT D – STANDARD PROVISIONS
ADOPTED :10/19/2023 D-1ATTACHMENT D – STANDARD PROVISIONS
1. Duty to Comply
The Permittees shall comply with all conditions of these waste discharge
requirements. A responsible party has been designated in the Order for this project
and is legally bound to maintain the monitoring program and permit. Violations may
result in enforcemen t actions, including the Los Angeles Water Quality Control Board
(Los Angeles Water Board) orders or court orders requiring corrective action or
imposing civil monetary liability, or in modification or revocation of these waste
discharge requirements by th e Los Angeles Water Board [California Water Code
(CWC ) sections 13261, 13263, 13265, 13268, 13300, 13301, 13304, 13340, 13350 ].
Failure to comply with any waste discharge requirement, monitoring and reporting
requirement, or other order or prohibition issu ed, reissued, or amended by the Los
Angeles Water Board or California State Water Resources Control Board ( State
Water Board ) is a violation of these waste discharge requirements and the California
Water Code (CWC) , which can result in the imposition of civil liability. (CWC section
13350 , subdivision (a)).
2. General Prohibition
Neither the treatment nor the discharge of waste shall create pollution, contamination,
or nuisance, as defined by CWC section 13050. In a ddition, the discharge of waste
classified as hazardous, as defined in title 23 of the California Code of Regulations
(23 CCR) 2521(a), is also prohibited.
3. Availability
A copy of these waste discharge requirements shall be maintained at the discharge
facility and be available at all times to operating personnel (CWC section 13263).
4. Change in Ownership
The Permittees shall notify any succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this
Order by letter, a copy of which shall be forwarded to the Los Ang eles Water Board.
The Permittees shall notify the Los Angeles Water Board, in writing, at least 60 days
in advance of ownership change and provide a date on which the transfer of this
Order’s responsibility and coverage will go from the current discharger to the new
discharger. The notification shall include an agreement between the parties to
transfer responsibility for compliance with the Order. The agreement shall include an
acknowledgement that the existing discharger is liable for violations up to the transfer
date and that the new discharger is liable from the transfer date forward. The
succeeding owner of operator shall submit a Report of Waste Discharge that
requests an amendment to formally amend the Order to acknowledge the transfer.
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT D – STANDARD PROVISIONS
ADOPTED :10/19/2023 D-25. Change in D ischarge
In the event of a material change in the character, location, or volume of a discharge,
the Permittees shall file with the Los Angeles Water Board a new Report of Waste
Discharge (CWC section 13260, subdivision (c )). A material change includes, bu t is
not limited to, the following:
5.1. Addition of a major industrial waste discharge to a discharge of essentially
domestic sewage, or the addition of a new process or product by an industrial
facility resulting in a change in the character of the waste .
5.2. Significant change in disposal method, e.g., change from a land disposal to a
direct discharge to water, or change in the method of treatment which would
significantly alter the characteristics of the waste.
5.3. Significant change in the disposal area, e.g., moving the discharge to another
drainage area, or to a disposal area significantly removed from the original area
potentially causing different water quality or nuisance problems.
5.4. Increase in flow beyond that specified in the wast e discharge requirements.
5.5. Increase in area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond that
specified in the waste discharge requirements (23 CCR § 2210).
6. Revision
These waste discharge requirements are subject to review and revision by the Los
Angeles Water Board (CWC section 13263).
7. Notification
Where the Permittees becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts in a
Report of Waste Discharge or submitted incorrect information in a Report of Waste
Discharge or in any report t o the Los Angeles Water Board, the Permittees shall
promptly submit such facts or information (CWC sections 13260 and 13267).
8. Vested Rights
This Order does not convey any property rights of any sort or any exclusive
privileges. The requirements prescrib ed herein do not authorize the commission of
any act causing injury to persons or property, do not protect the Permittees from his
liability under Federal, State or local laws, nor do they create a vested right for the
Permittees to continue the waste disc harge (CWC section 13263 subdivision (g )).
9. Severability
Provisions of these waste discharge requirements are severable. If any provision of
these requirements is found invalid, the remainder of these requirements shall not be
affected (CWC section 921).
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT D – STANDARD PROVISIONS
ADOPTED :10/19/2023 D-310. Operation and Maintenance
The Permittees shall, at all times, properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or
used by the Permittees to achieve compliance with the co nditions of this Order.
Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate
funding, adequate operator staffing and training, and adequate laboratory and
process controls including appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provis ion
requires the operation of backup or auxiliary facilities or similar systems only when
necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order (CWC section
13263, subdivision (f )).
11. Hazardous Releases
Except for a discharge which is in comp liance with these waste discharge
requirements, any person who, without regard to intent or negligence, causes or
permits any hazardous substance or sewage to be discharged in or on any waters
of the State, or discharged or deposited where it is, or probab ly will be, discharged
in or on any waters of the State, shall, as soon as (a) that person has knowledge of
the discharge, (b) notification is possible, and (c) notification can be provided
without substantially impeding cleanup or other emergency measures , immediately
notify the Office of Emergency Services of the discharge in accordance with the spill
reporting provision of the State toxic disaster contingency plan adopted pursuant to
Article 3.7 (commencing with section 8574.16) of the Government Code, a nd
immediately notify the State Water Board or the Los Angeles Water Board of the
discharge. This provision does not require reporting of any discharge of less than a
reportable quantity as provided for under subdivisions (f) and (g) of CWC section
13271 u nless the discharge is in violation of a prohibition in the applicable Water
Quality Control Plan (CWC section 13271, subdivision (a )).
12. Oil and Petroleum Releases
Except for a discharge which is in compliance with these waste discharge
requirements, an y person who without regard to intent or negligence, causes or
permits any oil or petroleum product to be discharged in or on any waters of the
State, or discharged or deposited where it is, or probably will be, discharged in or on
any water of the State, shall, as soon as (a) such person has knowledge of the
discharge, (b) notification is possible, and (c) notification can be provided without
substantially impeding cleanup or other emergency measures, immediately notify
the Office of Emergency Services of the discharge in accordance with the spill
reporting provision of the State oil spill contingency plan adopted pursuant to article
3.5 (commencing with section 8574.1) of chapter 7, division 1, of title 2 of the
Government Code. This provision does not req uire reporting of any discharge of
less than 42 gallons unless the discharge is also required to be reported pursuant to
section 311 of the Clean Water Act or the discharge is in violation of a prohibition in
the applicable Water Quality Control Plan (CWC section 13272).
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R4 -2023 -0357
File No. 23 -104
ATTACHMENT D – STANDARD PROVISIONS
ADOPTED :10/19/2023 D-413. Entry and Inspection
The Permittees shall allow the Los Angeles Water Board, or an authorized
representative upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be
required by law, to:
13.1. Enter upon the Permittees ’ processes where a regulated facility or activity is
located or conducted, or where records shall be kept under the conditions of
this Order;
13.2. Have access to and copy at reasonable times, any records that shall be kept
under the conditions of this Order;
13.3. Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and
control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this
Order;
13.4. Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of ensuring
compliance with this Order, or as otherwise authorized by the California Water
Code, any substances or parameters at any location (CWC section 13267);
and
13.5. Except for material d etermined to be confidential in accordance with applicable
law, all reports prepared in accordance with the terms of this Order shall be
available for public inspection at the Los Angeles Water Board office. Data on
waste discharges, water quality, geology , and