County of San Luis Obispo is required to update the title 22 Engineering Report
to incorporate all new users.
2.2. CSA-18 wastewater is primarily of domestic origin. Total dissolved solids (TDS),
chloride, and sodium are known problem constituents. In 1993, San Luis
Obispo County Ordinance 2597 banned the use of water softening systems or devices which cause high concentration of salts to be discharged into the public sewer at CSA -18. The ordinance establishes a supplemental water quality
service cha rge for any buildings and lots that do not comply with this measure.
2.3. The treatment plant process consists of Aeration Ponds 1 and 2 which have
aerators and can be operated individually in parallel or together in series with a detention time of five or more days in each aeration pond. The operator typically runs the aeration ponds in series. After aeration, wastewater flows to Settling
Ponds 1, 2, and 3 which are operated in parallel with a detention time of one or more days. One settling pond can alternatively be used for sludge storage when not being used for settling operations. A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.

Attachment 1
 - 4 - Table 2. Wastewater Pond Treatment System , Disposal , and Capacity
Design Flows 100,000 gpd as a monthly average
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment n/a – headworks grinder is not installed
The County of San Luis Obispo plans to install a manual bar screen and must include details about system upgrades in their annual report.
Secondary Treatment Wastewater is treated via two aerated ponds (Aeration
Pond 1 and Aeration Pond 2) that are followed by three settling ponds operated in parallel. Each aerated pond has a volume of 600,000 gallons. Each settling pond has a capacity of 80,000 gallons.
Disinfection Disinfection includes a chlorine contact channel with a
design detention time of 60- minutes. The chlorination
system uses 20 -25 gpd 12.5% sodium hypochlorite for
disinfection. The Multi -Functional Controller sends an
alarm if chlorine residual drops below 2 mg/L.
The chlorine contact channel has a 5,000- gallon capacity.
Effluent Pump Two pumps with 180,000 gpd capacity each.
Effluent Storage and Disposal Treated, disinfected secondary -23 effluent is discharged to
a blending pond that is owned and operated by the San Luis Obispo Golf and Country Club for use in the golf
course irrigation system.
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and Handling Solids accumulate at the bottom of the settling ponds and
are removed 1 to 2 times per year depending on sludge
judge measurements.
Non-Potable, Title 22
Recycled Water This wastewater system produces non -potable disinfected
secondary -23 recycled water for use on a restricted
acccess golf course. The Country Club Estates blends the recycled water supplied by the County of San Luis Obispo with well water and uses it for ir rigation.


Attachment 1
 - 5 -
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
The County of San Luis Obispo must operate the facility in accordance with the General
Perm it and this notice of applicability4. The facility is an aerated wastewater pond
treatment system. The County of San Luis Obispo must operate the system to comply with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

