FACILITY DESCRIPTION 
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls 
The Facility is a secondary treatment plant located at 1201 South Rancho Avenue, in the 
City of Colton. The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastes generated 
within the Cities of Colton and Grand Terrace and unincorporated areas of San 
Bernardino County. The Facility services a population of about 65,000. Attachment B 
provides a map of the area around the Facility. 
The Facility has a design capacity of 10.4 mgd1 for secondary treatment and disinfection. 
The treatment systems consist of screening, grit removal, primary clarification, 
secondary activated sludge, oxidation ditch with nitrification and denitrification, 
secondary clarification, and chlorination. The plant schematic in Attachment C depicts 
how flows are split through two different treatment trains (activated sludge and oxidation 
ditch). Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the different treatment trains at the 
Facility. 
Normally, effluent from the Facility is directed to the Colton/San Bernardino Regional 
Tertiary Treatment and Water Reclamation Agency's Rapid Infiltration and Extraction 
Facility for further treatment and disposal. Intermittently, the secondary treated and 
disinfected wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Reach 4 of the Santa 
Ana River. These discharges occur only when there is sufficient flow in the River to 
provide 20:1 or more dilution. Although there was sufficient flow in the River to allow a 
discharge occasionally, no such discharges occurred throughout the duration of the 
previous Order. 
Sludge treatment consists of dissolved air floatation, primary and secondary anaerobic 
digestion, and dewatering. The sludge is disposed of at a designated landfill site. 
All on-site storm water flows from the Facility, except a small area adjacent to the 
administrative building, are routed to the headworks for treatment. Since there is no 
industrial activity-related stormwater runoff from the Facility, stormwater requirements 
and monitoring are not included in this Order. 
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters 
The Facility is located in the southeast portion of Section 30, T1S, R4W, SBB&M. The 
Discharger discharges secondary treated and disinfected wastewater under conditions of 
20:1 or more dilution into Reach 4 of the Santa Ana River via Discharge Point 001, 
located at latitude 34° 02' 45" N and longitude 117° 21' 00" W. 
C. Compliance Summary 
The Discharger has been in compliance with effluent limitations and reporting 
requirements specified in Order No. RB-2004-0075. 
Estimated annualized average based on dry weather conditions. 
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-3 
City of Colton 
Water Reclamation Facility 
Ill.