FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Service Area
The Discharger's service area encompasses approximately 6,755 acres within
Riverside County, much of which is undeveloped. The Discharger currently provides
sewerage services to approximately 450 acres and a population of 9,500. The facility
receives and treats domestic wastewater generated within the Discharger's service
area. The majority of the wastewater is generated from residential areas.
2. Lee Lake Water Reclamation Facility Design Characteristics
Current plant design capacity is 1.58 million gallons per day average dry weather
flow of tertiary treatment.
The wastewater treatment process consists of screening, grit removal, seven
sequencing batch reactors (activated sludge/secondary clarification), flow
equalization, rapid mix/flocculation, filtration, chlorination and dechlorination. The
Facility produces tertiary treated water that complies with requirements established
Lee Lake Water District
Lee Lake Water Reclamation Facility
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Order No. RS-2012-0028
NPDES No. CA8000100
Page F-5
in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations for unrestricted non-potable water
reuse.
Attachment B provides maps of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C provides a treatment flow schematic for this Facility.
3. Biosolids Handling Practices
Waste activated sludge is conveyed to three aerobic digesters and dewatered prior
to disposal. Digested sludge is dewatered with a centrifuge and the sludge cake
(Class B Biosolids) is delivered directly to a local composting facility. Filtrate from the
dewatering process is returned to the headworks of the treatment facility. The
Facility can also utilize on-site lined drying beds as a secondary method of
dewatering.
4. Recycled Water Use
Tertiary treated recycled water is currently used for landscape irrigation within the
16-acre treatment plant site, as well as for irrigation of a nearby golf course.
5. Land Disposal
Undisinfected secondary treated wastewater may be discharged to an unlined
storage/percolation basin located in the northwest portion of the Facility. A hydro­
geological study was completed and submitted on November 9, 2010, that
demonstrates that this discharge will not adversely affect the beneficial uses of the
down gradient surface or ground waters.
6. Discharge Priority
Prior to the construction of the unlined pond, excess recycled water that could not be
used for irrigation was discharged to Temescal Creek. With the pond, the new
priority of effluent discharges is first to irrigation, second to percolation, and third to
discharge to Temescal Creek.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

