FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewat er and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. The Camarillo WRP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather
design capacity of 7.25 MGD, and an average daily flow of 3.4 MGD. Untreated
wastewater is collected from the City of Camarillo and an unincorporated section
of Ventura County. Influent u ndergoes preliminary treatment through aerated grit
removal and mechanical bar screening. Wastewater is then split into two
streams, distributing one third of the flow to Plant 1 and two thirds of the flow to
Plant 3. The City’s wastewater collection sys tem consists of a 30 inch gravity
line, a 30 inch force main, and an influent pumping station which delivers
wastewater to the headworks of the Camarillo WRP. The wastewater undergoes
primary clarifica tion, nitrification and denitrification for biological nitrogen removal
(BNR), secondary clarification, flow equalization, filtration, disinfection using
sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination using sodium bisulfite .
2. The Facility serves an estimated populatio n of 46,500 people. wastewater is a
mixture of domest ic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated
pursuant to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403 under
the Camarillo Sanitary District’s Pretreatment Program, which was submitted to
the Regional Water Board for approval on July 9, 1982. The Camarillo Sanitary
District’s Pretreatment Program currently consists of four permitted nondomestic
dischargers. All four are classified as significant industrial users (SIUs) pu rsuant
to 40 CFR Part 403.3(v) and as categorical indu strial users (CIUs). One CIU is
an electrical and electronic components/semiconductor facility subject to 40 CFR
Part 469 Subpart A; one CIU is a metal finisher subject to 40 CFR Part 433; and
the rema ining two CIUs are metal molding and casting/aluminum casting facilities
subject to 40 CFR Part 464, subpart A. Camarillo SD also has a fats, oils, and
grease (FOG) program that was initiated in February 2008, under which food
establishments are inspected every year. Camarillo WRP does not accept
hauled was te.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment :
a. Grit removal and screening : Grit is a wide assortment of inorganic solids
such as pebbles, sand, silt , eggshells, glass, and metal fragments. Larger
solids are mechanically removed by using bar screens. This material is
collected and disposed of at a landfill .
b. Primary clarification: In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out,
thickened, and retu rned to the anaerobic digesters for additional treatment.
Primary -treated wastewater is sent to the BNR basins .
c. Secondary Clarification: Wastewater that has received primary clarific ation
enters the activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen removal usi ng the
Modified Ludzak -Ettinger (MLE) process. Wastewater that has undergone
CAMARILLO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2019 -0136
CAMARILLO WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053597
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopte d: 11/14/2019 ) F-5 the nitrification/denitrification process is sent to the secondary filters.
Secondary treated wastewater i s sent to the tertiary filters .
d. Equalization Basins: Equalization basins allow for adjustments of flow of
primary clarifier effluent to the MLE process and/or headworks throughout
the day . They help the system run closer to a steady state condition .
e. Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspe nded or colloidal matter from a liquid stream by passing the water
through AquaDisk tertiary cloth filters. In the case of Camarillo WRP, nylon
needle felt is the filtration media. F ilters remove the solids that the
secondary sedimentation process did no t remove, thereby improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability. The maximum loading rate for these
filters in 6 gallons per minute per square foot, or 0.00064 MGD per square
foot. Filter backwash water is returned to the headworks for treatment .
f. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite and aqueous ammonia are used as
disinfectants in the chlorine contact chamber. The disinfecting agent is
added to the treated effluent to destroy ba cteria, pathogens, and viruses, and
to minimize algal growth .
g. Dechlorina tion: Prior to discharge to Conejo Creek, sodium bisulfite is added
to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine .
h. Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings are hauled off -site fo r disposal in a
landfill. Sludge from secondary clarifiers is pumped eit her to the MLE
process (return activated sludge), or to the aerobic digester for further
treatment. Sludge from the drying beds is hauled away to an off -site
composting facility .
B. Disc harge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The WRP’s treatment system was upgraded in February 2007 to include filtration as a
new process. As such, the facility is now considered a tertiary POTW. The facility
has also undergone changes with respect to nitrogen removal, in order to comply with
the Nutrient TMDL for Calleguas Creek Watershed . In the future, the facility plans to
expand its recycled water program, and thus reduce its surface water discharge from
Discharge Points 001A & 001B,in accordance with Wastewater Petition WW0074 .
III. APPLICABLE PLA NS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U .S. EPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the CWC
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as a n NPDES permit authorizing the
Discharger to discharge into waters of the United States at the discharge location s
described in Table 2 subject to the WDRs in this Orde r.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under CWC section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the
provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of Division 13 of
the Public Resources Code .
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Pla ns
1. Water Quality Control Plan . The Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles
Region (Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality
objectives (WQOs), and contains implementation programs and poli cies to
achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. Requirements
in this Order implement the Basin Plan. In addition, the Basin Plan implements
State Water Board Resolution 88 -63, which established state policy that all
waters, with certain exceptions, s hould be considered suitable or potentially
suitable for municipal or domestic supply. On May 26, 2000, the USEPA
approved the revised Basin Plan except for the implementation plan for potential
MUN -designated water bodies . On August 22, 2000, the City of Los Angeles, City
of Burbank, Camarillo Sanitary District , and the County Sanitation Districts of Los
Angeles County challenged USEPA’s water quality standards action in the U.S.
District Court. On December 18, 2011, the court issued an order remanding the
matter to USEPA to take further action on the 1994 Basin Plan consistent with
the court’s decision. On February 15, 2002, USEPA revised its decision and
approved the 1994 Basin Plan in whole. In its February 15, 2002 letter, USEPA
stated:
CAMARILLO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2019 -0136
CAMARILLO WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053597
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopte d: 11/14/2019 ) F-18EPA bases its ap proval on the court’s finding that the Regional
Board’s identification of waters with an asterisk (“*”) in conjunction
with the implementation language at page 2 -4 of the 1994 Basin
Plan, was intended “to only conditionally designate and not finally
design ate as MUN those water bodies identified by an (‘*’) for the
MUN use in Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan, without further action.”
Court Order at p. 4. Thus, the waters identified with an (“*”) in Table
2-1 do not have MUN as a designated use until such time as the
State undertakes additional study and modifies its Basin Plan.
Because this conditional use designation has no legal effect, it does
not constitute a new water quality standard subject to EPA review
under section 303(c)(3) of the Clean Water Act (“CWA ”). 33 U.S.C.
§ 1313(c)(3).
USEPA’s decision has no effect on the MUN designations of groundwater , which
is outside of its jurisdiction . Beneficial uses applicable to Conejo Creek (also
referred to as Calleguas Creek Reaches 9A and 9B ), are as follows :
Table F -4. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses –