B. General Facility Information
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treat ment, and disposal
facility that provides sewerage service to the community of Hay fork. The Hayfork
community currently supports a po pulation of about 2,300 people . The Facility has a
septage dump station located near the headworks, and accepts se wage trucked from
within Trinity County.
C. Existing Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The existing Facility is designed to provide secondary treatmen t for an average dry
weather flow of 0.243 mgd, and p eak wet weather flow at 0.729 m gd. Current average dry
weather flows at the facility ar e approximately 0.065 mgd. The existing Facility consists of
a collection system, an influent bar screen and headworks with influent flow meter, two
aerated primary treatment ponds, a secondary treatment pond, an effluent holding pond,
two wetland polishing ponds and four percolation ponds for fina l disposal. A chlorination
disinfection system was submitted as part of the final facility design, but was never
constructed. The existing Facility also includes 25 acres of v acant land owned by the
Discharger that is irrigated with undisinfected secondary efflu ent in violation of Order No.
98‐51. The Discharger notified Regional Water Board staff prio r to irrigating the vacant
land. The existing Facility is inadequately designed to meet t he standards for irrigating
treated effluent. For many year s, the undisinfe cted secondary effluent has been used for
irrigation on this 25‐acre parcel, in violation of Order No. 98 ‐51. These violations, and the
need to upgrade the existing was tewater treatment facilities, r esulted in Cease and Desist
Order No. 2012‐0106 being adopte d by the Regiona l Water Board.
The Discharger is enrolled under State Water Board Order No. 20 06‐0003‐DWQ,
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems.

Trinity County Waterworks District No. 1
Order No. R1‐2012‐0105 WDID No. 1A97069WNTR

Attachment D – Fact Sheet D‐3 D. New Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Facility
The Discharger plans to upgrade the Facility to include chlorin e disinfection of
secondary treated effluent and summertime irrigation on a limit ed access golf course
adjacent to the Facility. The new chlorine disinfection facili ties will include a
conventional chlorine contact ba sin to achieve the required con tact time for
disinfection. The chlorine contact basin will receive effluent from the effluent holding
pond or directly from the wetlan d polishing ponds. Effluent fr om the chlorine contact
basin will be discharged to the reclaimed water irrigation syst em using the existing
pumping system. The chlorine disinfection system will operate on a demand basis.
Where there is a summertime irrigation demand, the pumps will a ctivate and begin
drawing effluent from the outlet of the chlorine contact basin. Liquid sodium
hypochlorite will be used.
The disinfected wastewater will be reused on a 25‐acre adjacent golf course. All
reclaimed water and associated p iping will remain on the Facili ty property. The golf
course site will be graded to pre vent runoff. The disinfection facility will be designed to
treat 200 gallons per minute and will only be operated during t he dry season (April 30th
to October 1st). The chlorine disinfection system has been designed to meet the
standards for disinfected second ary recycled water contained in Chapter 3, Division 4,
title 22 of the California Code of Regulations.
Attachment A provides a map of t he area around the Facility, an d Attachment B
provides a Facility flow schematic.
II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities . This Order serves as Waste Di scharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the Cali fornia Water Code
(Water Code). This Order also s erves as Reclamation (Recycled Water) Requirements
pursuant to section 13523 of the Water Code.
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code secti on 13263(a), these WDRs are cr afted to
implement the Water Qu ality Control Plan for the North Coast Re gion (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into considerat ion the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quali ty objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste dis charges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 1324 1. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting water s of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Wate r Resources Control Board (Stat e Water Board)
Resolution No. 88‐63, which estab lished state policy that all w aters, with certain
Trinity County Waterworks District No. 1
Order No. R1‐2012‐0105 WDID No. 1A97069WNTR

Attachment D – Fact Sheet D‐4 exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitab le for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Hayfork Valley Area of
the Trinity River Hydrologic Unit to be protected are as follow s:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
3. Freshwater Replenishment to Surface Waters (FRSH)
The Facility is located immediat ely adjacent to Salt Creek, a t ributary to Hayfork Creek
and to the Trinity River. The e xisting and potential beneficia l uses of the Hayfork Valley
Hydrologic Subarea of the Trinity River Hydrologic Unit (waters potentially affected by
the proposed activity) that are to be protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Supply (AGR)
3. Industrial Service Supply (IND)
4. Process Water Supply (PRO)
5. Groundwater Recharge (GWR)
6. Hydropower Generation (POW)
7. Water Contact Recreation (REC‐1)
8. Non‐Contact Water Recreation (REC‐2)
9. Commercial and Sport Fishing (COMM)
10. Cold Freshwater Habitat (COLD)
11. Wildlife Habitat (WILD)
12. Rare, Threatened, or Endangered Species (RARE)
13. Migration of Aquatic Organisms (MIGR)
14. Spawning, Reproduction, and /or Development (SPWN)
15. Aquaculture (AQUA)
C. California Water Code. The California Water Code ( Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quali ty objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and recla mation requirements.
Trinity County Waterworks District No. 1
Order No. R1‐2012‐0105 WDID No. 1A97069WNTR

Attachment D – Fact Sheet D‐5 Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “estab lish such water quality
objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment wi ll ensure the reasonable
protection of beneficial uses an d the prevention of nuisance [… ].” The control of
pollutants discharged is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

