C. Existing Wastewater Treatment and Re clamation Facility
 The Discharger owns and operates a waste water system comprised of a collection system, treatment facility, and subsurface disposal. The treatment facility consists of four oxidation ponds, chlorine disinfection, a rock filter and three percolation ponds for effluent disposal.
 The wastewater system serves the City, the Blue Lake Industrial Park, the Blue Lake Rancheria Tribe casino and hotel, Blue Lake Power and a few residents located outside City limits. The wastewater system has 660 connections, of which 23 are industrial connections. Four of these industrial connections, the Mad River Brewery,
the Blue Lake Rancheria, Calgon Carbon Corporation and Blue Lake Power are
considered significant users.
 The collection system consists of a conventional gravity collection system with two lift stations, which pump wastewater to a headworks facility. At the headworks, wastewater is processed through the comminuter, and an inclined screening unit that grinds, washes, dewaters, and removes inert solids.
 Wastewater is then pumped to a 7.5 acre four cell pond system for secondary treatment. The treatment ponds are designated Pond No s. 1 through 4. Pond No. 1
is 2.7 acres and has an estimated 1- acre portion that is 11 feet deep. This pond
The City of Blue Lake WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0050
WDID No. 1B811290HUM




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-2
 contains three surface aerators. Pond Nos. 2 - 4 are stabilization ponds that vary
from 5 to 6 feet deep and provide treatment including sedimentation, solids
stabilization, and storage.
 Treated effluent discharged from Pond No. 4 is disinfected with chlorine prior to passing through the rock filter or discharging into the percolation ponds. The chlorine contact chamber is a 400 foot long, 18- inch diameter pipe, that at full flow has an
average contact time of 30 minutes and at peak day flow has a contact time of 5
minutes. The rock filter consists of 2.5 feet of pea gravel and was designed to treat 0.15 MGD of treated effluent. The filter is utilized during the summer months to remove algae.
 Effluent from the treatment facility is discharged to three rapid infiltration basins. The three basins are designated Per colation Pond Nos. 1 through 3, located near the bank
of the Mad River. Pond Nos. 1 and 3 have floor areas of approximately 1 acre. Pond
No. 2 has a floor area of approximately 0.5 acres. Only one basin is used at a time.
 Attachment A provides a map of the area around the WWTF. Attachment B provides a flow schematic of the WWTF.
II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code). This Order also serves as Reclamation (Recycled Water) Requirements pursuant to section 13523 of the Water Code.
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan contain s implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The Basin
Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should
be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
 Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Blue Lake Hydrologic Subarea of the Mad River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
3. Industrial Service Supply (IND)
4. Industrial Process Supply (PRO)
The City of Blue Lake WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0050
WDID No. 1B811290HUM




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-3
 5. Freshwater Replenishment to Surface Waters (FRSH)

C. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241 requi res each regional board to “establish such water
quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of pollutants discharged is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

