FACILITY INFORMATION
A. Background
Recent upgrades to the WWTF were completed in 2011 to r egain disposal
capacity that had been lost through sludge accumulation in the ponds. The
upgrades include the addition of a new percolation and evaporation pond (Pond
No. 4), which is lined with a 60- millimeter thick High Density Polyethylene
(HDPE) liner, the construction of an unlined primary pond (Pond No. 5), which
is not a permitted discharge location under this permit, and the addition of electrical supply to the ponds to power the APEX evaporator and any future
electricity needs. Wastewater treatment is achieved through settling, aerobic
and anaerobic bacterial actions, and other biogeochemical processes. The WWTF is designed to treat and dispose of an AADF up to 0.132 mgd.

The wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilities consist of a
combined gravity and low pres sure sewer that connects to grinder pumps in the
headworks lift station whereupon it is pumped through an inline flow meter to the solids containment structure. The wastewater then overflows successively
via weirs to Pond Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4. Pond Nos. 1, 2, and 3 were originally
designed with approximate depths of eight feet, but in November 2007, the
berms and weirs were rehabilitated and built -up to allow for approximate pond
depths of nine feet, although portions of each pond are shallower due to sludge buildup. Sludge deposition in Pond Nos. 1, 2, and 3 that occurred prior to
construction of the solids containment structure and carryover from the solids
containment structure have caused the accumulation of up to three feet of
sludge in Pond No. 1, up to fourteen inches of sludge in Pond No. 2, and up to
six inches of sludge in Pond No. 3. Pond No. 4 is designed for a maximum
water depth of six feet.

The four ponds have approximately 17.3 million gallons (53.1 acre- feet) of
storage and the design es timates that the addition of Pond No. 4 will provide
enough capacity to evaporate 0.170 mgd and percolate approximately 0.0125
mgd of wastewater. Therefore, the design estimates that the four ponds will
have enough disposal capacity to accommodate flows up to 0.1825 mgd .
Nonetheless, this permit does not authorize discharge in excess of the previously permitted rate of 0.132 mgd because the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) document for the development of the new ponds included this flow limitat ion. Any future increases in flow above the permitted rate of
0.132 mgd will require a subsequent CEQA analysis to analyze potential
environmental impacts of increased flows.
Lake Shastina Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0029
WDID No. 1A790100SIS




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-2
 Currently, there are three groundwater monitoring wells on site. The oldest w ell
was constructed prior to 1986, and is identified as MW -0 in this Order. There is
no available information on the construction of MW -0, such as boring logs or
screening intervals, and it is currently capped on the surface preventing any
measurement of depth to groundwater. Accordingly, MW -0 is in need of
rehabilitation and/or reconstruction prior to being considered viable. MW -1 and
MW-2 were constructed and developed in July, 2010. Because it requires at
least three water level measurement points to calculate gradient direction, the
two operational wells do not provide sufficient data to establish the local groundwater gradient. A groundwater monitoring assessment plan is required by this Order to establish a monitoring network that establishes the local groundwater gradient and that determines the appropriate locations to monitor discharges from the pond s.

Attachment A provides a map of the area around the WWTF.
Attachment B provides a flow schematic of the WWTF.
II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities . This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) for discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code). This Order also serves as Reclamation (Recycled Water) Requirements pursuant to section 13523 of th e Water Code.
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are
crafted to implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the be neficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives
(both numeric and narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other
(including previous) waste discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the
provisions of Water Code section 13241. The B asin Plan contains
implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88- 63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Shasta Valley
Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
a. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
b. Industrial Water Supply (IND)
c. Industrial Process Water Supply (PRO)
d. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
Lake Shastina Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2012 -0029
WDID No. 1A790100SIS




Attachment D – Fact Sheet D-3
 e. Aquaculture (AQUA)
f. Native American Culture (CUL)
C. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes
the authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives,
impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of pollutants discharged is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

