FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A-Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Facility Background
The Colton/San Bernardino Regional Tertiary Treatment and Water Reclamation
Authority
was formed by a resolution on August 2, 1994 between the cities of Colton
and San Bernardino. It is a joint powers agency with the responsibilities to construct,
operate, use and maintain the tertiary wastewater treatment and disposal systems. The
RIX Facility provides tertiary equivalent treatment to secondary treated wastewater
effluent from the secondary treatment facilities of the cities of Colton and San
Bernardino. The RIX Facility is owned jointly by the Cities of San Bernardino (80%) and
Colton (20%).
On March 29, 1996, discharges to and from the full scale 40 million gallons per day
(mgd) capacity RIX Facility commenced. The RIX Facility, which covers an approximate
area of eighty seven (87) acres, is located at 1990 West Agua Mansa Road in the
Colton area of San Bernardino County. The RIX Facility provides tertiary treatment for
secondary treated wastewater from the City of Colton's and the City of San Bernardino's
wastewater treatment plants.
2. Design Characteristics
Currently onsite are one 7.2 mgd conventional tertiary sand filter (DynaSand), two 5.5
mgd conventional tertiary cloth filters (AquaDisk), 10 percolation ponds which vary in
size, five banks of UV disinfection, 18 containment wells and 13 relief wells. On-site
extraction wells are located within and down-gradient of the percolation basins.
Groundwater monitoring wells are located within the same area. The 7.2 mgd
conventional tertiary sand filter was constructed and placed into service in 2000 to
augment treatment
capacity during wet weather conditions. The two 5.5 mgd
conventional tertiary cloth filters were placed in service in 2008 for the same purpose.
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-3
Colton/San Bernardino Regional Tertiary Treatment & Water Reclamation Authority
Regional Tertiary Treatment RIX Facility ORDER NO. RS-2013-0032
NPDES NO. CA8000304
The RIX treatment process utilizes in-situ native soil filtration by applying the secondary
treated wastewater to a series of shallow earthen basins on a rotational basis so that
basins can be operated on alternately wet and dry cycles. As the secondary effluent
percolates through the unsaturated soil media to the groundwater table, physical,
biological and chemical processes take place within the soil structure. As a result,
dissolved organic matter and suspended solids in the secondary effluent are
significantly reduced, resulting in a water quality equivalent to that produced by
conventional tertiary filtration systems. In addition, pathogens and some chemical
constituents, such as nitrogen and carbon, are also reduced. Once the wastewater is
filtered through the soil, it is pumped and extracted along with some native groundwater
underlying the percolation basins. Approximately, an annual average of 33 mgd of
secondary treated effluent (27 mgd from the City of San Bernardino and 6 mgd from the
City of Colton) are percolated daily at the site. The percolated wastewater is then
extracted together with more than 10 percent of the native groundwater. This over­
extraction is intended to ensure percolation rates are maintained. The extracted
groundwater, together with the filtered water from the conventional tertiary filters
(Dynasand and AquaDisk), is then channeled to flow through UV disinfection banks
prior to discharging to the Santa Ana River, Reach 4.
The Facility is designed to treat an influent flow rate of up to 40 mgd. In the last three
calendar years, the
highest annual average daily influent flow rate was 27.9 mgd. The
annual average effluent flow rate was 33.2 mgd in 2012. Effluent flows are higher than
influent flows because the effluent includes over-extracted groundwater. The effluent
UV disinfection structure is designed for 64 MGD capacity.
Attachment B provides a vicinity map of the Facility. Attachment C provides a flow
schematic of the treatment system at this Facility.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

