FACILITY DESCRIPTION 
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls 
The Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant accepts domestic and some 
industrial wastewater. The Facility is located at 501 East Santa Ana Avenue in the 
Bloomington area of San Bernardino County. The original wastewater treatment plant 
was constructed in 1956. Several additions to the Facility have occurred since that 
time. The Facility currently consists of five independent treatment plants: Claraetor 
No.1 (out of service), Claraetor No.2, conventional plants 3 & 4, and the newest plant is 
No.5 (Four-stage Bardenpho process). Each of the four plants provides primary 
treatment, activated sludge treatment, and secondary clarification. Combined flows 
from the plants then receive tertiary treatment through filtration and disinfection. The 
Facility has an 8 mgd UV disinfection system which never was put into operation. The 
Facility currently uses chlorine contact chambers for disinfection using an aqueous 
sodium hypochlorite and sodium bisulfate for dichlorination. Biosolids are 
anaerobically digested and dewatered. 
The Facility provides wastewater treatment service of flows from the City of Rialto, a 
portion of the City of Fontana and an area within the sphere of influence south of 1-10 & 
east of Sierra Boulevard. The total population served is about 150,000. 
The treatment plant processes are summarized as follows: 
Table 2. Rialto MWTP 
Individual Processes at Shared Processes Each Plant 
Preliminary Primary Secondary Tertiary Solids Handling Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment 
Bar Screens, Flow Equalization, Gravity Thickeners, 
Aerated Grit Filtration, Anaerobic Digestion 
Chamber, Primary Basins Activated Sludge Chlorination, Belt Press, 
Flow Secondary Clarifiers Dechlorination, Digester Gas 
Equalization UV Disinfection 
(not Utilization Facility 
used) Sludge Drying Beds 
Attachment F-Fact Sheet F-4 
City Of Rialto 
Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Order No. RS-2014-0010 
NPDES No. CA01 05295 
The combined total treatment design capacity of Plants 1 through 5 is 11.7 mgd. 
Currently, approximately 6.72 mgd is being treated at the Facility. 
Solids wasted from each plant's secondary treatment processes are pumped to a 
gravity belt thickener to reduce the water content prior to being pumped to an 
anaerobic digester for stabilization. While there is no dedicated primary sludge 
thickener at the plant, solids concentration of primary sludge is maximized through 
careful monitoring and adjustment of primary sludge pumping controls. 
Solids are stabilized by the anaerobic digestion process and then dewatered by a 
belt press. To reduce water content in the stabilized sludge, a polymer is injected 
into the sludge as it is being pumped to the belt press. Typically, sludge pumped to 
the belt press is approximately 2 to 3 percent solids. Sludge leaving the belt press is 
approximately 14 to 16 percent solids. The filtrate removed from the de-watered 
sludge is pumped back to the liquid process flow streams for further treatment. 
The plant utilizes a concrete-lined sludge drying bed where dewatered solids from 
the belt press may be spread by tractor for further solar drying. 
Generally, during rainy seasons, de-watered solids from the belt press are placed 
directly into trucks and taken to a biosolids contractor where the solids are blended 
with greenwaste and composted in accordance with biosolids regulations. During the 
rest of the year, the drying bed is utilized prior to removal by the composting 
company. 
Attachment B 
provides a map of the area around this Facility. 
Attachment C 
provides a flow schematic for this Facility. 
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters 
1. Discharge Points for Tertiary Treated Water 
The Discharger discharges tertiary treated wastewater to surface waters at two 
discharge points designated as Discharge Point (DP-001) and Discharge Point (DP-
002), see Table 3. Discharges from DP 002 occur under emergency conditions only. 
2. Discharge Point for Recycled Water Use 
DP 003 is the point where tertiary treated recycled water is pumped into the City of 
Rialto's recycled water distribution system. Currently, approximately 0.2 mgd of 
recycled water is used by Caltrans for freeway landscape irrigation along 1-10 from 
Pepper Avenue to Cherry Avenue. 
Attachment F-Fact Sheet F-5 
City Of Rialto Order No. RB-2014-0010 
NPDES No. CA0105295 Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant 
T bl 3 S a e ummary o t D" h 1sc arge p . t oms an dR ece1vmg w aters 
Discharge Latitude Longitude Description and Receiving Waters Flow & Frequency Serial No. 
Lined flood control channel tributary to 
001 34.03'04"N 117"21'11'W Santa Ana River, Reach 4, which Currently 6. 72 mgd, 
overlies the Riverside-A Groundwater continuous discharge 
Management Zone 
Emergency discharge point to the 
002 34.02'36"N 117"21'30'W Santa Ana River (Reach 4), which Used only during 
overlies the Riverside-A Groundwater emergencies 
Management Zone 
Recycled Water for freeway landscape 
irrigation areas which overlie the 
003 34.03'12"N 117"21'36'W Riverside-S and Chino 31 Groundwater Currently up to 0.2 mgd. 
Management Zones. Future recycled Frequency varies. 
water use areas may overlie the 
Riverside A, Rialto and/or Colton GMZs 
3. Stormwater 
Stormwater runoff from the Facility is channeled to a collection pit prior to being 
pumped to the Facility headworks for treatment. There are no direct discharges of 
stormwater runoff from the Facility into surface waters. 
4. Receiving Waters 
About 6.72 mgd of treated wastewater is discharged via DP-001 and/or DP-002 to 
Reach 4 of the Santa Ana River. These discharge points overlie the Riverside-A 
Groundwater Management Zone (GMZ) 
About 0.11 mgd of recycled water is currently diverted to DP-003 for freeway 
landscape irrigation. The current recycled water use area overlies the Riverside-S 
and Chino 3 "Antidegradation"1 GMZs. Future recycled water use areas may overlie 
in Riverside A, Rialto, and/or Colton GMZs. 
Ill. COMPLIANCE SUMMARY 
Based on a review of effluent monitoring data submitted by the Discharger for the period 
from 2008 through 2012, the wastewater discharged from the wastewater treatment 
facility was generally in compliance with the effluent limitations specified in the current 
waste discharge requirements, Order No. RB-2007 -0006, with the exception of some 
minor violations of chlorine contact time due to a failing CL2 analyzer pump. This issue 
has been corrected. 
The Chino 3 GMZ is considered a part of the Chino North GMZ when maximum benefit commitments by 
the Chino Basin Watermaster and the Inland Empire Utilities Agency are met. See Section V.H, below, 
for further discussion regarding this GMZ 
Attachment F-Fact Sheet F-6 
City Of Rialto 
Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant 
IV.