wastewater treatment and disposal facility and is in the design phases of developing a new recycled water storage and irrigation system. This Order is
established in support of a Facility upgrade to rehabilitate the headworks with new influent pumps;
convert the sand filter into a treatment lagoon (No. 3); dredge lagoon No. 1 and line lagoons 1 and 3 with synthetic liners; construct two irrigation storage ponds with an irrigation pump station; and develop a recycled water irrigation field. In addition, depending on the availability of funding, the
Facility upgrades may include additional rehabilitation of the headworks to include fine screening.
The City of Tulelake WWTF
Order No. R1- 2015 -0002
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS




Attachment C – Fact Sheet C-2

 Upon completion of the recycled water storage and reuse system, the Permitt ee intends to
terminate its surface water discharge and associated NPDES permit, at which point this Order will
control the treatment , storage, and reuse of the wastewater .

Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility, a site layout and schematic of the
proposed upgrades.

D. Existing Effluent and Groundwater Quality
It is anticipated that the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned upgrades to the wastewater treatment facility will result in water
quality better than represented by historic data. Still, as an oxidized wastewater system that treats
to secondary standards, there are no design standards for many of the constituents of concern. As a
result, a comparison of the existing wastewater quality to ambient background concentrations in
groundwater is warranted.

The Permittee obtains its municipal water supply from deep groundwater aquifers approximately
2,600 feet below ground surface (bgs). There are various agricultural supply wells throughout the
Tulelake sub basin, which are used to augment surface water supplie s, but there is no evidence in
the record of wells currently being used for domestic or municipal purposes in the vicinity of the
proposed recycled water storage and irrigation areas.

According to the Department of Water Resources (DWR) Bulletin 118 and the referenced USGS
geologic and hydrologic survey, water quality shifts toward higher concentrations of TDS “in proportion to the thickness or proximity of the lake deposits.”
1 The recycled water storage and
disposal site is centrally located within historic lake deposits and some degree of naturally elevated
salts is expected in groundwater .

The elevated ambient background concentrations in groundwater for iron and manganese, above
the respective MCLs, are also likely a function of the local hydrogeolo gy. USGS Groundwater -
Quality Data Series Report 6882 indicates that nearby GAMA well ID CAMP -LU-02 with a well depth
of 2,664 feet has elevated levels of iron above the secondary MCL and levels of manganese at
approximately half of the secondary MCL. The ambient background concentrations in local shallow
groundwaters within lake deposits for salts , iron and manganese are consistently higher than
deeper aquifers, which is consistent with the findings of DWR and USGS.

E. Constituents of Concern (COCs)
Ambient background TDS, conductivity, iron, and manganese concentrations in local groundwater
already exceed the respective MCLs . As described above in section I.D, the elevated concentrations
of TDS, iron , and manganese in shallow groundwaters are considered ele vated due to natural
conditions. Still, ongoing agricultural activity in the area since the development of the Klamath

1 http://www.water.ca.gov/pubs/groundwater/bulletin_118/basindescriptions/1 -2.01.pdf
2 Groundwater -Quality Data in the Cascade Range and Modoc Plateau Study Unit, 2010: Results from the Califor nia Gama
Program, Data Series 688, USDOI -USGS
The City of Tulelake WWTF
Order No. R1- 2015 -0002
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS




Attachment C – Fact Sheet C-3

 Project by the Bureau of Reclamation around 1905 has had the potential to increase nitrogen
concentrations and further increase salt concentrations in groundwater. Nitrogen and salt
constituents including ammonia, nitrate, nitrite, TDS, conductivity, sodium and chloride are,
therefore, also considered elevated in groundwater due to agricultural activities .
 Ambient background groundwater concentrations for the following constituents are less than the
respective MCLs and average effluent concentrations: nitrate, nitrite , bis (2 -ethylhexyl)phthalate,
carbon tetrachloride, cyanide, bromodichloromethane, chloroform, toluene, aluminum, antimon y,
arsenic, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, copper, lead and nickel. Discharges of these constituents
have the potential to cause small increases in the groundwater concentrations above background,
but, in all cases, below the respective MCL. As a result, this Order includes an antidegradation
analysis for these constituents in the findings below.

F. Compliance with Groundwater Quality Objectives
State Water Resources Control Board Resolution No. 88 -63 (the Sources of Drinking Water Policy)
finds that all groundwaters of the State are suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic water supply with certain exceptions, which do not apply to groundwaters underlying the
Facility . Consistent with the Sources of Drinking Water Policy, the Basin Plan designates all
groundwaters as having the potential beneficial use of municipal and domestic supply (MUN),
however, the Chemical Constituents Water Quality Objective for Groundwaters in the Basin Plan
applies to groundwaters used for MUN. The requirement of groundwater use for application of the
chemical constituent groundwater quality objective is distinct from the same objective for surface
waters, which more broadly specifies that the objective applies to all waters designated for use as
MUN.
3 The relatively unique combination, within the North Coast Region, of existing deep aquifer
municipal water supply within a region dominated by agricultural land use, the lack of MUN use of
shallow groundwater, and elevated ambient background concentrations for COCs from both natural
and agricultural causes in shallow groundwater, make the near -term anticipated use of shallow
groundwater in the vicinity of the recycled water storage and irrigation areas for MUN unlikely.

Since the discharges from the proposed re cycled water system will be at a new location and will
have the potential to degrade groundwaters for certain constituents, this Order requires treatment and containment to levels consistent with Facility performance and at levels protective of MUN,
except for COCs that already exceed the MCLs in groundwater due to natural and agricultural
causes.
 For elevated COCs in groundwater above MCLs due to natural and agricultural causes , this Order
allows for discharges in excess of the respective MCLs based on the context -specific lack of use and
unlikeliness of use of the local shallow groundwater for MUN. Accordingly, for these COCs, this
Order requires the attainment of existing effluent quality or background quality of groundwater,
whichever is of better quality. Currently, the existing effluent quality is better than background for
these COCs. However, the Regional Water Board is currently developing waste discharge

3 It may be appropriate to apply the chemical constituents water quality objective for groundwaters in other instances where
groundwaters are not currently being used for MUN due to the Potential MUN designati on, based on site-specific factors .
The City of Tulelake WWTF
Order No. R1- 2015 -0002
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS




Attachment C – Fact Sheet C-4

 requirements for agricultural discharges of waste and, as a result, anticipates groundwater quality
to improve over time for elevated COCs due to agricultural cause s. The Permittee’s recycled
wastewater volume is very minor relative to the surrounding agricultural wat er use and it is,
therefore, appropriate to regulate the Permittee’s recycled wastewater effluent within the greater
agricultural context. The State Policy for Water Quality Control for Recycled Water (Recycled
Water Policy) finds that the best way to add ress salt impacts is through the development of regional
or subregional SNMPs rather than through imposing requirements solely on individual recycled water projects. Until a subregional SNMP is developed, this Order requires the Permittee to
develop and i mplement a Salt Source Control and Infiltration Reduction Workplan to ensure
compliance with the MUN and AGR water quality objectives.
The Agricultural Supply (AGR) Water Quality Objective for Groundwaters in the Basin Plan requires
that groundwaters used for AGR shall not contain concentrations of chemical constituents that
adversely affect such beneficial uses. A common source of thres holds used to determine adverse
effects to sensitive crops is the Water Quality for Agriculture, GAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper 29
Rev 1 . The Permittee does not plan on using groundwaters for AGR and does not intend to grow
salt sensitive crops. Still , nearby farmers may use groundwaters for AGR, but when local
groundwaters are used for AGR, they are used to augment surface water supplies for agriculture ,
which have much lower concentrations of salts. Recycled water discharges of TDS and conductivity are much less than background concentrations and will likely improve groundwater quality for
these constituents. Furthermore, this Order requires the Permittee to develop and implement a Salt
Source Control and Infiltration Reduction Workplan to ensure com pliance with the MUN and AGR
water quality objectives . Discharges of recycled wastewater are, therefore, expected to comply
with the groundwater quality objective for AGR.

According to the Report of Waste Discharge and available data, the ambient backg round
concentrations in groundwater for iron and manganese are much greater than both the respective
Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs) and effluent concentrations. Wastewater discharges,
therefore, do not have the potential to degrade groundwater quality for these constituents.
G. Basis for Effluent Limitations
In establishing effluent limitations for COCs at a level that is the most protective of water quality,
but also reflective of the best practicable treatment and control of the discharge, best professio nal
judgment (BPJ) was used. Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) is limited to the levels identified in
the ROWD as achievable by the upgraded wastewater treatment facility based on existing available
data. Other chemical specific effluent limitations were e stablished at a level achievable by the
Permittee using the general statistical data analysis functions of RPcalc (version 2.2) on available
data . RPcalc calculates an upper confidence bound (UCB) “using the USEPA (1991) Technical
Support Document for Water Quality -based Toxics Control method (TSD -LogNorm), which
multiplies the sample maximum by a reasonable potential coefficient of variation multiplying factor
under a lognormal distributional assumption. The TSD -LogNorm UCB can be characterized as a
semi-parametric procedure.” (Saiz, S. (2013, February 8) RPcalc User's Guide (version 2.2)). A
coefficient of variation representing a 95
th percent upper confidence bound on the 95th percentile of
the lognormally transformed data was used to develop effluen t limitations. This produces effluent
limits that will be easily achievable by the Permittee on an average basis. The TSD- LogNorm UCB
for bis (2 -ethylhexyl) phthalate and dissolved aluminum are greater than the MCL. Since there has
The City of Tulelake WWTF
Order No. R1- 2015 -0002
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS




Attachment C – Fact Sheet C-5

 been no demonstration of additional soil treatment and attenuative capacity, the effluent limits for
these constituents were set equal to the respective MCLs. For dissolved aluminum, an effluent
limitation set at the MCL coincides with a coefficient of variation consistent wi th the 55th percentile
of the available data with a 95 percent confidence level. As a result, an interim limitation for
aluminum is necessary to assure that compliance can be consistently achieved. The planned
treatment upgrades will result in higher qua lity effluent that will likely comply with the final
effluent limitation. If this is not the case, the Permittee will have time to develop a plan to reduce aluminum concentrations in the effluent. Moreover, additional data collected as required by the
permit may be used to reevaluate effluent limitations and permit requirements in the future.

II. FINDINGS
A. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for discharges to
land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Wat er Code (Water Code).
B. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to implement the
Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and in so doing, the Regional
Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality
objectives (both numeric and narrative) reas onably required for that purpose, other (including
previous) waste discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section
13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin.
The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No.
88-63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered
suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic su pply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Lost River Hydrologic Area to be
protected are as follows:
1. Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN)
2. Agricultural Water Supply (AGR)
3. Industrial Service Supply (IND)
4. Industrial Process Supply (PRO)
5. Groundwater Recharge (GWR)
6. Freshwater Replenishment (FRSH)
C. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the authority for the
Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitio ns, and
prescribe waste discharge and water recycling requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires
each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in
its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance
[…].” The control of pollutants discharged is established through effluent limitations and other requirements in W aste Discharge Requirement permits. Water Code section 13243 provides that
“A regional board, in a water quality control plan or in waste discharge requirements, may specify
certain conditions or areas where the discharge of waste, or certain types of waste, will not be
permitted. Water Code section 13260 et seq establishes regulations associated with the
prescription of waste discharge requirements and Water Code Chapter 7 (section 13500 et seq)
establishes regulations associated with the prescription of reclamation requirements.
The City of Tulelake WWTF
Order No. R1- 2015 -0002
WDID No. 1A84002OSIS




Attachment C – Fact Sheet C-6

 It is the Regional Water Board’s intent that this Order shall ensure attainment of water quality
standards, applicable water quality objectives, and protection of beneficial uses of