Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coas t Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed
the requirements in this Order b ased on information submitted a s part of the
Discharger’s application for permit renewal, monitoring data su bmitted during the
term of the Discharger’s previou s Order, and other available in formation.
B. Background and Facility Description . The City of Etna (hereinafter Discharger)
is currently discharging pursuan t to Waste Discharge Requiremen ts Order No. 98‐
3. A Report of Waste Discharge ( ROWD) for renewal of waste dis charge
requirements was requested by De cember 31, 2014, for the discha rge up to 0.130
mgd (ADWF) of treated wastewater from the City of Etna Wastewat er Treatment
Facility (WWTF), hereinafter Fa cility. No ROWD was submitted.
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and dis posal system
comprised of a gravity collectio n system, and oxidation/percola tion/evaporation
ponds. The Facility has five oxi dation ponds for treatment and three
percolation/evaporation ponds for effluent disposal.
The collection system consists of a conventional gravity collec tion system, which
transports wastewater to the pond system for treatment and disp osal. There is no
screening and no removal of solids prior to wastewater entering the oxidation
ponds.
Attachment A provides a map of t he area around the Facility. Discharger The City of Etna
Name of Facility The City of Etna Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address Island Road
Etna, CA 96027
Siskiyou County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Dan Burbank, Director of P ublic Works, (530) 467‐3673
Mailing Address P.O. Box 460, Etna, CA 96027
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow 0.130 million gallons p er day (mgd) Average Dry Weather Flow
(ADWF)
The City of Etna WWTF
Order No. R1‐2015‐0026 WDID No. 1A82104OSIS




 4
 C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Di scharge Requirements (WDRs)
for discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water
Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are cr afted to
implement the Water Quality Cont rol Plan for the North Coast Re gion (Basin Plan),
and in so doing, the R egional Water Board has taken into consid eration the beneficial
uses to be protected, the water quality objectiv es (both numeri c and narrative)
reasonably required for that pur pose, other (including previous ) waste discharges,
the need to prevent nu isance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The
Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for prote cting waters of the
basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State
Water Board) Resolution No. 88‐63, which established state poli cy that all waters,
with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or poten tially suitable for
municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Scott Valley
Hydrologic Subarea of the Scott River Hydrologic Area to be pro tected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (M UN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), i ndustrial process su pply (PRO), groundwa ter recharge (GWR),
and freshwater replenishment (FRSH).
 The beneficial uses applicable to Johnson Creek and the Scott River within the
Scott Valley Hydrologic Subarea of the Scott River Hydrologic A rea to be protected
are as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultur al water supply
(AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supp ly (PRO), groundwater
recharge (GWR), freshwater reple nishment (FRSH), navigation (NA V), hydropower
generation (POW), water contact recreation (REC‐ 1), non‐contact water recreation
(REC‐2), commercial and sport fi shing (COMM), cold freshwater h abitat (COLD),
wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, th reatened, or endangered specie s (RARE), migration
of aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or ear ly development
(SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. California Water Code. The California Water Code ( Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quali ty objectives,
impose discharge prohibitions, a nd prescribe waste discharge an d reclamation
requirements. Water Code secti on 13241 requires each regional b oard to
“establish such water quality ob jectives in water quality contr ol plans as in its
judgment will ensure the reasona ble protection of beneficial us es and the
prevention of nuisance […].” The control of pollutants discharg ed is established
through