Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coas t Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information submitted as pa rt of the
Discharger’s application for permit, monitoring data, and other available
information. Attachments A and B are hereby incorporated into this Order.
B. Background and Facility Description . The JH Ranch (hereinafter Discharger) is
currently discharging pursuant to a Siskiyou County Health Depa rtment permit. A
Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) for new waste discharge requir ements was
received on September 24, 2014, for the discharge up to 0.045 m gd of treated
wastewater from the existing JH Ranch Wastewater Treatment Faci lity (WWTF),
hereinafter Facility.
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and dis posal system
comprised of a gravity collection system, two 20,000‐gallon per day multi‐staged
aerobic fixed media treatment ta nks, one 5,000 gallon per day m ulti‐staged aerobic
fixed media treatment tank, an 1 ,800 linear feet subsurface lea chfield designed for
a discharge of 10,800 gallons per day, and a subsurface drip di sposal leachfield
designed for a discharge of 38,100 gallons per day.
The Discharger has operated th e WWTF since 2001. From 2001 to the present, the
Facility was regulated by Siskiyou County. Prior to 2001, wast ewater treatment
and disposal at the JH Ranch was through individual septic tank s and leachfields.
Attachment A provides a map of t he area around the Facility. Discharger The JH Ranch
Name of Facility The JH Ranch Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address 8525 Homestead Lane
Etna, CA 96027
Siskiyou County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Rob Hayes‐St. Clair, Facility Manager, (530) 467‐3468
Mailing Address 8525 Homestead Lane, Etna, CA 96027
Type of Facility Privately Owned Treatment Works
Facility Design Flow 0.045 million gallons per day (mgd)
The JH Ranch WWTF
Order No. R1‐2016‐0013 WDID No. 1A14143RSIS




 4
 C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Di scharge Requirements (WDRs)
for discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water
Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are cr afted to
implement the Water Quality Cont rol Plan for the North Coast Re gion (Basin Plan),
and in so doing, the R egional Water Board has taken into consid eration the beneficial
uses to be protected, the water quality objectiv es (both numeri c and narrative)
reasonably required for that pur pose, other (including previous ) waste discharges,
the need to prevent nu isance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The
Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for prote cting waters of the
basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water
Board) Resolution No. 88‐63, which established state policy tha t all waters, with
certain exceptions, should be co nsidered suitable or potentiall y suitable for municipal
or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Scott Valley
Hydrologic Subarea of the Scott River Hydrologic Area to be pro tected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (M UN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), i ndustrial process su pply (PRO), groundwa ter recharge (GWR),
and freshwater replenishment (FRSH).
 The beneficial uses applicable to French Creek and the Scott R iver within the Scott
Valley Hydrologic Subarea of the Scott River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as
follows: municipal and domestic s upply (MUN), agricultural wate r supply (AGR),
industrial service su pply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO ), groundwater
recharge (GWR), freshwater reple nishment (FRSH), navigation (NA V), hydropower
generation (POW), water contact recreation (REC‐ 1), non‐contact water recreation
(REC‐2), commercial and sport fi shing (COMM), cold freshwater h abitat (COLD),
wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, th reatened, or endangered specie s (RARE), migration of
aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawni ng, reproduction, and/or early development
(SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. California Water Code. The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional
Water Board to establish water q uality objectives, impose disch arge prohibitions,
and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Wa ter Code section
13241 requires each regional board to “establish such water qua lity objectives in
water quality control plans as i n its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection
of beneficial uses and the preve ntion of nuisance […].” The co ntrol of waste is
established through