Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coas t Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed
the requirements in this Order b ased on information submitted a s part of the
Discharger’s previous applicatio n for permit renewal, monitorin g data submitted
during the term of the Discharger’s previous Order, and other a vailable
information.
B. Background and Facility Description . The Tennant CSD (hereinafter
Discharger) is currently dischar ging pursuant to Waste Discharg e Requirements
Order No. 88‐79. The renewal of these waste discharge requirem ents is for the
discharge up to 37,300 gpd average monthly flow of treated wast ewater from the
Tennant CSD Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF), hereinafter F acility.
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and dis posal system
comprised of a gravity collectio n system, septic tank treatment and effluent
disposal leachfields. Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Di scharge Requirements (WDRs)
for discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water
Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are cr afted to
implement the Water Quality Cont rol Plan for the North Coast Re gion (Basin Plan),
and in so doing, the R egional Water Board has taken into consid eration the beneficial
uses to be protected, the water quality objectiv es (both numeri c and narrative)
reasonably required for that pur pose, other (including previous ) waste discharges, Discharger The Tennant CSD
Name of Facility The Tennant CSD Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address Tennant Road
Tennant, CA 96058
Siskiyou County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Marvin Tolbert, Water Operator, (530) 398‐4185
Mailing Address 13515 Tennant Road, Tennant, CA 96058
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow 37,300 gallons per day (gpd) Average Daily Flow
The Tennant Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1‐2016‐0019 WDID No. 1A88031RSIS



 4
 the need to prevent nu isance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The
Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for prote cting waters of the
basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State
Water Board) Resolution No. 88‐63, which established state poli cy that all waters,
with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or poten tially suitable for
municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Tennant Hydrologic
Subarea of the Butte Valley Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows: municipal
and domestic supply (MUN), agric ultural water supply (AGR), ind ustrial service
supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater rech arge (GWR), and
freshwater replenishment (FRSH).
 The beneficial uses applicable t o Antelope Creek within the Te nnant Hydrologic
Subarea of the Butte Valley Hydr ologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (M UN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), i ndustrial process su pply (PRO), groundwa ter recharge (GWR),
freshwater replenishment (FRSH), hydropower generation (POW), w ater contact
recreation (REC‐1), non‐contact water recreation (REC‐2), comme rcial and sport
fishing (COMM), warm freshwater habitat (WARM), cold freshwater habitat (COLD),
wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, th reatened, or endangered specie s (RARE), migration
of aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or ear ly development
(SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. California Water Code. The California Water Code ( Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quali ty objectives,
impose discharge prohibitions, a nd prescribe waste discharge an d reclamation
requirements. Water Code sect ion 13241 requires each regional board to
“establish such water quality ob jectives in water quality contr ol plans as in its
judgment will ensure the reasona ble protection of beneficial us es and the
prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is establish ed through