Discharge Description
The Facility wastewater treatment system is designed for an average daily flow of 14,200
gallons per day (gpd) . As described in the ROWD, the projected untreated and treated
domestic wastewater quality from the Facility is co nsistent with the characterization of
wastewater in the General Order.
 The overall plan layout of the wastewater collection system is included as attachments to a Department of Forestry and Fire Protection letter dated April 16, 1998, and a Cal Fire email
dated January 10, 2016. The letter, email and attachments are part of this NOA by reference.
 Primary Treatment and Collection System
Primary waste treatment and collection will be provided using a kitchen grease interceptor, septic tanks, gravity collec tion system and lift stations, as described below.
 A 1,500 -gallon grease interceptor serves the kitchen of the mess hall building . The
Discharger pumps the interceptor twice a year . Wastewater passing through the
interceptor is combined with other Facility wastewater and directed to a bar screen for removal of large solids and debris . After passing through the bar screen the wastewater is
directed to one of two 10,000 -gallon septic tanks for primary treatment. The Discharger
pumps solids from the two septic tanks annually.

Following primary treatment in the septic tanks wastewater enters into an adjacent lift station (Lift Station 1) . Wastewater is then pumped from Lift Station 1 across a bridge and
uphill to a second lift station (Lift Station 2) . Lift Station 2 is located adjacent to the
footprint of the former wastewater pond . Wastewater is pumped from Lift Station 2 uphill
to a septic tank and the upper leachfield.
 Both lift stations are equipped with duplex pumps and float switches that are controlled
and monitored by an adjacent pump control panel with visual and audible alarms . A flow
meter at Lift Station 1 measures the volume of wastewater sent to the upper leachfield.

Wastewater Discharge System
Following primary treatment, wastewater will be disposed of at the upper leachfield, located in the area of a former orchard . Wastewater pumped to the upper leachfield septic
tank by Lift Station 2 is directed via a distribution box to one of two branches of the upper leachfield. The lineal length of the upper leachfield is approximately 5,300 feet. The northern most branch consists of 2,600 feet of leach line and 200 feet of infiltrator
chambers . The southern branch consists of 2,300 feet of leach line and 200 feet of
infiltrator chamber s. The leachfield is designed to dispose of 14,200 gpd of wastewater
with an application rate of 0.6 gallons/square foot/day . The Discharger identified a 100
percent reserve disposal field area in the same area, directly adjacent to the upper leachfield . The disposal field, reserve area, and treatment system components meet the
setback requirements in the General Order.

CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 4 - March 13, 2017



General WDR Order Coverage
Commencing on the date of this NOA, waste discharges from the Facility’s domestic
wastewater treatment system are regulated under the General Order (Order WQ 2014 -
0153- DWQ).
 2. California Environmental Quality Act

The Parlin Fork Conservation Camp domestic wastewater discharge covered under the General Order is exempt pursuant to California Code of Regulations , title 14, section 15301
(ongoing or existing projects) . The Facility is an existing wastewater treatment facility
with no expansion of use or wastewater flow beyond existing uses and beyond existing
design capacity . The Facility is located in a rural area where other facilities and
dischargers of the same type are not expected over time.

3. Site -Specific Requirements and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

