FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP ) and as sociated
wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population of 12,3 00 residential, commercial ,
and institutional users in the City of Fortuna and the Rohnerville -Campton Heights area.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located to the south of the City of Fortuna, California, and east of the Eel River .
Treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Strongs Creek during winter
discharge months and to the perc olation ponds , which are hydrologically connected to the Eel
River, during the summer through Discharge Point 003.
Collection System
Flows enter the treatment facility by gravity from the north part of the city and through a force
main at a lift station on Strongs Creek . The lift station conveys sewage from the south end of the
city. Sewa ge enters the plant north of the headworks.
Wastewater Treatment
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1. 5 mgd, and a peak wet weather
flow of 7.0 mgd . When influent flows exceed 3 to 4 mgd , influent is partially diverted to an
emergency overflow basin .
Wastewater in the equalization basins is returned for treatment during low flow periods .
Wastewater enters the headworks, which provides grit and screenings removal with an
automatic bar screen and grit channels . Primary sedimentation in one of three circular primary
clarifiers settles out heavier solids, and sludge collectors in the tanks sweep the sludge into a sludge hopper where it is pumped to the anaerobic digester or gravity belt sludge thickener.
Secondary treatmen t includes mixing primary effluent with return -activated sludge (RAS) in the
aeration basins . Mixed liquor from the aeration basins flows to two final clarifiers to settle out
Order No. R1- 2017 -0005
City of Fortuna
NPDES No. CA0022730



Attachment F – Fact S heet F-5
 activated sludge. Disinfection is achieved using chlorine gas and ammonia to form chloramines,
followed by dechlorination .
Effluent is discharged to one of two discharge points, based upon the time of year . From October
1 through May 14, treated effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 to Strongs Creek, a
tributary to th e Eel River . From May 15 to September 30, treated effluent is discharged through
Discharge Point 003 into two parallel percolation ponds adjacent to the Eel River . Historically,
Discharge Point 003 was considered a discharge to land . Water board staff h as found that the
percolation ponds are below the mean high water mark of the Eel River and that water has been
seen surfacing from groundwater into the percolation ponds . For these reasons, the percolation
ponds are considered hydrologically connected to the Eel River and are subject to Final

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
There are no major changes planned for the Facility during this permit term.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, PO LICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The req uirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described in
this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and
implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( U.S. EPA ) and
chapter 5.5, division 7 of the California Water Code (c ommencing with section 13370) . It shall
serve as a NPDES permit for point source discharges from this F acility to surface waters. This
Order also serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article 4, chapter 4,
division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13260) .
Order No. R1- 2017 -0005
City of Fortuna
NPDES No. CA0022730



Attachment F – Fact S heet F-8
 B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exem pt from the
provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of Division 13 of the Public
Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan . The Regional Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control
Plan for the North Coast Region (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses,
establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to
achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan . In addition, the Basin
Plan implements State Water Board Resolutio n No. 88 -63, which establishes state policy
that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable
for municipal or domestic supply . The Basin Pl an does not specifically identify beneficial
uses for Strongs Creek, but does identify present and potential uses for the Eel River within the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel River Hydrologic Area . Beneficial uses
applicable to Strongs Creek are summarized in Table F -4, below:
Table F-4. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point