Collection System and Primary Treatmen t
The majority of the campus wastewater is collected and delivered to the wastewater treatment
plant via a standard gravity collection system. The collection system has one pump station that
serves the Child Development Center and a Snack Shack. The prop osed system upgrade will
include replacement of this pump station.
Primary sewage treatment is provided by an 80,000 -gallon three- chambered cast- in-place septic
tank. The influent septic tank allows for pretreatment through liquids/solids separation which
significantly reduces biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS)
loading on downstream treatment units. In addition, the septic tank provides an anoxic
environment for organic nitrogen conversion and denitrification. The design eng ineers indicate
that the septic tank is specifically designed to handle the peak daily design flow of 80,000 gallons .
Therefore, the minimum hydraulic detention time for the design flow event will be one day.
Given its size, the septic tank is expected to afford a degree of attenuation of diurnal peaks as
well as wet weather peaks. The solids in the septic tank will be periodically pumped and hauled
to an appropriate offsite location for treatment and disposal.
The College will monitor influent flow foll owing the septic tank, using a v -notch weir and
ultrasonic level system to measure the range of flows. This configuration is intended to reduce
the problems associated with fouling of flow measuring systems with raw wastewater influent
solids and debris that are problematic in traditional flumes during low flow periods. Due to the
variable nature of the population on the campus throughout the day and by season, very low
flows are expected to occur diurnally as well as during breaks in the academic year. Although the
septic tank will attenuate flows to some degree, the septic tank effluent flow is expected to be
representative of the wastewater flow characteristics.
Secondary Wastewater Treatment
After flow measurement, septic tank effluent is conveyed to a 40,000- gallon recirculation tank.
The recirculation tank provides additional storage in the treatment system to help attenuate
peak flows. Additionally, the tank provides an anoxic environment for continued denitrification.
After the recirculation tank, the effluent goes to two recirculating gravel filters in parallel, which
provide the main secondary treatment for the Facility. The recirculating gravel filters are dosed
with wastewater from the recirculation tank using two recirculation pumps (one on duty and one
on standby). The filters provide an aerobic environment which promotes nitrification as well as
further BOD and TSS removal through various physical and biological mechanisms. The
recirculating gravel filter system is composed of two gravel filters, with a total filter surface of
College of the Redwoods - 4 - June 7, 2018
Notice of Applicability


approximately 13,200 square feet (sf). The design engineer reports that the hydraulic loading
rate used will provide overall robustness to the design and afford a factor of safety for handling
periodic peak flows that may occur. The yard piping is configured to return flow from the gravel
filter underdrain to the septic tank to aid in the denitrification process prior to disposal to the
leach field.
Wastewater Discharge System
The recirculation tank is equipped with a recirculating splitter valve. As the level of water in the
recirculation tank rises, it will cause a floating ball valve to shut off the water returning from the
recirculating gravel filters and will divert it to the effluent pump station wet well. T he wet well is
equipped with two pumps (one in use and one on standby). Rising water level in the effluent
pump station wet well will start the lead effluent pump and pump down the wet well to the low
level shut off. In the event of unusually high flows, the standby pump can run as well. Effluent
pumped to the leach field will not be disinfected. The effluent pumps will discharge to a 6 -inch
diameter force main that is routed approximately 3,300 feet along the Facility’s property line and
the Humboldt C ounty Right of Way to the leach field location.
The leach field site is located behind the existing stadium, approximately 70 feet uphill from the
treatment facility. The design engineer selected this site following a campus wide search for
suitable leach field locations that would have the right combination of available area, compatible
uses, soil conditions, groundwater characteristics, percolation characteristics, and other factors.
There are two leach fields for effluent distribution. Field 1 is 921 f eet long and Field 2 is 931 feet
long. Each trench has 11 feet of sidewall below the leach line. This results in 21,183 square feet
of infiltrative area in Field 1 and 21,413 square feet of infiltrative area in field 2. Indexing
distribution valves are used to alternate application between l each lines with each cycle of
effluent pumps. This arrangement allows soil moisture levels to recover prior to receiving more
effluent.
General WDR Order Coverage
From the date that the new facility comes online and begins discharging to the leach field,
scheduled for June 2020, waste discharges from the Facility are regulated under the General
Order (Order WQ 2014- 0153- DWQ).
2. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
As an existing facility, the facility upgrade project described in this NOA is categorically exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 14, section 15301, (ongoing or existing projects), section 15302 (replacement
or reconstruction of existing utility systems), and section 15303 (new construction or conversion
of small structures).
3. SITE -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND

===PLANNED CHANGES===

