Discharge Description

Facility
The Caltrans Collier Rest Area (Facility) is owned and operated by Caltrans and is located
directly off Highway 199, northeast of Gasquet in Del Norte County. The Facility is not
located in an area served by a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic
wastewater is collected and treated on- site. The site location is shown on Attachment A,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.

The Facility serves as the only state- operated safety roadside rest area along Highway 199
between Crescent City California and Grants Pass Oregon. It consists of one comfort station
building which has 5 toilets, 2 urinals and 6 sinks. Drinking water for the Facility comes
from Johnny Walker Creek, Griffin Creek and one groundwater supply well. The Facility
was not previously regulated under permit by the Regional Water Board.

The Facility’s wastewater originating from the comfort station restroom will be treated and
disposed of via the wastewater treatment system. The wastewater system will consist of
collection system piping, grinder lift station, urine diversion tank, septic tank, upflow solids
contact tanks, anaerobic media tanks, equalization tank and a subsurface pressure dosed
drip disposal field.

Discharge Description
The domestic wastewater treatment system is designed for treatment of a mean daily flow
of 1,900 gallons per day (gpd). As des cribed in the ROWD, the projected untreated and
treated domestic wastewater quality from the Facility is consistent with the
characterization of wastewater in the General Order.

The plan layout of the wastewater collection system is included in the Engineers Report for
California Department of Transportation, Division of Engineering Services, Collier Tunnel
SRRA, prepared by Northstar, and dated September 25, 2017. These plans and reports are
made part of this NOA by reference.

Primary Treatment and Collection System
Primary domestic waste treatment and collection will be provided using a gravity
collection system, urine diversion tank and septic tank, as described below.

Wastewater from the comfort station flows to the lift station. The urinal wastewater drains
to urinal storage tank where it is stored before draining back to the treatment process. The
urine diversion tank will be connected to the solids process tank and pumped through the
treatment process when flows and environmental conditions are favorable for increased
nitrogen reduction. Grinder pumps in the lift station discharge the wastewater into a
Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 3 - June 18, 2018



6,000- gallon septic tank with an effluent filter. The septic tank is designed to provide for
solids removal prior to effluent entering the secondary wastewater system.

Secondary Wastewater Treatment System
A secondary wastewater treatment system will be installed to reduce the organic strength
and solids content of the domestic wastewater to levels that are protective of groundwater
quality prior to disposal to the subsurface pressure dosed disposal field. The treatment
system consists of upflow solids contact tanks, anaerobic media tanks, equalization tank,
and pip ing, pumps, and controls. The treatment system can be operated locally at the
facility as well as remotely using a cloud based Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system. In case of power failures, a stand -by generator will be installed to p rovide
electricity during electrical power outages.

Wastewater Discharge System
Following secondary level treatment, effluent will be disposed of at a subsurface pressure-
dosed disposal field. A flow meter will measure the volume of effluent being discharged to
the disposal field.

The subsurface disposal field will be located on the southwest side of the Facility. The
disposal field is designed to dispose of 1,900 gpd mean daily flow and 5,700 gpd peak flow
of effluent, with an application rate between 0.5 to 0.67 gallons/square foot/day. The
disposal field will consist of 5,200 square feet of leachline parceled into three zones.
A 100 percent reserve disposal field area has been designated. The disposal field, reserve
area, and treatment system com ponents meet the setback requirements in the General
Order.

General WDR Order Coverage
Commencing on the date of this NOA, waste discharges from the Facility’s domestic
wastewater treatment system are regulated under the General Order (Order
WQ 2014- 0153- DWQ).

2. California Environmental Quality Act

On September 27, 2017, Caltrans certified a Categorical Exemption Class 1(b) under the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for the construction of the wastewater
system.

3. Site -Specific Requirement s

A. General
The General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
systems covered under the General Order, and specifications that apply only to specific
types of treatment and/or disposal systems. Discharges of wastes other than those
described in the ROWD are prohibited.


Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 4 - June 18, 2018



Wastewater system managers and operators must be familiar with the applicable
requirements contained in the General Order, this NOA, and MRP R1 -2018- 0040.

B. Reports to be Submitted to the Regional Water Board
1. The following technical reports, which form the main components of a comprehensive
Operation, Maintenance, and Monitoring program, shall be submitted as described
below:

a) By December 31, 2018, the Discharger shall submit a Spill Prevention and
Emergency Response Plan (Response Plan) consistent with the requirements of
General Order Provision E.1.a. The Response Plan shall, at a minimum, address the
following:
1) Operation and Control of Wastewater Treatment
2) Solids and Sludge Handling
3) Collection System Maintenance
4) Emergency Response
5) Notification Procedures

b) By December 31, 2018, the Discharger shall submit a Sampling and Analysis Plan
consistent with the requirements of General Order Provision E.1.b.

2. The above reports sh all be acceptable to the Regional Water Board’s Executive Officer.

C. Septic Tank
The domestic wastewater system serving the Facility includes a 6,000 -gallon septic tank
that provides primary treatment of the wastewater. Septic tanks require proper operation,
maintenance, and monitoring in order to provide adequate and reliable wastewater
treatment. This includes periodic inspection and removal, as needed, of accumulated
solids. Requirements for septic tanks are included in General Order Section B.2, Septic
Systems, and in the enclosed MRP, at section titled “Septic Tank Monitoring and
Maintenance.” Operational maintenance and monitoring work on the septic system shall
be conducted by qualified service providers approved by the Regional Water Board
Exec utive Officer with appropriate oversight by the Discharger. The Discharger is
responsible for ensuring proper operation, maintenance, and monitoring of all septic tanks.

D. Subsurface Disposal System Requirements
The domestic wastewater system includes d ispersal of treated effluent to subsurface soil
via a 5,200- square foot subsurface drip disposal system. The Discharger is required to
include a constructed primary disposal system with capacity for 100 percent of design
flows, and a 100 percent capacity designated reserve area. The reserve area is for future
use, in case the existing disposal system is found to be inadequate. The reserve area is
required to remain available until needed. The Discharger has designated a 100 percent
capacity reserve disp osal area.

Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 5 - June 18, 2018



By December 31, 2018, the Discharger shall submit “As -Built” Plans for the constructed
subsurface disposal system and any associated groundwater monitoring wells.

4. Monitoring and Reporting Program

The Discharger shall comply with enclosed MRP R1 -2018- 0040, for the Caltrans Collier
Tunnel Rest Area Wastewater Treatment System, which is made part of this NOA by
reference.

The MRP includes requirements for the monitoring and maintenance of the urine tank,
septic tank, and monitoring of the disposal field.

Quarterly self -monitoring reports and an annual summary report are to be submitted to
the Regional Water Board in accordance with the MRP. The MRP should be consulted for
all specific requirements.

5. Enforcement

The Discharger shall manage and discharge the waste subject to the terms and conditions
of the General Order and this NOA and shall maintain exclusive control over the discharges.
As such, the Discharger is responsible for compliance with the General Order and this NOA.

Failure to comply with the requirements in the General Order, this NOA, or the MRP could
result in an enforcement action as authorized by provisions of the California Water Code.

California Water Code section 13267 states, in part:

“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require
that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or
discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any c itizen or
domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge, waste
outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters within its region shall furnish,
under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional
board requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable
relationship to the need for the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports.
In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written
explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that
supports requiring that person to provide th e reports.”

California Water Code section 13268 states, in part:

“(a) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports
as required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a
statement of comp liance as required by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying
any information provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in
accordance with subdivision (b).
Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 6 - June 18, 2018



(b)(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a r egional board in accordance
with article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of chapter 5 for a violation of
subdivision (a) in an amount which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for
each day in which the violation occurs.”

The reports required in item 3.B of this NOA are necessary to ensure that the Discharger
complies with the NOA and General Order. Pursuant to California Water Code section
13267, the Discharger shall submit the reports described herein.

Please review this NOA carefu lly to ensure that it completely and accurately reflects the
discharge. If the discharge violates the terms or conditions listed, the Regional Water
Board may take enforcement action, including assessment of administrative civil liability.
Prior to allowi ng changes to the wastewater strength or generation rate, or if the method of
waste discharge changes from that described in the ROWD, you must contact the Regional
Water Board to determine if submittal of a ROWD is required.

6. Annual Fees

The waste dis charge authorized by this NOA is subject to payment of annual fees under the
State Water Board’s annual fee schedule for regulated discharges. Annual fees are based in
part on ratings for threat to water quality and complexity. The subject Facility is rated 3 -B.
The annual fee for this rating in accordance with the current (FY 2017 -2018) Fee Schedule
is $4,699; however, based on the flow rate, the discharge qualifies for the 50 -percent fee
discount. The annual fee for the discharge is currently $2349.50.

The Fee Schedule is subject to change, and the fee for this Facility may change accordingly.
Annual fees are due and payable as invoiced annually to the Discharger by the State Water
Board.

7. Regional Water Board Contact Information

Regulation of the subject domestic wastewater treatment system under the General Order
is managed by the Regional Water Board’s Land Disposal and Groundwater Permitting
Unit. The case is currently assigned to Roy O’Connor. Questions or concerns about this
NOA, the attached MRP, or related matters should be directed to Roy O’Connor at
(707) 576- 2670 or Roy.O’Connor@waterboards.ca.gov .

Sincerely,




Matthias St. John
Executive Officer

180618_RRO_er_CaltransCollierTunne l_NOA

Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 7 - June 18, 2018



Attachments: Attachment A, Site Location Map
Attachment B, Wastewater Treatment System Schematic

Enclosures: Monitoring and Reporting Program R1 -2018 -0040

cc: Timothy O’Brien, State Water Resources Control Board, Sacramento,
Timothy.OBrien@waterboards.ca.gov

Brian McNally, Del Norte County Health Department, Crescent City,
bmcnally@co.del- norte.ca.us

David Melendrez, Caltrans, Eureka
David.M elendrez@dot.ca.gov

Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 8 - June 18, 2018




Attachment A – Site Location Map




















Caltrans Collier Tunnel NOA - 9 - June 18, 2018




Attachment B – Wastewater Treatment System Schematic

===PLANNED CHANGES===

