FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Ventura WRF , a tertiary wastewater treatment plant, with a
design capacity of 14 MGD , located at 1400 Spinnaker Road, Ventura, California. The Facility
receives domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater generated in the city of Ventura by an
estimated population of 109,600. Treatment at the Facility consists of wastewater processing, biosolids processing, and a pilot test producing potable recycled water.
The design flow of the treatment facility is 14 MGD . However, the effluent discharge is limited to a
dry weather 9 MGD annual average. This is based on the 2008 average flow rate when t he
Regional Water Board mandated studies to determine if the estuary water quality and beneficial
uses were enhanced by the discharge of the effluent . A discussion of the studies conducted to
date to determine the minimum discharge is provided in II.E -Planned Changes .
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
1. Primary Treatment: The primary treatment consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation and flow equalization. Ferric chloride is injected into the primary
sedimentation sludge to control hydrogen sulfide production and to aid in primary settling.
Settled solids are removed from the primary clarifier for biosolids processing.
2. Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR): Biological treatment consists of bio -augmentation
at a biologically activated reaeration (BAR) tank , feeding into two parallel anoxic tanks and
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 four parallel aeration tanks for full nitrification and denitrification (NDN) . Activated sludge
and mixed liquor recycling is utilized to balance load demands within the system.
3. Secondary & Tertiary Treatment: Mixed liquor is transferred to six parallel rectangular
secondary final sedimentation tanks for secondary settling. R eturn activated sludge (RAS)
is collected from the clarifiers and returned to the BAR process, while w aste activated
sludge (WAS) is sent to the biosolids treatment processes. The secondary treated effluent
is sent to the horizontal pressurized mixed media filtration process.
4. Disinfection : The tertiary treated effluent is disinfected using gaseous chlorine with
ammonia addition to create chloramines with contact time through the chlorine contact chambers. Most of the disinfected tertiary treated effluent is dechlorinated using gaseous
sulfur dioxide and sent through the effluent transfer stations ( ETS) to a series of ‘wildlife’
ponds , which are unlined ponds that allow percolation and contain standing water year -
round. A portion of the disinfected effluent , averag ing 0.7 MGD annually , is distributed
using the recycled water system for landscape irrigation or dust control.
5. Biosolids Handling: The biosolids system consists of dissolved air flotation (DAF)
thickener , anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering. The primary settled sludge is
sent directly to anaerobic digesters for thickening. Secondary settled sludge is removed
from the secondary final sedimentation tanks and thickened in the DAF unit. Thickened
sludge is sent to anaerobic digesters for stabilization.
Thickened primary and secondary sludge is sent to three anaerobic digesters operated in parallel to achieve Class B biosolids. Utilizing the methane gas produced by the anaerobic
digestion, a co- generation system fuels an engine that keeps the digester heated through
a series of heat exchangers. Anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered through one of
two centrifuges to produce a cake of 18 to 23 percent solids. Sludge cake is conveyed to tractor trailers and hauled offsite for disposal. Centrate waste streams are sent back to the
facility for treatment. All of the Class B anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered and
sent to an offsite contracted composting facility .
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
Plant upgrades are planned for the existing wastewater treatment plant, in addition to new
facilities planned to protect the ecology of the estuary , develop additional water supply
sources to meet water demands for planned future growth , and enhance supply reliability
even in drought years.
1. Plant Upgrades
Plant upgrades include modification to the anaerobic digester, aeration blower and
nitrification/denitrification ( NDN) system, and bioaugmenta tion in the collection and
process systems. The City is finalizing the design of the capital improvement project to
upgrade the anaerobic digester heating and mixing system. Construction is estimated to begin after the adoption of this Order and extend to 2020. This upgrade will include
installatio n of a new gas flare and provide a more consistent gas delivery to the
cogeneration unit. It will also increase the quality of sludge produced by the digesters
that will in turn optimize the performance of the centrifuge dewatering equipment.
The City is a lso in the design phase of an aeration blower upgrade that will include the
installation of high efficiency blowers to provide the air and mixing in the aeration basins
of the biological nutrient removal (BNR) process. Installation will also include advanc ed
monitoring and control loops to better control air flow and monitor nitrate levels throughout the system. This will enable operations staff to have a greater understanding
of the nitrification/denitrification process through online monitoring and Superv isory
Control and Data Acquisition ( SCADA ) software control.
In light of the success of the bioaugmentation system utilized in the sewer collection system to address sulfide levels, the V entura WRF has designed , and will pilot a
bioaugmentation system. This system will utilize specific nitrifying bacteria and enzymes
to provide enhanced nitrogen removal to the BNR process in the short term, while larger
capital projects are planned to increase the anoxic tank capacity described below. If
successful, this bioaugmentation system will be utilized to make the BNR process more
consistent during diurnal and seasonal spikes in nitrate concentrations .
a. Nutrient Reduction through Bioaugmentation:
The Ventura WRF has also taken steps to increase biological activity in the
collection system. Traditional forms of chemical treatment were limited in controlling the septic conditions, were costly, and performed at low efficiencies. A form of
bioaugmentation was introduced and piloted at a collection system lift station and was found to successfully reduce the amount of sulfide generation which kept the
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-14 influent sulfide level down below the tolerance threshold. A group of bacterial
cultures inoculated in the system were used to control sulfides well enough to be
more cost - and operationally effective than chemical addition. This pilot also
indicated that the cultures could be utilized to reduce ammonia and chemical additions within the facility. To mitigate impacts from reduced V entura WRF influent
flows and building upon the data from the collection system bioaugmentation success, V entura WRF will be testing another pilot with culture -specific bacteria to
determine whether ammonia loading from facility side streams such as dewatering
centrate can be reduced, resulting in a more enhanced BNR process that can
achieve a higher rate of total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) removal.
b. Collection System Expansion and Upgrades
In addition to the V entura WRF plant upgrades, expansion and improvements, the
City has also expanded and completed improvements to the collection system. In
February 2016, the City assumed responsibility for the collection system from
Montalvo Community Services District (MCSD).
Among other improvements, during the permit term of 2013 – 2018, in compliance
with the SS O Consent Decree, its SSMP, and its adopted ordinance, policies and
programs, the City has completed 6 miles of sewer main and line replacement, 4
miles of sewer line repair, and repaired or replaced 265 sewer manholes.
Operationally, between 2012 and 2018, 75% of all sewer lines were visually
inspected, and 100% of force mains were inspected and the cycle restarted.
As a result of the City’s upgrades to the SSMP and collection system since executing the SSO Consent Decree, pursuant to the CIWQS Database, the City’s
collection system performed far better in terms of limiting sanitary sewer system
overflows as compared to statewide and regional average collection system
performance.
The following table presents Ventura WRF ’s planned changes contained in the 2018 -2024
Capital Improvement Project .
Table F- 5. Improvement s and Scheduled Implementation Dates
Project Name Description Schedule
Bioaugmentation
Pilot Pilot project to determine if dosing of cultivated bacterial strains
prior to the anoxic basins can augment the ammonia and nitrogen removal of existing BNR process. End of
2019
Aeration Blowers
and Control Replacement Replacing the existing aeration blowers system with new energy -
efficient blowers and instrumentation in a new building, to be fully automated with SCADA and nutrient monitoring control loops. Project completion is dependent upon results for Bioaugmentation Pilot currently under way. Current to
2021
Primary
Treatment
Enhancements This project will evaluate replacing the primary sludge gravity thickener with a new primary sludge thickening unit and pump station. TBD based
on outcome
of other
projects
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-15 Project Name Description Schedule
Tertiary Filter
Replacement This project will replace existing pressure filters with current
technology and provide capacity for future wastewater flows. This
will help to ensure optimal filtration and mitigate future turbidity
exceedances. Fall 2019 to
2020
Anaerobic Digesters Installation of a new gas flare, gas mixing equipment and heating system to improve gas delivery to the cogeneration unit, increase the quality of sludge produced by the digesters, and optimize the performance of the centrifuge dewatering equipme nt. Current to
2020
Increase Anoxic Tank Capacity This project involves the design and construction of two new anoxic
tanks to add to the existing tanks in the adjacent open space. The
increased anoxic capacity will help to alleviate the modified anoxic
zones in the aeration basins, increasing the reliability of the BNR
process and further reduce the level of nitrate. The aeration process controllers and blowers will be updated to increase nitrification. Project need dependent upon results of
Bioaugmentation Pilot currently underway. TBD based
on outcome
of
Bioaugmen
tation Pilot
Secondary Clarifier Improvements This project consists of replacing six existing rectangular secondary
clarifier mechanisms by designing and constructing improvements to better control and monitor flow distribution, enhancing settling of the clarifiers and improving turbidity and solids removal of the facility.
2024
Chlorine Contact
Cover Rehabilitation
and
Replacement This project consists of epoxy -coating the chlorine contact chamber
and the design and construction of a new, permanent cover structure to prevent algae growth within the chambers that may lead to coliform exceedances. In 2011, tarps were installed to
mitigate algae growth and coliform exceedances, and while
effective, they are prone to weathering and require frequent repair. 2024
Equalization Basin Mixing Installation of mixing in the flow equalization basins will help to prevent septic conditions from occurring in the structures and improve the performance of the primary clarifiers and biological process. 2024
Recycled Water Pump Station Upgrade This project will upgrade the existing recycled water pump stations
to one larger station to feed the entire recycled water line system. 2024
Primary Clarifier
Structural
Upgrades This project will evaluate the structural integrity of existing primary
clarifiers and consider rehabilitation or replacement of structures
along with associated pumping and piping. TBD based
on outcome
of other
projects
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020- 0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-16 Recycled Water Development
The City of Ventura has completed an engineering design concept study to increase
recycled water use and decrease discharge to the estuary. The design was presented in
the 2017 Report of Waste Discharge, at meetings with resources agencies in late 2018 ,
and in a 2019 Ventura Water Supply Projects Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR).
In addition to maintaining compliance with this Order, the objectives of the Ventura Water
Supply Projects include:
• Augmenting local water supply in an environmentally responsible and cost -efficient
manner .
• Providing a drought - and disaster -resilient water supply .
• Providing, maintaining, and improving ecological resources and related beneficial uses of the SCRE and its watershed.
• Improving municipal supply groundwater quality within the service area.
Through a Consent Decree between the City and Wishtoyo/Ventura Coast keeper/Heal
the Bay following a lawsuit brought against the City after the adopt ion of the 2008
NPDES permit , the City has committed to build and operate facilities needed to
implement the recommendations of a Science Review Panel (SRP) , with consideration of
modifications requested by the resource agencies, and achieve the goals of the Water
Quality Control Policy for the Enclosed Bays and Estuaries of California (Estuar y Policy)
at the earliest practicable date. The City supports the conclusions of the SRP that
reducing the discharges to 0.0 MGD would enhance the most sensitive beneficial uses
during critical low flow conditions (e.g., berm closed). The City is designing and
permitting a multi -facility infrastructure project that will divert up to 90% to 100% of the
current Ventura WRF tertiary treated effluent for indirect or direct potable reuse. Due to
the complexity of these new facilities, the CEQA review requirements that apply to their planning, design and construction, and the number of state and federal permits needed
to build the facilities and divert V entura WRF 's discharge away from the SCRE, the City
estimates that at least six years will be required to implement the project. The City has
proposed an accelerated schedule designed to complete construction of the facilities to
implement the SRP recommendations in furtherance of the Estuary Policy by January 1,
2025, and to make the system fully operational by December 31, 2025, as mandated by
the Consent Decree.
On March 7, 2019 , the City held a public meeting to discuss the draft Environmental
Impact Report (EIR) for future Ventur a water proj ects. The EIR proposed implementation
of a new recycled water facility to reduce the discharge of effluent into the estuary to 1.9
MGD of effluent into the estuary, with future reductions to 0.5 to 0.0 MGD in flow, with
the oversight of t he US FWS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA )
and the California Department of Fish and Wildlife ( CDFW ) and the Regional Water
Board through NPDES permitting. On October 14, 2019, the City Council unanimously
certified the EIR.
III.