Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Discharger ’s previous application for permit renewal, monitoring data submitted
during the term of the Discharger ’s previous Order, and other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description . Weaverville Sanitary District (hereinafter
Discharger ) is currently discharging pursuant to Waste Discharge Requirements
Order No. 97 -94. The renewal of these waste discharge requirements is for the
discharge up to 0.5 mgd, average monthly flow, of treated wastewater from the
Weaverville Sanitary District Wa stewater Treatment Facility (WWTF), hereinafter
Facility.
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system
comprised of a gravity collection system with one lift station serving approximately
1,200 connections , a mechanical bar s creen, activated sludge secondary treatment,
clarification, aerobic sludge digestion, and chlorine disinfection. Treated wastewater
is discharged to percolation ponds located adjacent to Weaver Creek, a tributary to
the Trinity River . Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code). Discharger Weaverville Sanitary District
Name of Facility Weaverville Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address 630 Mountain View St reet
Weaverville , CA 96093
Trinity County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Jim Cloud, General Manager , (530) 623 -6529
Mailing Address P.O. Box 1949 , Weaverville, CA 96093
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow 0.5 million gallons per day ( mgd) Average Daily Flow
1.5 mgd, peak wet weather flow
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 - April 19, 2018
Weaverville Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2018- 0004


D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality obje ctives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies f or p rotecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Weaver Creek
Hydrologic Subarea of the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as
follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater
recharge (GWR), and freshwater replenishment (FRSH).
 The beneficial uses applicable to Weaver Creek within the Weaver Creek Hydrologic
Subarea of the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industri al process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR),
freshwater replenishment (FRSH), hydropower generation (POW), navigation (NAV),
water contact recreation (REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2), commercial
and sport fishing (COMM) , cold freshwate r habitat (COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD),
rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic organisms
(MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN), and aquaculture
(AQUA).
E. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation
requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish
such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will
ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and th e prevention of nuisance
[…].” The control of waste is established through