FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a muni cipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and as sociated
wastewater collection , recycling, and disposal facilities that serve a population of approximately
1,400 residential and commercial users. The Facility discharges wastewater from Discharge Point 001
to a natural drainage channel that is tributary to the Salt River. Fr om May 15 through September 30,
and at other appropriate times based on weather and soil conditions, secondary treated wastewater is
delivered for irrigation/rec ycling use on neighboring agricultural land owned by Elias and Marilyn
Sousa .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located in the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel River Hydrologic
Area, within the Eel River Hydrologic Unit . The Facility is designed to treat an average dry
weather flow of 0.55 mgd and a peak average daily wet weather flow of 0.95 mgd.
The Facility consists of a headworks with a comminutor and bar screen; Aero -Mod treatment
system with a selector tank, four aeratio n tanks, two clarifiers, and two aerobic sludge digesters;
disc filtration; and ultra violet light (UV) disinfection.
Order No. R1- 2018 -0046
City of Ferndale
NPDES No. CA0022721



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
 Wastewater flows, by gravity, from the municipal collection system to the headworks at the
Facility . Within the headworks, the comminutor and bar screen provide primary treatment.
Wastewater from the headworks is pumped to the selector tank and then flows by gravity to the
extended aeration basins for biological treatment. From the aeration basins , wastewater flows by
gravity to the adjacent rectangular clarifiers. Return activated sludge (RAS) is selectively injected
into the selector tank and aeration basins , as appropriate , to achieve maximum nitrogen removal
efficiencies. Clarified wastewater undergoes disc filtration prior to UV disinfection. The
disinfected effluent is then directed to a holding basin (i.e., the former chlorine contact basin)
where it may be stored prior to recycling or discharge to surface water . Variable drive pumps
located within the basin provide continuo us flows when discharging to surface water.
The Permittee also accepts septage from the local area and sludge from the Scotia Community
Services District for treatment. This septage and sludg e is placed in the Permittee’s 8 million
gallon synthetically lin ed retention pond which serves as a wet -weather flow equalization basin
and provides anaerobic treatment of sludge.
Influent exceeding the design treatment capacity of 0.95 mgd (as an average daily flow) is
diverted from the headworks to the retention pond . Flows from the equalization basin flow back
to the headworks to proceed with full treatment through the Facility once average daily influen t
flows subside below 0.95 mgd.
Aerobically digested sludge is pumped to a belt press for dewatering. The dewatered sludge is
removed offsite for disposal at a permitted landfill and the Permittee may dispose of sludge at
other permitted facilities in accordance with Special Provision VI.C.5.c of the Order .
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Permittee is evaluating various projects to reduce infiltration and inflow (I&I) in its
collection system, improve operation of and reduce costs of operating its wastewater treatment
facility, increase wet -weather storage, and to increase sludge treatment. The projects are in the
planning stage and are dependent on funding. Specific projects could include, raising the dike of
the existing equalization basin by approximately 1 foot to expand the size of the retention pond
Order No. R1- 2018 -0046
City of Ferndale
NPDES No. CA0022721



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
 to prevent possible overflow from Francis Creek into the retention pond, and to consider
upgrades to the biosolids processing to provide treatment to achieve Class A biosolids for
application to City landscapes. ,
In addition, the Permittee has received a grant unde r the Clean Water State Revolving Fund to
investigate existing infiltration and inflow (I&I) issues and determine potential improvements to
the collection system. The grant also provides funding to conduct an intake study, within the
equalization basin, to determine whether modifications to the intake structure are necessary, and
to conduct a UV disinfection study to determine any modifications that may need to be
implemented to meet disinfection standards.
III.