FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permitte e owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP ) and as sociated
wastewater collection , recycling, and disposal facilities that serve a population of 1,815 , including
residential, commercial , industrial, recreational, government, utility, and institutional users in the
Graton Service Area .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located immediately north of Graton, California adjacent to Sullivan Creek,
Atascadero Creek, and the lower portion of the Pi tkin Marsh . The Facility is designed to treat an
average dry weather flow of 0.14 mgd and a peak wet weather flow of 0.85 mgd.
4. Collection System. The collection system consists of approximately 6.5 miles of 6 -, 8-, and
12-inch asbestos cement pipelines an d two lift stations. Maintenance access structures
(manholes) are constructed of concrete. Lift Station No. 1 located at 3400 Ross Road, in
Graton, is sized to pump 850,000 gallons per day (gpd), and is equipped with a natural gas
powered emergency generat or. Lift Station No. 1 receives the majority of the system’s flows
by gravity from central Graton and lifts them by force main to MH 3 -2, from which the
sewage flows by gravity to the Facility. That line receives additional gravity flow from
residential co nnections downstream of MH 3 -2. Lift Station No. 2, located at 3820 Ross
Road, conveys flows from two residences to the gravity collection system.
Order No. R1- 2018 -0001
Graton Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0023639



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
 5. Wastewater Treatment Facility . Treatment operations at the Facility include the
headworks (solids removal and flow meter), two aerated ponds, a settling pond, a tertiary
filtration chain, a pasteurization disinfection system, and two effluent storage ponds.
The headworks was designed and built with a grit chamber, a solids comminutor with a
parallel channel for bypass during comminutor maintenance, and a flow measurement
flume employing an ultra -sonic transducer to generate a signal to the flow recorder. The grit
chamber requires manual removal of collected solids. Rags and other large items are
removed manually from the bar screen. Solids are drained in to a perforated 5 -gallon bucket
and deposited in a trash container for removal to a landfill by a licensed hauler.
Two aerated ponds provide secondary treatment of the screened sewage and are capable of
operating in series or parallel. Each pond has 0.65 acres of surface area with a working
depth of 10 feet, providing a capacity of 1.25 million gallons each. The aerated ponds are
clay -lined with concrete banks for erosion protection at the water surface line. Each pond is
mixed and aerated by two surface aerators ranging from 7.5 to 10 horsepower each.
The settling pond is a 10 -foot deep clay -lined and rock armored structure that receives
effluent from the two aerated ponds . The settling pond occupies 0.6 acres and provides for a
volume of 1.2 million gallons . Effluent flows from the settling pond to the transfer wet well
through a floating surface outle t before it is pumped to the tertiary treatment system.
Settling pond water can be recirculated to the headworks through Control Structure No. 1 to
dilute incoming wastewater and reseed with good nitrifying bacteria.
Wastewater from the transfer wet well i s pumped into the Suspended Air Flotation (SAF)
system. The influent water is coagulated and flocculated in a 3 ,500 -gallon chemical mixing
tank. Flocculated solids are skimmed off the surface and removed by the SAF. The solids
dewater in bins before being transferred to the on -site compost facility. SAF effluent water
flows into a 5,000 -gallon surge tank, where it is pumped through the filters. The Permittee
utilizes a Fuzzy Filter (FF) compressible media deep bed filtration system to achieve tertiary
treat ed ef fluent. The two filters can run in parallel during “wet weather mode” or one can
remain on standby during “dry weather mode.” The filters automatically go offline and into
backwash if effluent reaches 2 NTU turbidity, or the pressure reaches 7 psi. Following the
filtration system, water flows into a 3,000 -gallon tank, referred to as the “purge tank.” Water
from this tank is used to purge the filters after their backwash cycle and acts as a flow
equalization tank between the filters and the pasteurizati on disinfection system.
Incoming water to the pasteurization system is preheated using a water -to-water heat
exchanger, where the heat from the effluent water is transferred to the incoming water. The
additional h eat needed to bring the water up to pasteur ization temperature is achieved
using an air -to-water heat exchanger. The air is heated using the exhaust from a Capstone
30-kW microturbine, supplemented by a duct burner as needed for additional heat. The
plant utilizes electricity produced by the turbin e. The minimum required pasteurization
temperature is 162.4° F for 10 seconds , but the Permittee generally operates at 165°F .
Following disinfection, tertiary treated wastewater flows to either of the two effluent
storage ponds. The two on -site storage pond s have a combined capacity of 23.14 million
gallons. This results in a 165 -day retention time in the ponds under average dry weather
flow conditions of 0.14 MGD. The retention time is reduced to 27 days of retention time
under peak wet weather flows of 0.8 5 MGD.
Order No. R1- 2018 -0001
Graton Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0023639



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
 6. Biosolids Management . Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in
the aeration and settling ponds, where they undergo anaerobic digestion and compaction.
Over time, the volume of settled solids increases, reducing the retention ti me of flow
through the pond. Sludge that collects in the aeration and settling ponds was removed most
recently in 2007. The Permittee plans to mine sludge from the bottom of the ponds during
periods of low flow and remove it through the SAF system to mitig ate future sludge blanket
accumulation.
Dewatered solids from the SAF are transferred to the compost area. The solids are
composted using static aeration to meet or excee d title 14 standards, and the composted
solids are used on site. The County of Sonoma Department of Health Services oversees the
permitting, regulation, and inspection of the composting operation.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Permittee does not have any changes planned for this permit term.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, PO LICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described in
this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, and
division 7 of the California Water Code (commencing with section 13260) .This Order is also
issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) and chapter 5.5,
division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as a NPDES permit
authorizing the Permittee to discharge into waters of the U.S. at the discharge location described
in Table 2 subject to the WDRs in this Order . This Order also serves as a master recycling permit
pursuant to article 4, chapter4, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13500) .
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the
provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (comm encing with section 21100) of Division 13 of the Public
Resources Code. This action also involves the re -issuance of waste discharge requirements for an
existing facility that discharges treated wastewater to land and as such, is also exempt from CEQA
pursuant to title 14, CCR, section 15301 as an existing facility for which no expansion of use is
being permitted.
Order No. R1- 2018 -0001
Graton Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0023639



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-10
 When approving proposals for new recycled water sites, the Regional Water Board’s action is
subject to CEQA. Regional Water Board compliance with CEQA shall be addressed during the
approval process for recycled water expansion areas set forth in Attachment G to this Order. The
approval process requires demonstration that a CEQA analysis has been conducted for the
recycled water use type and/or the geographical area of the recycled water use. The Permittee
must also submit technical information necessary to demonstrate that any proposed recycled
water use areas will be irrigated using the most stringent of the hydraulic and nutrient
agronomic rat es and include best management practices (BMPs) that are protective of surface
and ground water quality, as described in Attachment G to this Order.
If a local agency (e.g., Permittee or other approved lead agency pursuant to CEQA regulations)
has conducte d an appropriate CEQA analysis, the Regional Water Board may review the CEQA
document prepared by the local agency and make findings based on that document. If the local
agency does not prepare a CEQA document, and the project is not otherwise exempt from CEQA,
the Regional Water Board could act as the lead agency under CEQA and prepare any necessary
document s to comply with CEQA , however, this could result in delays in project approval until
such time that a proper CEQA analysis can be conducted by the Regional Water Board.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Regional Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control
Plan for the North Coast Region (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses,
esta blishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to
achieve those objectives for all waters addressed thro ugh the plan. In addition, the Basin
Plan implements State Water Board Resolutio n No. 88 -63, which establishes state policy
that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable
for municipal or domestic supply. B eneficial uses ap plicable to Atascadero Creek , within the
Guerneville Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Russian Riv er Hydrologic Area , are
summarized in Table F -4, below:
Order No. R1- 2018 -0001
Graton Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0023639



Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11
 Table F-4. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point