FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates the Facility, a municipal wastewater facility that serves a population
of approximately 7,273 within the City of Fort Bragg and surrounding unincorporated areas . The
Facility receives wastewater from Mackerricher State Park and leachate from the County of
Mendocino Caspar Landfill. The Facility is located on 281 Jere Melo Street in Fort Bragg, Mendocino
County, California.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids T reatment and Controls
1. Collection System
The collection system is made up of approximately 27 miles of clay and concrete main lines,
ranging in size from 6 inches to 30 inches in diameter . Most of the system is approximately
50 to 60 years old and is in nee d of rehabilitation. The Permittee’s Capital Improvement Plan
includes $120,000 for Cure- In-Place Pipe projects every other year to reduce inflow and
infiltration (I&I) and to conduct a closed -circuit television (CCTV) project . The collection
Order No. R1- 2019 -0020
Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District No. 1
NPDES No. CA0023078





Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
 system includ es six sewer lift stations. The Permittee has rehabilitated three of the lift
stations and plans to upgrade the other three lift stations in 2019. Collection system
rehabilitation and repair to date has resulted in a decrease in the number and magnitude of
sanitary sewer overflows. It is premature to determine if collection system work to date has
resulted in decreased infiltration and inflow.
2. Current Wastewater Treatment Facility
The current wastewater treatment Facility has an average dry weather d esign t reatment
capacity of 1.0 mgd and an average monthly wet weather treatment capacity of 2.2 mgd. The
treatment system consists of a Parshall Flume for influent flow monitoring, rag screening,
grit removal, primary clarification, two -stage trickling filters, secondary clarification,
chlorination using sodium hypochlorite , and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite . Effluent
is discharged through a diffuser at Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean.
Sludge from the primary clarifier is pumped to a gravity thickener and then to two
anaerobic digesters. Skimmings from the primary clarifier are sent to an unlined grease
lagoon for drying and storage, and then are taken to a municipal solid waste landfill for final
disposal. Sludge from the secondary clarifier is pumped back to the primary clarifier and
then the commingled sludge is pumped to the sludge thickener before being conveyed to the
primary digester. The digested primary and secondary settled slud ge is dewatered to a
minimum of 15 percent solids in a gravity belt press. Additional sludge drying takes place in
sludge drying beds prior to landfill disposal or land application . The sludge drying beds have
been demolished to make room for construction of the Aero -Mod facility.
3. Upgraded Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Permittee is currently constructing upgrades to the Facility. Construction of t he upgrade
project is expected to be completed in September 2019 and the upgraded wastewater
treatment facility is expected to be operational by October 2019.
The upgraded treatment system has been designed with an average dry weather design
treatment capacity of 0.8 mgd and an average daily wet weather treatment capacity of 4.9
mgd. The upgraded treatment syste m consist s of a Parshall flume for influent flow
monitoring prior to the headworks, headworks, grit removal, equalized influent flow
monitoring following the Influent Pump Station, Aero -Mod system, chlorine disinfection
using sodium hypochlorite , and sodiu m bisulfite dichlorination. The Aero -Mod system is an
extended aeration, activated sludge treatment system that includes a selector tank, two first -
stage aeration (nitrification) tanks, two second -stage aeration (denitrification) tanks, and
two clarification tanks. The existing clarifiers will be repurposed and used as flow
equalization basins during large storm events and to allow maintenance of the influent
pump station when needed.
Sludge generated from the Aero -Mod system will be treated in aerobic dige stion tanks and
dewatered through a b elt filter press . Dewatered sludge from the belt filter press will be
placed in t he sludge drying beds prior to landfill disposa l or land application . New sludge
drying beds will be constructed in the footprint of the old trickling filters.
Order No. R1- 2019 -0020
Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District No. 1
NPDES No. CA0023078





Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
 B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
As further described in section II.A of this Fact Sheet, t he Permittee is currently constructing
upgrades to the Facility. Construction of the upgrade project is expected to be completed in
September 2019 and the upgraded wastewater treatment facility is expected to be operational by
October 2019.
III.