numerous non -contact recreation and educational opportunities.
B. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Existing Treatment Configuration. Primary wastewater treatment consists of mechanical
bar screens, grit removal, and two primary clarifiers. Primary solids are sent to two
anaerobic digesters, sludge drying beds, and a sludge composting operation . Influent flows
above 5.0 mgd are diverted around primary treatment directly to the oxidation ponds.
Secondary treatment is accomplished using two oxidation ponds 22.4 acres and 17.3 acres
in size, respectively, and six treatment marshes. Detention time in the Facility, prior to
enhanced treatment in the AMWS, is approximately 39 days du ring average dry weather
design flow periods. Effluent is disinfected with chlorine and dechlorinated with sulfur
dioxide prior to discharged . Treated effluent is continuously commingled with effluent from
the AMWS, disinfected, and split, flowing by gravi ty either to Humboldt Bay or again
through the AMWS. The result is disinfected secondary effluent, but not all effluent receives
the benefit of enhanced treatment through the AMWS before discharge to Humboldt Bay
and some effluent may be chlorinated multip le times, increasing the opportunity to form
disinfection byproducts above water quality objectives. The average flow through the
AMWS during the previous permit (August 2012 through April 2019) was 1.14 mgd with a
maximum flow of 2.3 mgd.
2. Upgraded Treatment Configuration. The Permittee is planning to upgrade the Facility in
two phases. Phase One of the Proposed Upgrade P roject will consist of rehabilitation of the
headworks and primary clarifier, new aerators in oxidation pond one, addition of a baffle

1 State Water Board Order No. 79 -20, May 17, 1979
2 Gearhart, R.A., B. Finney, S. Wilbur, J. Williams, D. Hill, and S. Sundberg, Ci ty of Arcata Marsh Pilot Project, Effluent
Quality Results System Design Management, Project No: C -06-2270, State of California Water Resources Control
Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
3 Gearhart, R.A., S. Wilbur, H. Holbrook, and M. Ives, City of Arcata Marsh and Pilot Project, Wetland Bacteria
Speciation and Harvesting Effect on Water Quality, Project No: 3 -154 -500 -0, State of California Water Resources
Control Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
4 Regional Water Board, Resolution No. 83 -9, July 28, 1983


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
 wall and aerators in oxidation pond two, improvements to multiple pump stations,
construction of the UV disinfection system and the construction of piping for Discharge
Point 003. Completion of this phase will allow for peak flows to be discha rged to Discharge
Point 003.
Phase Two of the project will include construction of the oxidation ditch, secondary
clarifiers, return activated sludge pump station, an alkalinity feed station and rehabilitation
of the anaerobic digester. The rehabilitation of the anaerobic digester will include digester
cleaning, replacing digester covers, replacing the boiler/heat exchanger, replacing the
mixing and heating piping in the primary digester as needed, adding a sludge thickening
system and relocating compostin g facilities to a new area on site. Completion of this phase
will allow the Permittee to comply with final

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.B.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Permittee is plannin g to construct Facility
upgrades to comply with the requirements of this Order . The upgrades will include oxidation
pond and wetland treatment system improvements , construction of a parallel oxidation ditch
treatment system , construction of a UV disinfecti on system upstream of discharge to the AMWS ,
and an updated Facility configuration allowing for discharges from the AMWS to the brackish
marsh in order to provide overall improvements to effluent quality discharged to Humboldt Bay .
The Proposed Treatment U pgrade Project will replace the chlorine disinfection system with a UV
disinfection system for the peak wet weather design flows of 5.9 mgd , or greater . Emergency
flows, in excess of the peak design flows of 5.9 mgd, may be disinfected with chlorine and
discharge d via Discharge Point 001 or via Discharge Point 003 through the adaptive management
diversion line. The Permittee is investigating the possibility of disinfecting all flows with UV and
would like to maintain chlorine disinfection as a backup. Eliminating the us e of chlorine will
reduce the number of violations for dichlorobromomethane, a chlorine disinfection by- product.
The oxidation ditch and new clarifiers will provide full secondary treatment for a portion of flow ,
improve ammonia removal , BOD and TSS removal and likely address toxicity concerns . The new
discharge location, Discharge Point 003, will allow the discharge from the Facility to enter
Humboldt Bay in a diffuse manner due to the tidal mixing within the brackish marsh and
subsequent flow through tidal marshes.
III.