Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter
Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Discharger’s previous application for permit renewal, monitoring data submitted
during the term of the Discharger’s previous Order, and other available information.
B. Background and Fa cility Description. The Miranda CSD (Discharger) is currently
discharging pursuant to Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. R1 -2003- 0008.
The renewal of these waste discharge requirements is for the Miranda CSD
Wastewater Treatment Facility ( Facility ). The Facility has a design ADWF of 0. 046
mgd and a design PWWF of 0.090 mgd .
The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater treatment and disposal system
serving 115 residential and commercial connect ions . The system is comprised of
individual septic tanks , a small -diameter gravity collection system , a mixing
chamber, a recirculation tank, two gravel filter beds, a chlorination system and a
percolation pond . Individual septic tank solids are hauled off -site for disposal at a
permitted disposal facility via a Humboldt County permitted septage pumper truck.
The percolati on pond is located approximately 75 feet from the current east bank of
the South Fork Eel River.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility . Attachment B provides
a design Facility layout. Attachment C provides a Facility flow schematic. Discharger Miranda CSD
Name of Facility Miranda CSD Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address 595 River Road
Miranda , CA 955 53
Humboldt County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Ralph Emerson , Chief Plant Operator, 707 -946 -2367
Mailing Address P.O. Box 160, Miranda , CA 955 53
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow 0.046 million gallons per day (mgd) monthly Average
Dry Weather Flow (ADWF); 0. 090 mgd Peak Wet
Weather Flow ( PWWF)
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Miranda CSD WWTF
Order No. R1- 2019 -0002


C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be prote cted, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implem entation plans and policies for p rotecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be cons idered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Weott Hydrologic
Suba rea of the South Fork Eel River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native
American culture (CUL) .
The beneficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Weott Hydrologic Subarea
within the South Fork Eel River are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial
process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (G WR), freshwater replenishment
(FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation (POW), water contact recreation
(REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2), commercial and sport fishing (COMM),
warm freshwater habitat (WARM) cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife habitat
(WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic
organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN), and
aquaculture (AQUA).
E. Water Code. The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water
Board to establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and
prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section
13241 requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in
water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection
of beneficial uses and th e prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is
established through