wastewater treatment
and disposal areas.
B. Public Contact. The Discharger shall preclude or control public contact with
wastewater through such means as fences and signs, or other applicable
alternatives.
C. Vector Control. The Discharger shall manage the Facility and effluent disposal
area to prevent the breeding of mosquitos.
VI. SOLIDS HANDLING REQUIREMEN TS
A. Sludge, as used in this Order, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues
removed during primary or secondary wastewater treatment processes.
B. All collected sludges and other solid waste removed from liquid wastes shall be
removed from the lift station, septic tank, filter beds , and recirculation tank as
needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
C. All collected sludges and other solid waste removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of at a legal point of disposal , in accordance with applicable federal and
State regulations .
D. The use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with all of the land application and
disposal requirements in 40 C ode of Fede ral Regulations (C FR) Part 503, which are
enforceable by the U.S. EPA, not the Regional Water Board. If , during the life of this
Order, the state accepts primacy for implementation of 40 CFR P art 503, the
Regional Water Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
E. Sludge or biosolids that are disposed of in a municipal solid waste landfill or used as
daily landfill cover shall meet the applicable requirements of 40 CFR Part 258. In
the annual self -monitoring report, the Permittee shall report the amount of sludge
placed in a landfill and the landfill(s) which received the sludge or biosolids.
Order No. R1- 2019 -0003 - 9 -
Weott CSD WWTF

 F. The Discharger shall prevent and minimize any sludge use or disposal in violation of
this Order that may adversely affect human health or the environment.
G. Solids and sludge storage shall not create a nuisance, such as objectionable odors or
flies, and shall not result in groundwater contamination.
H. Solids and sludge storage sites shall have facilities adequate to divert surface water
runoff from adjacent areas, to protect the boundaries of the site from erosion, and to
prevent drainage from t he storage site. Adequate protection is defined as
protection from at least a 100 -year storm with a 100- year recurrence interval and
24-hour duration.
I. The storage of sludge and solids shall not cause waste material to be in a position
where it is, or can be, conveyed from the storage site and deposited in waters of the
state.
VII.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

