Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (Regional
Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Discharger ’s previous application for permit renewal, monitoring data submitted
during the term of the Discharger ’s previous o rder, and other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description . The Calpella CWD (Discharger) is currently
discharging pursuant to Waste D ischarge Requirements Order No. 86 -116. The
renewal of these waste discharge requirements is for the Calpella CWD Wastewater
Treatment Facility (Facility ). The Facility has a design ADWF of 0. 080 mgd and a
design PWWF of 0. 530 mgd .
The Discharger owns a wastewater treatment and disposal system serving 149
domestic connections . The Discharger has a service contract with Willow County
Water District for operations and maintenance. The system is comprised of two
aerated lagoons, a fac ultative pond, a chlorine contact pipe, and three percolation
ponds. Other components include an influent pump station, headworks, and a
control building. Effluent from the facultative pond is directed to the chlorine
contact chamber and slide gates control effluent flow rates to the percolation ponds.
Disposal in the ponds is accomplished by a combination of evaporation and
percolation. The percolation ponds are located approximately 60 feet to the west of
the Russian River on the east side of Highway 101 in an agricultural and rural
residential setting approximately two -thirds of a mile south of Calpella. The site is Discharger Calpella CWD
Name of Facility Calpella CWD Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address 5681 North State Street
Calpella, CA 95418
Mendocino County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Dave Redding , General Manager , 707 -272 -7857
Mailing Address PO Box 115, Calpella, CA 95418
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow 0.080 million gallons per day (mgd) monthly Average
Dry Weather Flow (ADWF); 0.530 mgd Peak Wet
Weather Flow ( PWWF)
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Calpella CWD WWTF
Order No. R1- 2019 -0010

 bounded on the west by railroad tracks, on the east by the Russian River, and on the
north and south by undeveloped land.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility . Attachment B provides
a Facility flow schematic and hydraulic profile.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
(Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for p rotecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Ukiah Hydrologic
Suba rea of the Upper Russian River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND), industrial process supply ( PRO), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native
American culture (CUL) .
The beneficial us es applicable to surface waters in the Ukiah Hydrologic Suba rea
within the Upper Russian River are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial
process supply (PRO), groundwat er recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment
(FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation (POW), water contact recreation
(REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2), commercial and sport fishing (COMM),
warm freshwater habitat (WARM) cold freshwater h abitat (COLD), wildlife habitat
(WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic
organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN),
shellfish harvesting (SHELL), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. Water Code. Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires
each regional board to “ establish such water quality objectives in water quality
control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial
uses and th e prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is established
through