Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (hereinafter Regional Water
Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed the requirements
in this Order based on information submitted as part of the Discharger ’s previous application for
permit renewal, monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger ’s previous Order, and
other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description . The Sonoma County Water Agency (hereinafter
Discharger) is currently disch arging pursuant to Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. R1 -
2001 -0069. The renewal of these waste discharge requirements (WDRs) is for the Airport -
Larkfield -Wikiup Sanitation Zone Wastewater Treatment Facility (Facility). The Discharger
submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on May 22, 2018 and applied for renewal of WDRs
to treat and reclaim up to 0.9 mgd ADWF of municipal treated wastewater from the Facility to
pastures, orchards, vineyards, agriculture, and landscapes owned by private parties .
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility serving
a population of approximately 9,400 people and 3,577 equivalent single- family dwelling units. The
service area is primarily comprised of residential users, alon g with some industrial and commercial
facilities.
The Facility preferentially produces disinfected tertiary recycled water but has the capability to
store and use disinfected secondary -23 recycled water . All recycled water that is produce d, is used
for i rrigation and frost control. If secondary treated recycled water is produced, it is used for
pasture irrigation on restricted access land at the Sonoma County Airport. Tertiary treated recycled
water is used for agricultural irrigation, landscape irrigatio n, and frost control. The production of
recycled water is addressed in these WDRs. On June 1, 2018 , the Discharger submitted a Notice of
Intent (NOI) for enrollment of recycled water uses under State Water Resources Control Board Discharger Sonoma County Water Agency
Name of Facility Airport -Larkfield -Wikiup Sanitation Zone Wastewater Treatment
Facility
Facility Address 800 Aviation Boulevard
Santa Rosa, CA 95403
Sonoma County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone George Lincoln, Water Agency Engineer, (707) 521 -1808
Mailing Address 404 Aviation Boulevard, Santa Rosa, CA 95403
Type of Facility Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant
Facility Design Flow Average Dry Weather Flow (ADWF): 0.9 million gallons per day (mgd)
Peak Wet Weather Flow (PWWF): 5.0 mgd
Order No. R1- 201 9-0007
Airport -Larkfield -Wikiup Sanitation Zone WWTF



Limitations and Discharge Requirements 4
 Order WQ 2016- 0068 -DDW, Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Recycled
Water General Order).
Influent to the Facility is gravity fed into an influent pump station wet well, then pumped to the
headworks where it is screened through a bar or spiral coarse screen for pretreatment. Screened
influent passes through a Parshall flume for flow measurement , then receives secondary treatment
through three aeration ponds (operated in series or in parallel) and two settling ponds (operated in
series). Secondary treated effluent is gravity fed to a transfer pump station wet well where it is
chlorinated in -pipe and discharged to Effluent Storage Pond No. 1 (North Pond) or conveyed to the
tertiary treatment system. The tertiary treatment system consists of four 500 -micron mechanical
screens, followed by the tertiary microfiltration membrane system where effluent c an be conveyed
through as many as four of the membrane racks for microfiltration. The filtered effluent is
chlorinated and then conveyed through up to four chlorine contact basins. The disinfected effluent
flows into the effluent pump station wet well wher e the chlorinated effluent is pumped either
through the transfer line to Recycled Water Storage Pond No. 2 (South Pond) or to the Irrigation
Pump Station and through the tertiary recycled water distribution system to the Oceanview Storage
Reservoir (Reserv oir D).
The Discharger has 95 million gallons (MG) of secondary recycled water storage capacity and 198
MG of tertiary recycled water storage capacity for a total of 293 MG of storage capacity. The
Discharger currently has signed agreements with twelve ind ividual recycled water users and
currently provides disinfected tertiary recycled water for irrigation of up to 500 acres of vineyards,
10 acres of pasture, 5 acres of grass, and 20 acres of nut trees. In addition, the Discharger
periodically applies secon dary or tertiary recycled water to 210 acres of grasslands at the Sonoma
County Airport. The Discharger also maintains agreements with the City of Santa Rosa and the
Town of Windsor to transfer tertiary recycled water to these two entities when the Dischar ger
needs assistance to maintain its water balance and the City or the Town ha s adequate storage
and/or disposal capacity to assist.
Solids are removed from the aeration and settling ponds on an as -needed basis, approximately once
every ten years. The most recent solids removal event occurred in 2018. The solids are currently
transported to the Redwood Landfill in Novato, California to be used as daily cover.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility. Attachment B provides a Facility
layou t and Attachment C provides a Facility flow schematic.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs for discharges to land issued pursuant to section
13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to implement the
Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and in so doing, the Regional
Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality
objectives (both nume ric and narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including
previous) waste discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section
13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for protecting wat ers of the basin.
The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No.
88-63, which establishe s state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered
suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Order No. R1- 201 9-0007
Airport -Larkfield -Wikiup Sanitation Zone WWTF



Limitations and Discharge Requirements 5
 Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Mark West Hydrologic Subarea of the
Middle Russi an River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply
(PRO), aquaculture (AQUA), and Native American culture (CUL) .
 The ben eficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Mark West Hydrologic Subarea of the Middle
Russian River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN),
agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO),
groundwater recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment (FRSH), hydropower generation (POW),
navigation (NAV), water contact recreation (REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2),
commercial and sport fishing (COMM), warm freshwater habitat (WARM), cold freshwater habitat
(COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic
organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early development (SPWN), shellfish harvesting
(SHELL) , and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. California Water Code. The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the authority for the
Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and
prescribe waste discharge and reclamat ion requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each
regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its
judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and th e prevention of nuisance
[…].” The control of waste is established through