Wastewater Reclamation Plant and Discharge
4. The WRP consists of two mechanically aerated concrete -lined oxidation basins , two unlined
stabilizat ion basins , and six evaporation/percolation ponds. Final disposal of treated
wastewater is by evaporation -percolation in the basins. The WRP has a reported design
treatment capacity of 150,000 gallons per day (gpd).
5. During the period of 1991 through 2011 , average annual wastewater flows from the WRP
were 15.426 million gallons (MG) . Annual w astewater discharges have declined steadily
from 26.819 MG in 1998 to 7.495 MG in 2011 .
6. Disposal ponds are checked annually for sludge accumulation and dredged as necessary.
7. Back -up power is available by portable generators .
8. There are no significant industrial users discharging to the WRP ’s collection sy stem.
Hydrogeologic Conditions
9. Annual precipitation averages about three (3) inches. Annual evapotranspiration rate is
approximately 72 inches.
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Waste Discharge Requirements
210. The Salton Sea is approximately one -half mile west of the WRP .
11. There are no domes tic or municipal production wells within one mile of the WRP .
12. Water supply to the community has an average total d issolved s olids (TDS) concentration
of approximately 150 mg/L. Water supply to the community is from production wells over
fifteen (15 ) miles away from the Bombay Beach community .
13. Historical d epth to groundwater in the vicinity of the WRP has ranged from 17 feet below
ground surface in 1961 to artesian conditions in 1976 . More current data is not available.
14. Soils in the area of the WRP consist of gravelly sand derived of gravelly alluvium from
granite .
15. Regional groundwater gradient in the area is from north to south toward the Salton Sea .
16. The WRP site is located in the seismically active Imperial Valley and is considered likely to
be subject to moderate to strong ground motion from earthquakes in the region.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
17. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses and establishes water quality objectives for
ground and surface waters in the Region, and contains implementation programs and
policies to achieve objectives. In addition, State Water Resources Control Board (State
Water Board) Resolution 88-63 requires that, wit h certain exceptions, the Regional Water
Board assign the municipal and domestic supply use to water bodies that do not have
beneficial uses listed in the Basin Plan.
18. The discharge is within the Imperial Hydrologic Unit. Beneficial uses for groundwater are:
a. Municipal supply (MUN),
b. Industrial supply (IND )
19. WDR s implement numeric and narrative water quality objectives for ground and surface
waters established by the Basin Plan. The numeric objectives for g roundwater designated
for municipal and domestic supply are the maximum contaminant levels (MCL ), and
bacteriological limits specified in Section 64421 et seq. of Title 22, California Code of
Regulations (CCR). The narrative objectives are:
a. Ground water for use as domestic or municipal water supply (MUN) shall not contain
taste or odor -producing substances in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial
uses as a result of human activity (Basin Plan, page 3 -8).
b. Discharges of water softener regeneration brines, other mineralized wastes, and toxic
wastes to disposal facilities which ultimately discharge in areas where such wastes
can percolate to ground water usable for domestic and municipal purposes are
prohibite d (Basin Plan, page 3 -8).
20. Section 13267 of the California Water Code ( CWC ) authorizes the Regional Water Boards
to require technical and monitoring reports. The Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP)
establishes monitoring and reporting requirements to implement federal and state
requirements.
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Waste Discharge Requirements
321. This Order establishes WDR s pursuant to Division 7 , Chapter 4, Article 4, of the CWC for
discharges that are not subject to regulation under Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 402 (33
U.S.C. Section 1342).
22. Pursuant to CWC Section 13263(g), the discharge of waste is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
23. The discharge authorized by this Board Order, and treatment and storage facilities
associated with discharges of treated municipal wastewater, except for discharges of
residual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the solid waste requirements of Title 27,
CCR, Section 20005 et seq. (hereinafter Title 27). This exemption is based on Section
20090( a) of Title 27, which states in relevant part that discharges of sewage or treated
effluent are exempt provided that such discharges are regulated by WDRs, or for which
WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality objectives,
and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal wastewater treatment plants,
provided that residual sludges or solid waste from wastewater treatment facilities shall be
discharged only in accordance with the applicable Title 27 provisions.
24. Federal regulations for storm water discharges were promulgated by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency on November 16, 1990, (40 CFR Parts 122, 123, and 124) to implement
the Clean Water Act’s storm water program set forth in Clean Water Act section 402( p) (33
U.S.C. § 1342(p).). In pertinent part, the regulations require specific categories of facilities
that discharge storm water associated with industrial activity to “waters of the United States”
to obtain NPDES permits and to require control of such pollutant discharges using Best
Available Technology Economically Achievable (BAT) and Best Conventional Pollutant
Control Technology (BCT) to prevent and reduce pollutants and any more stringent controls
necessary to meet water quality standards. Facilit ies used in the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic sewage, including land dedicated to the
disposal of sewage sludge that are within the confines of the facility with a design flow of
one million gallons a day (MGD) or more, or required to have an approved pretreatment
program under 40 CFR Part 403, are considered to be engaging in “industrial activity” for
purposes of the Clean Water Act’s storm water program. The Bombay Beach WRP has a
design flow of 0.150 MGD and is therefore not subject to the Clean Water Act’s storm water
program.
Groundwater Degradation
25. State Water Resources Control Board (S tate Water Board) Resolution 68-16 (“Policy with
Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters of the State”) (hereinafter Resolution 68-16)
requires a Regional Water Board in regulating the discharge of waste to maintain high
quality waters of the state (i.e., background water quality) until it is demonstrated that any
change in quality will b e consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not
unreasonably affect beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality less than as described
in plans and policies (e.g., violation of any water quality objective). Moreover, the d ischarge
is required to meet WDRs that result in the best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) of
the discharge necessary to assure pollution or nuisance will not occur, and highest water
quality consistent with maximum benefit to the people will be mai ntained.
26. Groundwater in the area of the proposed discharge is too saline for municipal use. The
Regional Water Board finds that groundwater near the site is not and cannot reasonably
be expected to be a source of municipal or domestic supply. Consequentl y, effluent
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Waste Discharge Requirements
4limitations that would be protective of a municipal beneficial use, as prescribed in Title 22,
CCR, for nitrogen, pathogens and TDS, are not necessary for this discharge. Therefore,
the treated discharge, as regulated by these WDRs, into the e vaporation/percolation ponds
is consistent with applicable water quality objectives in the Basin Plan.
CEQA and Public Participation
27. In accordance with Section 15301, Chapter 3, Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations,
the issuance of these WDRs, which govern the operation of an existing facility involving
negligible or no expansion of use beyond that previously existing, is exempt from the
provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code, Section
21000 et seq.).
28. The Boar d has notified the Discharger and all known interested agencies and persons of its
intent to draft WDRs for this discharge, and has provided them with an opportunity for a
public meeting and an opportunity to submit comments.
29. The Board, in a public meeting , heard and considered all comments pertaining to this
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, the Discharger shall comply with the
following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of waste classified as “hazardous ”, as defined in Title 23, CCR, Section
2521(a), or “ designated ”, as defined in California Water Code Section 13173, is prohibited.
2. The treatment or disposal of wastes from the facility shall not cause pollution or nuisance
as defined in Sections 13050(I) and 13050(m) of Division 7 of the California Water Code.
3. Discharge of treated wastewater at a location other than the designated disposal areas is
prohibited.
4. The discharge of any wastewater from the facility to any surface waters or surface
drainage courses is prohibited.
5. The Discharger shall not accept waste in excess of the design treatment capacity of the
disposal system.
6. The discharge of waste to land not owned or authorized for such use by the Discharger is
prohibited.
7. Surfacing, ponding or overflow of wastewater outside of the designated disposal locations
is prohibited.
8. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Waste Discharge Requirements
59.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any Board Order
condition. Causes for modification include a change in land application plans, or sludge
use or disposal practices, and adoption of new regulations by the State or Regional Water
Board (including re visions to the Basin Plan), or Federal government.
I, Robert Perdue, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy
of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Colo rado River Basin
Region, on March 21, 2013 .
Original signed by
ROBERT PERDUE
Executive Officer
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R7-2013 -0024
FOR
COACHELLA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT , OWNER/OPERATOR
BOMBAY BEACH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
Bombay Beach – Imperial County
Location of Wastewater Treatment Facilities and Discharges:
W ½ of Section 28, T9S, R12E, SBB&M
A. Monitoring
1. This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater system and groundwater quality (when needed). This MRP is issued pursuant
to California Water Code (Wat. Code) § 13267. The Discharger shall not implement any
changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer.
2. Water Code section 13267 states, in part:
“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may
require that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having
discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste within its region, or
any citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has
discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who
proposes to discharge, waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of
waters within it s region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring
program reports which the regional board requires. The burden, including costs, of
these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the report and the
benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring those reports, the regional
board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the need for
the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to
provide the repo rts.”
3. Water Code section 13268 states, in part:
“(a) (1) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program
reports as required by subdivision (b) of § 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a
statement of compliance as required by subdivision (b) of Section 13399.2, or
falsifying any information provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be
liable civilly in accordance with subdivision (b). (b) (1) Civil liability may be
administratively imposed by a regional board in accordance with Article 2.5
(commencing with § 13323) of Chapter 5 for a violation of subdivision (a) in an
amount which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which
the violation occurs.”
4. The Discharger owns and operates the wastewa ter system that is subject to Board Order
R7-2013 -0024. The reports are necessary to ensure that the Discharger complies with the
Order. Pursuant to Water Cole section 13267, the Discharger shall implement the MRP and
shall submit the monitoring reports described herein.
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Monitoring and Reporting Program
25. All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on
the sample chain of custody form. If composite samples are collected, the basis for
sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by Regional Water Board staff.
6. Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that:
a. The user is traine d in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
b. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
c. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequenc y; and
d. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the “Reporting” section of this
MRP.
7. The collection, preservation and holding times of all samples shall be in accordance with
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) approved procedures. Unless
otherwise approved by the Regional Water Board’s Executive Officer, all analyses shall be
conducted by a laboratory certified by the State Department of Health Services. All analyses
shall be conducted in accordance with the latest editio n of the “Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants” (40 CFR Part 136), promulgated by the USEPA.
8. All monitoring instruments and devices used by the discharger to fulfill the prescribed
monitoring program shall be properly maintain ed and calibrated as necessary to ensure their
continued accuracy. In the event that continuous monitoring equipment is out of service for
period greater than 24 -hours, the Discharger shall obtain representative grab samples each
day the equipment is out of service. The Discharger shall correct the cause(s) of failure of
the continuous monitoring equipment as soon as practicable. The Discharger shall report
the period(s) during which the equipment was out of service and if the problem has not been
correc ted, shall identify the steps which the Discharger is taking or proposes to take to bring
the equipment back into service and the schedule for these actions.
9. Samples shall be collected at the location specified in the WDRs . If no location is specified,
sampling shall be conducted at the most representative sampling point available.
10. Given the monitoring frequency prescribed by MRP R7-2013 -0024 , if only one samp le is
available for a given reporting period, compliance with monthly average, or weekly
average Discharge Specifications, will be determined from that sample.
11. The Discharger shall comply with the following:
a. Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be
representative of the monitored activity.
b. The Discharger shall retain records of all monitoring information, copies of all reports
required by this Board Order, and records of all data used to complete the application
for this Board Order, for a period of at least 5 years from the date of the sample,
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Monitoring and Reporting Program
3measurement, report or application.
c. Records of monitoring information shall include:
i. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements.
ii. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements.
iii. The date(s) analyses were performed.
iv. The individual(s) who performed the analyses.
v. The analytical techniques or methods used; and
vi. The results of such analyses.
12. If the facility is not in operation, or there is no discharge during a required reporting period,
the Discharger shall forward a letter to the Regional Water Board indicating that there has
been no activity during the required reporting period.
Influent Monitoring
13. Influent to the WRP shall be monitored according to the follo wing schedule:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Flow (Total Plant Influent) MGD Measurement Weekly1Quarterly
20oC cBOD 52mg/L3Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Suspended Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
1 Measurement taken weekly reported quarterly as MGD.
2 5-day carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand at 20 °C.
3 Milligrams per Liter
WRP Effluent Monitoring
14. The Discharger shall monitor effluent from the WRP according to the following schedule:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
20° C cBOD 5 mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Suspended Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Settleable Solids ml/L4Grab Quarterly Quarterly
pH pH units Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
VOCs5mg/L6Grab Annually Annually
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Monitoring and Reporting Program
44 Milliliters per Liter
5 Analysis of Volatile Organic Compounds is to be accomplished using the USEPA test
methods 601 and 602 or 624
6 Micrograms per Liter
Water Supply to the Community
15. The Discharger is required to obtain or acquire annual total dissolved solids concentrations
of the source water, either th rough monitoring or obtaining the data from the drinking water
purveyor.
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Sludge Monitoring
16. The Discharger shall report annually on the quantity, location and method of disposal of
all sludge and similar solid materials being produced at the WRP . If no sludge is disposed
of during the year being reported, the Discharger shall state “No Sludge Re moved” in the
annual monitoring report. Sludge that is generated at the WRP shall be sampled and
analyzed for the following:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Arsenic mg/kg7Composite Annually Annually
Cadmium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Copper mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Lead mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Mercury mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Molybdenum mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Nickel mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Selenium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Zinc mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Fecal Coliform MPN/gram8Composite Annually Annually
7 Milligrams per kilogram
8 Most Probable Number per gram
B. Reporting
1. The Discharger shall inspect and document any operation/maintenance problems by
inspecting each unit process. In addition, calibration of flow meters and equipment shall
be performed in a timely manner and documented. Operation and Maintenance reports
shall be submitted to the Regional W ater Board Office annually.
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Monitoring and Reporting Program
52. The Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the specified information is
readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner as to clearly illustrate
whether the facility is operating in complia nce with WDR s. Where appropriate, the
Discharger shall include supporting calculations (e.g., for monthly averages).
3. The results of any analysis taken, more frequently than required at the locations specified
in this MRP shall be reported to the Regional Water Board.
4. SMR shall be certified under penalty of perjury to be true and correct, and shall contain
the required information at the frequency designated in this MRP.
5. Each Report shall contain the following statement:
"I declare under the penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the
information submitted in this document, and that based on my inquiry of those individuals
immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the information is true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of a fine and imprisonment for knowing violations".
6. The SMR , and other information requested by the Re gional Water Board, shall be signed
by a principal executive officer or ranking elected official.
7. A duly authorized representative of the Discha rger may sign the documents if:
a. The authorization is made in writing by the person described above;
b. The authorization specified an individual or person having responsibility for the overall
operation of the regulated disposal system; and
c. The written authorization is submitted to the Regi onal Water Board's Executive Officer.
8. The Discharger shall report any failure in the facility (wastewater treatment plant, and
collection and disposal systems). The incident shall be reported immediately to the Regional
Water Board ’s Executive Officer as soon as:
a. The Discharger has knowledge of the discharge,
b. Notification is possible, and
c. Notification will not substantially impede cleanup or other emergency measures.
Results of analyses performed shall be provided within 15 days of sample collection.
9. The Discharger shall attach a cover letter to the SMR . The information contained in the
cover letter shall clearly identify violations of the WDR s, discuss corrective actions taken or
planned and the proposed time schedule of corrective action s. Identified violations should
include a description of the requirement that was violated and a description of the violation.
10. Daily, weekly, and monthly monitoring shall be included in the quarterly monitoring
report. Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted by January 15th, April 15th, July
15th and October 15th. Annual monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Regional
Water Board by January 15th of the following year.
Coachella Valley Water District Board Order R7-2013 -0024
Bombay Beach WRP Monitoring and Reporting Program
611. The Discharger shall submit monitoring reports to:
California Regional Wa ter Quality Control Board
Colorado River Basin Region
73720 Fred Waring, Suite 100
Palm Desert, CA 92260
Ordered By: Original signed by
ROBERT PERDUE
Executive Officer
Date
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
Attachment A – Site Map Board Order R7 -2013 -0024Coachella Valley Water District
Bombay Beach Wastewater Reclamation Plant
Bombay Beach – Imperial County
W ½ of Section 28, T9S, R12E, SBB&M