DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The WWTF is about 2 7 miles northeast of Three Rivers in Tulare County (section 20,
Township 15 South , Range 30 East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian [MDB&M ]). The
disposal area s (spray fields and leach fields) are in the Red Fir area (northeast quadrant
of section 25, Township 15 Sou th, Range 29 East, and northwest quadrant of section
30, Township 15 Sout h, Range 30 East, MDB&M). A site map is shown on
Attachment A of the Notice of Applicability (NOA ). According to the RWD, the WWTF
services campground stations, employee housing units, concessionaire facilities, a post
office, a recreational vehicle (RV) station, and Wuksachi Village within the Lodgepole
area of the Sequoia -Kings Canyon National Parks.
The WWTF flow schematic is show on Attachment B of the NOA. The WWTF co nsists
a 5,000 -gallon concrete storage tank septage receiving station, a headworks (including
a manual bar screen and grinder) , influent flow meter, two aerated equalization basins,
four aeration basins, four rectangular secondary clarifiers, chlorine cont act basin s,
effluent flow meter, and two effluent storage tanks (storage capacity of 10,000 gal lons
and 250,000 gal lons). Treated effluent is discharged from the effluent storage tanks (via
gravity flow) to either the l each fields during the winter (design capacity of 82,000 gpd)
or the spray fields during the summer (disposal capacity of 170,000 gpd). For biosolids
storage a nd treatment, the Facility has five aerobic digesters, four outdoor concrete
lined sludge drying beds, and two indoor vacuum -assisted sludge d rying beds .
Soda ash is added at the aerated equalization basins for pH adjus tment. Currently, only
two aeration b asins are operational while the other two aeration basins function as
overflow for the equalization basins. A polymer is added at the aeration basins. Two of
the four clarifiers are currently operational. Also, only a erobic digesters 4 and 5 are
currently operational while aerobic digesters 1, 2, and 3 have not been in service for
years. The indoor vacuum -assisted sludge drying beds are also currently not in use.
According to the RWD, t he WWTF is designed for a rehabili tation project to be
constructed in f all of 202 1. The rehabilitation project will include converting the current
coarse bubble aeration to fine bubble aeration as well as rehabilitation of the sludge
handling practices . After the rehabilitation, the WWTF w ill treat a peak capacity of
95,000 gpd . The General Order states that domestic wastewater treatment systems
discharging under 100,000 gpd are eligible for coverage.
Waste Discharge Requirements 88 -031 includes the following condi tions and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

