EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTP is located at 2000 Camanche Road, Ione, in Amador County in Section 35,
T5N, R9E, MDB&M as shown on attachme nt A, which is incorporated herein.
The Assessor’s Parcel Numbers (APN) is 003-460-004. The WWTP provides
wastewater treatment and disposal for 535-acre recreation area (Recreation Area) on the north shore of Camanche Reservoir in Amador County. The Recreation Area and the WWTP are owned and operated by the Discharger.
The Recreation Area has an administration of fice, cafe, full-service marina with fish-
cleaning station, four triplex and six duplex cottages, two mobile home parks (total of
159 units), and a six-unit capacity recreatio nal vehicle (RV) park with a holding tank
dump station. There are also 203 campsites equipped with portable toilets, showers, and laundry facilities. In addition, there is a maintenance shop that is used by EBMUD staff for routine maintenance and repair work. The Recreation Area is open to the public year-round. Peak usage is in the summer.
The source of the potable wat er is groundwater. There are three supply wells; two are
routinely used and the third serves as a back-up unit. Raw water is treated with sodium hypochlorite, followed by pressure injecti on through a pyroluslite media system. The
potable water has high levels of naturally-occurring manganese. Based on five sets of
annual data collected from 2015 through 2019, the raw potable water has an average
manganese concentration of 161 ug/L, which exceeds the secondary Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) of 50 ug/L for ma nganese. The treated water has an average
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) concentration of 255 mg/L based on data collected annually from 2015 through 2019.
The WWTP consists of a collection system equipped with five lift stations, six ponds,
and five acres of Land application Areas (L AAs). The ponds are located about three
quarters of a mile from Camanche Reservoir. The site plan is shown on Attachments B, which is incorporated herein. All ponds are unlined except for Pond 5, which is clay
lined. Ponds 1 through 3 are aerated treatmen t ponds with a total storage capacity of
4.9 acre-feet based on two feet of free boar d. Pond 6 is an effluent storage pond. Ponds
4 and 5 serve as backup ponds when extra storage is needed in the wet season. The
total capacity of Ponds 4, 5 and 6 is 19.5 acre -feet based on two feet of free board. The
six ponds have a total area of five and half acres. The depths of Ponds 1 through 5 rang
from six to eight feet and Pond 6 has a depth of four feet.
Chandra Johannesson - 3 - 12 June 2020
East Bay Municipal Utility District


Treated wastewater from Pond 3 is pumped into the effluent storage Pond 6 and then is applied to the LAAs for disposal via sprink le systems. A tailwater-return system was
installed around the LAAs in order to return ir rigation runoff to Pond 6 by gravity. Both
influent and effluent are measured by flow meters. The process schematic is shown on
Attachment C, which is incorporated herein. The WWTP is connected to the
Discharger’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system for operation monitoring.
The influent wastewater is pumped directly from Lift Station No. 1 to Pond 1 with no
upstream screening or solids removal. The settled solids in the lift stations are pumped
out on a quarterly basis and handled appropriately by a licensed contractor. Solids are
hauled to Sierra Septic located in the City of Sutter Creek where the liquid and solids
are separated. Wastewater generated from solid separation at Sierra Septic is hauled to
Sutter Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant (regulated under WDRs 94-152) and the solids are taken to Forward Landfill in French Camp. Settled solids in the ponds are removed as needed. In 2007, solids were removed from Ponds. 1, 2, 3, and 6 and
disposed of at a licensed landfill.
The 2014-2019 five-year monthly average flow rates during the peak summer season
ranged from 0.018 MGD in July to 0.013 MGD in September. For the nonpeak season,
including wet weather, the January flow ra tes ranged from 0.012 MGD in November to
0.016 MGD. The RWD states that the WWTP d oes not experience significant inflow and
infiltration due to improvements and repairs that have been completed by the Discharger.
WDRs Order 95-175 contains a flow limit of 0.1 MGD as a monthly average weather
discharge flow. The Discharger states that fl ow rates are much less than the permitted
flow rate. Based on a water balance submit ted in the RWD amendment, the Discharger
requested to reduce the flow limit to 0.032 MGD. Therefore, this NOA contains a flow limit
of 0.032 MGD as an influent average dry weather flow.
Based on the data collected from January 2014 through December 2019, the influent
had an average BOD
5of 181 mg/L. Effluent quality is summarized below.
Constitute 2014-2019 Effluent Average
Concentration (mg/L)
BOD 5 16
TDS 687
Nitrate as Nitrogen 0.27
Although the Recreation Area has a RV park, the capacity is only six units and the RV
waste stream is minimal compared to domestic wastewater from the use of core facilities,
including the mobile home parks. Historical analytical data show that formaldehyde and
phenols were below the respective detection li mits. Zinc was detected at low levels.
Chandra Johannesson - 4 - 12 June 2020
East Bay Municipal Utility District


GROUNDWATER CONCERNS
Monitoring wells MW-1 through MW-9 were installed in October 2003 as showed on
Attachment B. Groundwater data was collected quarterly from October 2003 through November 2011. After a revised MRP was issued on 8 November 2011, groundwater has since been monitored semi-annually. Based on data collected from October 2003 through December 2019, groundwater is shallow, with water depths ranged from 4 to 26 feet below ground surface. The general hori zontal groundwater flow directions are
southwest to southeast, however it is to th e north near Pond 6. Based on historical
groundwater elevation data, monitoring we lls MW-2 and MW-3 are up-gradient wells
and the rest of seven wells are down-gradien t wells. Since July 2014, monitoring well
MW-3 has been dry occasionally or groundwat er levels in the well were too low to
obtain representative groundwater quality samples. The Discharger has planned to
install a deeper well to replace MW-3. In January 2015, down-gradient monitoring well MW-5 was reported to be filled with roots. EBMUD staff also reported that this well similarly had roots in it several years ago. Although the roots had been cleared in early 2016, roots were again found in the well in the second semi-annual 2018 and first semi-annual 2019 events. Given the history of root s in the well and concerns about recent
water quality results, the Discharger plan s to install a potential replacement well for
MW-5.
The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

