wastewater treatment and disposal systems and subcontracts the
operation of the wastewater treatment facility at the Episcopal Conference Center Oakhurst that
is subject to the Notice of A pplicability (NOA) of Water Quality Order 20 14-0153- DWQ -R5282.
The reports are necessary to ensure that the Discharger complies with the NOA and General
Order . Pursuant to Water Code section 13267, the Discharger shall implement this MRP and
shall submit the monitoring reports described herein.


MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5282 2
EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE CENTER OAKHURST WWTF
MADERA COUNTY


All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled . The name of the sampler, sample type (grab or composite), time, date,
location, bottle type, and any preservative used for each sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form . The chain of custody form must also contain all custody
information including date, time, and to whom samples were relinquished. If composite samples
are collected, the basis for sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by Central Valley
Water Board staff.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that they are used by a State Water Resources Control
Board, Environmental Laboratory Accredita tion Program (ELAP) certified laboratory, or :

1. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are maintained and available for at least three years .

If monitoring consistently shows no significant variation in magnitude of a constituent
concentration or parameter after at least 12 months of monitoring, the Discharger may request
this MRP be revised to reduce monitoring frequency. The proposal must include adequate
technical justification for reduction in monitoring frequency.

SEPTIC TANK MONITORING

Septic tanks shall be inspected and/or pumped at least as frequently as described below.
Inspections of sludge and scum depth are not required if the tanks are pumped at least
annually.

Parameter Units Measurement
Type Inspection/Reporting
Frequency
Sludge depth and scum thickness in
each compartment of each tank Feet Staff Gauge Annually
Distance between bottom of scum
layer and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Distance between top of sludge layer
and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Effluent filter condition
(if equipped, clean as needed) NA1 NA1 Annually
1. NA = not applicable
Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exists:
1. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one- third of the tank depth of the
first compartment.
2. The scum layer is within 3 inches of the outlet device.
3. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5282 3
EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE CENTER OAKHURST WWTF
MADERA COUNTY


If a septic tank is pumped during the year, the pumping report shall be submitted with the
annual report. All pumping reports shall be submitted with the next regularly scheduled
monitoring report. At a minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of service, service
company name, and service company license number.
POND SYSTEM MONITORING
Influent Monitoring
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of the
wastewater and flow rate. At a minimum, influent monitoring shall consist of the following:

Constituent Units1 Sample Type Sample Frequency Reporting Frequency
Flow Rate2 gpd Meter Continuous Quarterly
1. gpd = gallons per day .
2. At a minimum, the total flow shall be measured monthly to calculate the average daily flow for the month
Wastewater Pond Monitoring
All wastewater and treated wastewater storage ponds (lined and unlined) shall be monitored as
specified below:

Constituent Units1 Sample Type Sample Frequency Reporting Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Monthly Quarterly
Odors -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Berm condition -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
 1. mg/L = milligrams per liter.
Effluent Monitoring
Effluent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of the
wastewater after treatment in the aeration basins, but prior to discharge into the effluent
retention ponds . At a minimum, effluent monitoring shall consist of the following:

Constituent Units1 Sample
Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow Rate gpd Meter Continuous Quarterly
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm Grab Monthly Quarterly
pH s.u. Grab Monthly Quarterly
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Suspended Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
1. gpd = gallons per day. umhos/cm = micromhos per centimeter . s.u. = standard pH units. mg/L = milligrams per liter.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5282 4
EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE CENTER OAKHURST WWTF
MADERA COUNTY


LAND APPLICATION AREA MONITORING
The Discharger shall monitor land application areas when wastewater and/or supplemental
irrigation water is applied. If wastewater/supplemental irrigation water is not applied during a
reporting period, the monitoring report shall state so. Land application area (spray field)
monitoring shall include the following:

Constituent Units1 Sample Type Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Wastewater Flow2 gpd Meter 2 Monthly Quarterly
Application Rate gal/acre/mo Calculated Monthly Quarterly
Soil Erosion Evidence -- observation Monthly Quarterly
Containment Berm Condition -- observation Monthly Quarterly
Soil Saturation/Ponding -- observation Monthly Quarterly
Nuisance Odors/Vectors -- observation Monthly Quarterly
Discharge Off -Site -- observation Monthly Quarterly
1. gpd = gallons per day. Gal/acre/mo = gallons per acre per month.
2. Meter requires meter reading, a pump run time meter, or other approved method.
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids ( e.g., screenings, grit, sludge,
biosolids, etc .) generated at the wastewater system . Records shall include the name/contact
information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported, the date
removed from the wastewater system , the disposal facility name and address, and copies of
analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be submitted as
part of the a nnual monitoring report .

REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type ( e.g., effluent, solids , etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection result s
are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance with the
General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any moni toring done more frequently
than required at the locations specified in the M RP shall be reported in the next regularly
scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperles s Office System. All regulatory
documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be
converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically.
Documents that are less than 50MB should be e mailed to:
centralvalleyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov.

Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and mailed to the
appropriate Regional Water Board office, in this case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706. To
ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following in formation block
should be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office: Program: Non -15,
WDID: 5C 201011001, Facility Name: The Protestant Episcopal Bishop of San Joaquin,
Episcopal Conference Center Oakhurst WWTF , Order -2014 -0153- DWQ -R5282.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5282 5
EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE CENTER OAKHURST WWTF
MADERA COUNTY


A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board on the first day of the
second month after the quarter ends ( e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is due by
May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s authorized
representative. At a minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:

1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, biochemical oxygen
demand