DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The SCE Big Creek Powerhouse No.1 Domestic WWTF is currently regulated by
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order R5-2012-0048 (NPDES Order
CA0079545). The WDRs allow for a daily maximum discharge of 23,000 gallons per
day (gpd) and the WWTF has a design capacity of 60,000 gpd. The average daily flow
KARL E. LONGLEY ScD, P.E., CHAIR I PAMELA C. CREEDON P.E .. BCEE, EXECUTIVE OFFICER
1685 E Street, Fresno. CA 93706 I www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralvalley
~.-1t RECYCL.EO PAPER
Lonnie M. Wass
Clay Rodgers -2 - 6 July 2015
of tertiary treated wastewater from the VWVTF is 9,280 gpd. The WWTF serves
approximately 180 Big Creek residents as well as a cookhouse, several smaller offices,
and a guest lodge. .
SCE is proposing to replace the NPDES regulated discharge into Big Creek with a land
discharge that includes a combination effluent subsurface dispersal system (Ieachfield)
and land application (spray fields) system. The WWTF itself will remain basically
unchanged (chlorination system to be added for future spray field usage), but the
method of disposal will change. The use of the spray fields requires the preparation
and submittal of a Title 22 Engineering Report that must be approved by State Water
Board Division of Drinking Water staff as well as Central Valley Water Board staff before
the spray fields can be put into use. This General Order contains language that restricts
the disposal of effluent to the leachfields until the Title 22 Report has been approved by
the State Water Board Division of Drinking Water and the Central Valley Water Board.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The WWTF is a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) that produces tertiary treated effluent.
The treatment system consists of a rotating brush screen to remove solids from the
influent, a grit chamber, an anoxic chamber, an aerobic chamber, and a membrane
filtration chamber. Aluminum sulfate is injected into the anoxic chamber for coagulation
and caustic soda is injected into the aerobic zone for pH contro\. The effluent is
disinfected using ultra violet light and then discharged to a 6,000-galion equalization
tank. As wastewater leaves the disinfection system it will be continuously monitored for
turbidity, pH, electrical conductivity (EC), and temperature. Solids collected by the
brush screen and 'grit chamber are placed into a dumpster and disposed of offsite. A
lined-52,000 gallon concrete overflow pond is adjacent to the WWTF in case of a
treatment system failure or for use during system maintenance. Following the
equalization tank, tertiary treated wastewater will be discharged to the leachfield.
Effluent use for the proposed spray field will be chlorinated in addition to disinfection
with ultra violet light.
The proposed disposal systems (leach field and spray fields) will be northeast of the
WWTF. The leachfield will be a pressure distribution system consisting of six cells with
a total design capacity of 55,000 gpd. There are no groundwater wells in the immediate
vicinity of the WWTF and the nearest surface water body, Big Creek, is approximately
300 feet south of the WWTF. A small reservoir is present at the powerhouse and is
about 225 feet from the nearest leachfield. These setbacks meet the requirements for
treatment systems or leach fields from Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System
Setbacks of the General Order. The depth to groundwater in the vicinity of the
proposed treatment system is unknown due to the hard rock geology. With an average
flow rate of 9,280 gpd and in accordance with the requirements of the General Order,
discharges with flow rates that average less than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a
nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

