for domestic purposes, it is reasonably assumed that most water used goes through to
the wastewater system.
The WWTF has a design capacity of 5,190 gallons per day (gpd) and consists of two
1,500 -gallon septic tan ks, an aerated oxidation pond, a settling pond, and a leach field
disposal system. All treatment operations, with the exception of a small emergency
leach field, a re located on the school property as shown in the site plan on Attachment
B, which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. The small
emergency leach field area is located across Duggans Road , to the west and down -
gradient from the school.
Wastewater flows by gravity from the various school buildings to the septic tank s, which
are located side by side . Septic tank sludge depth is measured annually. Each tank is
pumped out as needed, generally every two or three years.
From the septic tank s, wastewater flows by gravity to an aerated oxidation pond and
then to a settling pond. A floating aerator operates on a timer to provide aeration in the
oxidation pond. From the oxidation pond wastewater flows to the settling pond. Pond
levels are controlled by manually operated telescoping valves. Both the aeration pond
and settling pond have base area s of approximately 63 feet (ft) by 24 ft, with 3:1 sloped
sides. Each pond has a capacity of approximately 152,000 gallons (approximately one
acre foot) while maintaining 2 ft of freeboard. Sludge removal from the ponds is very
infrequent.
Pleasant Ridge Union School District -3 - 30 December 2021
Pleasant Ridge Elementary School WWTF
The primary leach field is approximately 20,000 square ft, and consists of five leach
lines of 300 ft each (1,500 ft total) with a distribution header . Leach lines are on a 10 ft
spacing and include a series of connecting lines to distribute the flow. There is a
standpipe at the end of each line for inspection. Leach line t renches are 2 ft wide with
1½-inch crushed rock set a minimum of 12 inches below t he perforated leach line. The
primary leach field’s design capacity is 2,580 gpd. In addition to the main leach field,
there is an emergency leach field across Duggans Road (design capacity of 2,150 gpd) ,
and an older , typically unused, leach field above the main leach ; both of which are
connected to the system and available as backup. There are also undeveloped areas
on the school property adjacent to the primary leach field which could be used as repair
area(s) if necessary.
Under current operating and drought conditions , with flow rates well below the design
capacity of the WWTF , the evaporation occurring in the two ponds is sufficient for
disposal of wastewater, and it has not been necessary to utilize the leach field system
for the past few years .
Drainage channels on site convey storm water to a county-maintained roadside ditch
along Duggans Road where it is conveyed off site. There is no groundwater monitoring
at this site because the depth to groundwater is estimated to be more than 140 feet
below ground surface (ft bgs) and the discharge does not pose a threat to groundwater .
The depth to groundwater is based on the facility’s existing domestic drinking water
well, shown on Attachment B, which was drilled to 200 ft bgs and is screened from 140
to 200 ft bgs.
SITE -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND

===PLANNED CHANGES===

