wastewater treatment and disposal system is currently regulated under the
individual Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) Order 97-230. The WDR was adopted on
24 October 199 7 and is due for an update.




Chris Copeland - 2 - 25 May 2017
Casa Del Rey HOA

FACILITY AND DESCRIPTION

Casa Del Rey HOA owns and operates a waste water treatment and disposal Facility which
serves a planned development of approximately 56 condominium type units. The Facility is
located in central Butte County in Section 31, T22N, R 4E, and Section 6, T21N, R4E, MDB&M
with surface water drainage to Dry Creek, an indirect tributary of the Sacramento River, as
shown on Attachment A. Casa Del Rey HOA has been established as the entity responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment and disposal system for the Facility .
The community system consists of septic tanks, both gravity, and pressurized collection lines,
pump stations , three effluent dosing tank s, and discharges about 4,500 gpd to a community
leachfie ld.
This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 14, section 15301 which applies to ongoing or exi sting projects.

FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the
terms and conditions of this NOA and the General Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234, with all
attachments.

The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the Discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements from Table 3, for which the
Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic
Well Flowing
Stream a Ephemeral
Stream
Drainage b Property
Line Lake or
Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit,
Treatment System,
or Collection System
150 ft. y
50 ft. C
50 ft.
5 ft. c, z
200 ft. w
Leach Field f
 100 ft. o, c 100 ft. c 50 ft. 5 ft. c 200 ft. w
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water
elevation and indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character, vegetation type,
presence of litter or debris, or other appropri ate means.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow -melt
and does not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface
water. The drainage shall be meas ured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark
(described in “a” above). Irrigation canals are not considered ephemeral streams drainage features. The
ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging surface water to ground water) at the proposed
wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K -1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment located
below ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
f Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
o California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Sit e-specific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an
increased setback. See discussion in Well Standards.
w Setback established by the Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.5.
Chris Copeland - 3 - 25 May 2017
Casa Del Rey HOA

y Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.6.
z Collection system to property line setback is not applicable .

Failure to comply with the requirements in the documents could result in an enforcement action
as authorized by provision s of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than
those descri bed in this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that
described in this NOA, you must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new
operation.

The required annual fee spec ified in the annual billing from the State Water Board shall be paid
until thi s NOA is officially terminated. You must notify this office in writing if the discharge
regulated by the General Order ceases, so that we may terminate coverage and avoid
unneces sary billing.

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory
documents, MRPs, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence
should be converted to a searchable Portable Docu ment Format (PDF) an d submitted
electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov .

Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a dis c and mailed to the
appropriate regional water board office, in this case 364 Knollcres t Drive, Suite 205, Redding,
CA 96002.

To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following information block
should be included in any e mail used to transmit documents to this office:
Program: Non -15 WDID: 5A041020 001
Facility Name: Casa Del Rey HOA Order: 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234
Please note that WDRs Order No. 97-230 is proposed to be rescinded at the 10/11 August
2017 meeting of the Central Valley Water Board. Upon rescission of your individual WDRs,
coverage for your facility under the General Order shall become applicable subject to this Notice
of Applicability.

If you have any questions regarding submitting an updated report o f waste discharge, making
changes to your permitted operations, compliance or enforcement please contact Ron S.
Falkowski at (530) 224-3227 , rsfalkowski@waterboards.ca.gov , or the footer address.


Original signed by Bryan J. Smith

 (for) PAMELA C. CREEDON
Executive Officer

RSF: ab
Attachments: Attachment A – Site Location Map
 Attachment B – Facility Map
 Technical Memorandum
 Monitoring and Reporting Program
 Water Quality Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ

Chris Copeland - 4 - 25 May 2017
Casa Del Rey HOA

cc (w/o enc.): Patrice Sorenson , Hydrotech Solutions, Chico
Tim O’Brien , State Water Board, Sacramento
 Butte County Environmental Health Department, Chico
 Patrick Pulupa, SWRCB, Office of Chief Counsel, Sacramento
ORDER WQ-2014-0153 -DWQ
CASA DEL REY HOA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT A - LOCATION MAP

 PROJECT LOCATION N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 LOCATION MAP

CASA DEL REY HOA
WAS TEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY

ORDER WQ 2014 -0153 -DWQ
CASA DEL REY HOA
WAS TEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT B – FACILITY MAP
 N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 FACILITY MAP

CASA DEL REY HOA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
 Dosing
Tank s MW-1 MW-4
MW-2
MW-3
MW-5
MW-6
MW-4
MW-6 MW-2
MW-5 MW-3 MW-1
Dosing
Tanks N



 TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

TO: George Low, PG FROM: Ron Falkowski
 Senior Engineering Geologist Engineer ing Geologist


DATE: 25 May 2017 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski


SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR CASA DEL REY HOA ,
GENERAL ORDER WQ 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234 , BUTTE COUNTY

 I have reviewed the case file for Casa Del Rey wastewater treatment and disposal facility
(WWTF) and completed a site inspection on 11 May 2017. The file documents and site
inspection confirms the general condition of the wastewater treatment and subsurface
disposal system . The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance documentation and all
treatment a nd collection infrastructure appears in good order.

 The average daily wastewater flow is less than 4,500 gallons per day .

Potential Threats to Water Quality

The Casa Del Rey WWTF is located just west of the Pentz Road, on the west side of Lake
Oroville , Butte County . The closest distance from the leachfield to the nearest property line
is greater than 5 feet. The closest potable water well is greater th an 150 feet. The closest
surface water is greater than 500 feet from leachfield . A monitoring well network was
instal led at the site due to seasonally high groundwater and poor soil conditions . Completion
of the Nitrate Checklist in Attachment 1 of Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ indicates the following
flow and rationale:

A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewa ter flow generally less than 4,500 gpd.

Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.

Monitoring Requirements

 To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, quarterly groundwater monitoring of well MW -1 through MW-6 and
annual inspections of the septic tank. Quarterly monitoring will be reported by the first day of
the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. January -March report is due by May 1st).
Annual monitoring will be included with the fourth quarter monitor ing.
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTRO L BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGIO N

MONITORING A ND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234

FOR

CASA DEL REY HOME OW NERS ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL FACILITY
 BUTTE COUNTY


This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater treatment system. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code section 13267. The
Discharger shall not implement any cha nges to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is
issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional Water Board) Executive Officer.

The State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) and Regional Water Boards
are transitioning to the paperless office system. In some regions, Dischargers will be directed
to submit reports (both technical and monitoring reports) to the State Wat er Board’s Electronic
Content Management (ECM) database via email in portable document format (pdf). The email
address for the ECM submittal is: centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov

Water Code section 13267 states, in part:

“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require
that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or
discharging, or who proposes to disch arge waste within its region, or any citizen or
domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge, waste
outside of its region that cou ld affect the quality of waters within its region shall furnish,
under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional board
requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship
to the need for the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring
those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with
regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring
that person to provide the reports.”

Water Code section 13268 states, in part:

“(a) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports as
required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to fu rnish a statement of
compliance as required by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying any information
provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in accordance with
subdivision (b).

(b)(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a regional board in accordance with
article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of chapter 5 for a violation of subdivision (a) in

MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234 2
CASA DEL REY , BUTTE COUNTY



 an amount which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) fo r each day in which the
violation occurs.”

The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater system that is subject to the Notice of
Applicability (NOA) of Water Quality Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ. The reports are necessary to
ensure that the Discharger complies w ith the NOA and General Order. Pursuant to Water
Code section 13267, the Discharger shall implement this MRP and shall submit the monitoring
reports described herein.

All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled. The name of the sampler, sample type (grab or composite), time, date,
location, bottle type, and any preservative used for each sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form. The chain of custody form must also contain all custody
information including date, time, and to whom samples were relinquished. If composite
samples are collected, the basis for sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by
Regional Water Board staff.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that they are used by a State Water Board California
Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program certified laboratory, or:

1. The user is trained in proper use and m aintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are maintained and available for at least three years.


SEPTIC TANK MONITORING

Monitoring of septic tank shall include the following:

Parameter Units Sample
Type Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow Rate gpd Metered a Continuous Annually
gpd denotes gallons per day.
a. Flow rate may be metered or estimated based on potable water supply meter readings or other approved
method.

Septic tanks shall be inspected and/or pumped at least as frequently as described below.
Inspections of sludge and scum depth are not required if the tanks are pumped at least annually.

Parameter Units Measurement
Type Inspection/Reporting
Frequency
Sludge depth and scum thickness
in each compartment of each tank Feet Staff Gauge Annually
Distance between bottom of scum
layer and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234 3
CASA DEL REY , BUTTE COUNTY



 Distance between top of sludge
layer and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Effluent filter condition
(if equipped, clean as needed) NA NA Annually
NA denotes not applicable.

Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exists:
 1. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one -third of the tank depth of the
 first compartment.
 2. The scum layer is within 3 inches of the outlet device.
 3. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.

If a septic tank is pumped during the year, the pumping report shall be submitted with the annual
report. All pumping reports shall be submitted with the next regularly scheduled monitoring report.
At a minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of service, service company name, and
service company license number.

SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL AREA

Subsurface disp osal areas may be configured many different ways (e.g. traditional leach field,
pressure -dosed, drip system, mound/at grade, gravel less, etc.). In general, monitoring shall be
sufficient to determine if wastewater is evenly applied, the disposal area is n ot saturated, burrowing
animals and/or deep rooted plants are not present, and odors are not present. Inspection of dosing
pump controllers, automatic distribution valves, etc. is required to maintain optimum treatment in
the disposal area (and any sand or media filter if present). Monitoring shall include, at a minimum,
the following:

Constituent Inspection Frequency Reporting Frequency
Pump Controllers, Automatic Valves, etc. a Quarterly Quarterly
Nuisance Odor Condition Quarterly Quarterly
Saturated Soil Conditions b Quarterly Quarterly
Plant Growth c Quarterly Quarterly
Vectors or Animal Burrowing d Quarterly Quarterly
Seepage Pit Condition e Quarterly Quarterly
a. All pump controllers and automatic distribution valves shall be inspected for proper operation as
recommended by the manufacturer.
b. Inspect a disposal area for saturated conditions. If a mound system is used, inspect perimeter base for signs
of wastewa ter seepage or saturated soil conditions.
c. Shallow -rooted plants are generally desirable, deep -rooted plants such as trees shall be removed as
necessary.
d. Evidence of animals burrowing shall be immediately investigated and burrowing animal populations controlled
as necessary.
e. Seepage pits shall be inspected to ensure they are allowing wastewater to infiltrate as designed. Visual
inspection of the water level in the seepage pit is adequate.

SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING

The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids , etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the
name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported,
MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234 4
CASA DEL REY , BUTTE COUNTY



 the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name and address, and
copie s of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be
submitted as part of the annual monitoring report.

GROUNDWATER MONITORING

Groundwater monitoring data from the current monitoring network of wells MW -1 through MW -6
shall be submitted quarterly. Analysis of the data and groundwater flow directions shall be
performed at least annually and shall be performed under the supervision of a California licensed
professional (as described above). The Discharger may request a red uced monitoring and
reporting schedule once adequate data has been collected to characterize the site. (Typically two
years of quarterly sampling is required for adequate characterization.)

The Discharger shall monitor groundwater quality as is consistent with the Business and
Professions Code, groundwater monitoring reports, well construction workplans, etc. shall be
prepared under the supervision of a California licensed civil engineer or geologist. Prior to
construction of any new groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and
specifications to the Regional Water Board’s staff for review and approval. Once installed, all
monitoring wells designated as part of the monitoring network shall be sampled and analyzed
according to the sched ule below.

Prior to sampling, groundwater elevations shall be measured and the wells shall be purged of at
least three well volumes and until pH and electrical conductivity have stabilized. No -purge, low -
flow, or other sampling techniques are acceptable if they are described in an approved Sampling
and Analysis Plan. Depth to groundwater shall be measured to the nearest 0.01 feet. Groundwater
elevations shall be calculated. Samples shall be collected using approved USEPA methods.
Groundwater monitoring sh all include, at a minimum, the following:


Constituent Units Sample
Type Sampling/Reporting
Frequency c,d
Groundwater Elevation a 0.01 Feet Calculated Quarterly
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly
Gradient Feet/Feet Calculated Quarterly
Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly
pH Std. Units Grab Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Sodium mg/L Grab Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms b MPN/100 mL Grab Quarterly
MPN/100 mL denotes most probable number per 100 mL sample. Std. Units denotes standard units. mg/L
denotes milligrams per liter.
a. Groundwater elevation shall be based on depth to water using a surveyed measuring point elevation on the
well and a surveyed reference elevation.
b. Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions.
c. Monitoring of the constituents zinc, phenol, and for maldehyde are required only when recreational vehicles
were allowed to discharge to the wastewater system in the previous 12 months.
d. Analysis of data by a California licensed professional is required at least annually,

MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5234 5
CASA DEL REY , BUTTE COUNTY




REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection
results are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance
with the General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more
frequently than required at the locations specified in the MRP shall be reported in the next
regularly scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.

During the life of this General Order, the State Water Board or Regional Water Board may
require the Discharger to electronically submit monitoring reports using the State Water
Board’s California Integrated W ater Quality System (CIWQS) program Internet web site or
alternative database. Electronic submittal procedures will be provided when directed to begin
electronic submittals. Until directed to electronically submit monitoring reports, the Discharger
shall s ubmit hard copy monitoring reports.

A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of the
second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is due by
May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s authorized
representative. At a minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:

1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specific ations, applicable