wastewater treatment and disposal ponds (lined and unlined) shall be monitored as
specified below:
 Table 3. Wastewater Pond Monitoring
Constituent Units Sample
Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen
(see 1 below) mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Freeboard feet Observation Monthly Quarterly
Sierra Unified School District 4 3 July 2020
Foothill Elementary School
2014- 0153- DWQ -R5337
 Constituent Units Sample
Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Odors -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Berm Condition -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Liner Condition
(see 2 below) -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
1. DO shall be measured between 8:00 am and 10:00 am and shall be taken opposite the
pond inlet at a depth of approximately one foot. Should the DO be below 1.0 mg/L during
a month ly sampling event, the Discharger shall take all reasonable steps to correct the
problem and commence daily DO monitoring in the affected ponds until the problem has
been resolved.
2. The Discharger shall observe the condition of the lined ponds and check the liner for
evidence of rips, tears, and/or leaks on a monthly basis. In addition, the Discharger shall
conduct integrity testing of the pond liners once every five years beginning in 2021 and
include the results of the integrity testing in the Annual report. Integrity testing shall
include an electrical leak survey of the l iner or other method that has been approved by
the Executive Officer.
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e. g., screenings,
grit, sludge, biosolids, etc. ) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include
the name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste
transported, the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility names
and address, and copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste.
These records shall be submitted as part of the annual monitoring report
REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date, sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection results are readily discernable. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance with the General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done m ore frequently than required at the locations specified in the MRP
shall be reported in the next regularly scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.
All regulatory documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than 50 MB should be emailed to: centralvalleyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov
. Documents that are 50 MB or larger should
be transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate Regional Water Board office, in this case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706. To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropr iate staff, the following information block should be included in any email
used to transmit documents to this office:
Sierra Unified School District 5 3 July 2020
Foothill Elementary School
2014- 0153- DWQ -R5337
 Program: Non-15,
Place ID : 224827,
Facility Name: Foothill Elementary School WWTF,
Order: 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5337
A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of the
second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is due
by May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s
authorized representative. At a minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:
1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the requirements (including t he flow
limitation), disclosure of any violations of the NOA and/or General Order, and an explanation of any violation of those requirements. Data shall be presented in tabular format.
3. Copies of all laboratory analytical report(s) and chain of custody form (s).
B. Annual Report
Annual Reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board by March 1st
following the monitoring year. The Annual Report shall include the following:
1. Tabular and graphical summaries of all monitoring data collected during the year.
2. An evaluation of the performance of the wastewater treatment system, including
discussion of the capacity issues nuisances’ conditions, system problems and a forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year. A flow rate evaluation, as described in the General Order (Provision E.2.c), shall also be submitted.
3. Results of the electrical leak survey and liner integrity testing as required .
4. A discussion of compliance and the corrective actions taken, as well as any planned or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into compliance with
the NOA and/or General Order.
5. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring system or reporting program.
6. The name and contact information for the wastewater operator respons ible for
operation, maintenance, and system monitoring
C. State Water Board Volumetric Annual Reporting
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy

(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/), amended in December 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water
are required to report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced, and ef fluent, including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall
Sierra Unified School District 6 3 July 2020
Foothill Elementary School
2014- 0153- DWQ -R5337
 submit an annual report to the State Water Board by April 30 th of each calendar
year furnished with the information detailed below. The Discharger must submit this
annual report containing monthly data in electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet GeoTracker system ( https://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/
).
Required data shall be submitted to the GeoTracker database under a site- specific
global identification number. Any data will be made publicly accessible as machine readable datasets. The Discharger must report all applicable items listed below:
1. Influent . Monthly volume of wastewater collected and treated by the wastewater
treatment plant.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of treatment.
3. Discharge . Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to land, where
beneficial use is not taking place, including evaporation or percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding pasture of fields with harvested grounds.
4. Reuse. Monthly volume of recycled wat er distributed.
5. Reuse Categories. Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for beneficial use in compliance with California Code of Regulations, title 22 in each of the use categories listed below:
a. Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
b. Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and playgrounds; school yards; athletic fields; cemeteries; residential landscaping, common areas; commercial landscaping; industrial landscaping; and freeway, highway, and street landscapi ng.
c. Golf course irrigation: irrigation of golf courses, including water used to maintain aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
d. Commercial application: commercial facilities, business use (such as laundries and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
e. Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, process water, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
f. Geothermal energy production: augment ation of geothermal fields.
g. Other non- potable uses including but not limited to dust control, flushing
sewers, fire protection, fill stations, snow making, and recreational impoundments.
h. Groundwater recharge: the planned use of recycled water for replenishment of a groundwater basin or an aquifer that has been designated as a source of water supply for a public water system. Includes surface or subsurface application, except for seawater intrusion barrier use.


 GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least
eight aliquots over a 24- hour period.
Daily Every day except weekends or holidays.
Twice Weekly Twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Once per week.
Twice Monthly Twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Once per calendar month.
Quarterly Once per calendar quarter.
Semiannually Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) dur ing
non-consecutive quarters.
Annually Once per year.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
NA Denotes not applicable

Scott J. Hatton 2 3 July 2020
Foothill Elementary School
 119° 31’ 28” W ). The Facility is currently regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) Order 94- 107, which authorizes a discharge of up to 33,000 gallons per day
(gpd) to lined ponds and a spray field.
The Foothill Elementary School has a non- transient non- community w ater system
permit with the State Water Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water
(System No. CA1000476) . The Foothill Elementary School drinking water system
consists of four groundwater supply hard rock wells (majority of domestic water supplied
by Well No. 1). However, one well has been disconnected due to high uranium
concentrations.
Originally, the Facility was designed to treat domestic wastewater from Foothill
Elem entary School and from an adjacent residential development of approximately
2,000 homes. Maximum daily and average daily discharge flows of 39,325 and
31,500 gpd were anticipated, and, consequently, a 9.4 -acre spray field was proposed to
be added for disposal. However, the residential development was never constructed .
Therefore, the proposed spray field was never added.
The March 2020 RWD included water balances demonstrating that the current Facility
has disposal capacity for an average flow of 15,000 gpd and requested the flow limit be
reduced to 15,000 gpd . The Facility currently serves approximately 600 students and
80 staff members. Wastewater flows to the Facility are currently estimated based on
domestic water use. According to the March 2020 RWD, average flows are estimated at
about 5,000 gpd.
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The Facility consists of headworks, a lined facultative pond, a chlorine contact chamber,
and two lined evaporation/storage ponds ( referred to as Overflow Basin and
Evaporation Po nd). The reported volumes of the F acultative Pond, Overflow Basin, and
Evaporation Pond are 7.32 acre- feet, 1.55 acre -feet, and 29.69 acre -feet, respectively.
All three ponds are lined with 80 -mil high density polyethylene ( HDPE ) geomembrane
liner, which was installed in 1993. The headworks receives wastewater from the gravity
sewer collection system and consists of an in -line grinder (comminutor) with a bypass
equipped with a manually cleaned bar screen. Screened wastewater flows into the facultative treatment pond, which is st ratified to provide aerobic and anerobic zones for
nitrification/denitrification. Treated effluent is pumped to the chlorine contact chamber
via the effluent pump station (equipped with two submersible pumps; one active, one
standby) located at the end of the facultative treatment pond.
The chlorine contact chamber was designed and built to disinfect effluent before discharge to the spray field. Since the WWTF never reached design flows and the spray field was never constructed, effluent flows through the chlorine contact chamber but is
not disinfected (i.e., no chlorine is injected). The O verflow Basin stores treated effluent
before entering the evaporation pond. According to the March 2020 RWD, at the current
flows , discharge to the evaporation pond generally only occurs during the winter. The
Facility also includes a stormwater runoff collection pond (with a storage capacity
Scott J. Hatton 3 3 July 2020
Foothill Elementary School
 volume of 13.97 acre- feet), which serves as emergency storage if both the E vaporation
Pond and Overflow Basin are filled.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
According to the March 2020 RWD, the WWTF is located within the foothills of eastern
Fresno County within the Auberry -Prather area. The Auberry -Prather area is dominated
by bedrock complex li ke the Sierra Nevada, which is primarily composed of
metamorphosed sedimentary and volcanic rocks that have intruded from below by
intrusive igneous (granitic) rocks. Soil is classified as sandy loam by the US Soil
Conservation Service and considered well drained with a depth of four feet below site
grade (bsg) . The soil is underlain by decomposed granite, which reaches a depth of up
to 37 feet bsg. Precipitation is the primary source of recharge to the groundwater
system . Groundwater is approximately 30 feet bsg and has a specific conductance of
approximately 350 µmhos/cm .
According to the RWD, the Discharger conducts daily routine inspections and
maintenance at the WWTF but does not sample the wastewater since all wastewater is
contained in lined ponds and not sent to the spray field as proposed in WDRs
Order 94- 107. As part of the RWD preparation, the Discharger collected influent and
effluent samples from the facultative pond on a weekly basis for three weeks. The samples were analyzed for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids
(TSS), and nitrogen. Based on the available data , influent BOD, TSS, and total nitrogen
ranged from 28 to 250 mg/L, 48 to 430 mg/L, and 47 to 58 mg/L, respectively. Effluent BOD, TSS, and total nitrogen ranged from 33 to 73 mg/L, 75 to 150 mg/L, and 9 to
11 mg/L, respectively.
In accordance with Attachment 1 of the General Order, w ith flows less than 20,000 gpd
a nitrogen effluent evaluation is not required. In addition, with treatment, storage, and
disposal in lined ponds the discharge does not pose a significant threat to groundwater quality. To maintain the integrity of the pond liners and protection of groundwater quality
the monitoring and reporting program shall require integrity testing of the pond liners at
least once every five years.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Att achment C of the
General Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Pond System Monitoring
• Solids Disposal Monitoring
SALT AND NITRATE CONTROL PROGRAMS
As part of the Central Valley Salinity Alternatives for Long- Term Sustainability (CV
SALTS) initiative, the Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments (Resolution R5- 2018- 0034) incorporating new programs for addressing ongoing salt
and nitrat e accumulation in the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018 Board Meeting. On
16 October 2019, the State Water Resources Control Board adopted Resolution No.
Scott J. Hatton 4 3 July 2020
Foothill Elementary School
 2019- 0057 approving the Central Valley Water Board Basin Plan amendments and
also directed the Central Valley Water Board to make targeted revisions to the Basin
Plan amendments within one year from the approval of the Basin Plan amendments
by the Office of Administrative Law. The Office of Administrative Law approved the Basin Plan amendments on 15 Januar y 2020 (OAL Matter No. 2019- 1203- 03).
Pursuant to the Basin Plan amendments, dischargers will receive a Notice to Comply with instructions and obligations for the Salt Control Program within one year of the effective date of the amendments. Upon receipt of the Notice to Comply, the District will have no more than six months to inform the Central Valley Water Board of their choice between Option 1 (Conservative Option for Salt Permitting) or Option 2 (Alternative Option for Salt Permitting). For the Nitrate Control Program, the WWTF falls outside a prioritized groundwater basin. The closest prioritized basin is
Groundwater Basin 5- 22.08 (San Joaquin Valley – Kings ). Implementation within a
non-prioritized basin/sub- basin will occur as directed by the Central Valley Water
Board Executive Officer. More information related to the Salt and Nitrate Control
Programs can be found at the CV-SALTS Website
 (https://www.cvsalinity.org/public -
info).