FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Residential and commercial wastewater is conveyed to the Facility , which was upgraded in
2006. The monthly average design treatment capacity is 1.9 MGD.
A single mechanical bar screen captures large debris from the r aw wastewater in the
headworks. From the headworks, the influent flows to a splitter box where it is divided
between two oxidation ditches. Each oxidation ditch has a capacity of 0.89 million gallons with
side water depths of 12 feet . Anoxic zones constitute approximately 12 percent of each
oxidation ditch, with mechanical aerators providing aeration to the remaining 88 percent. Effluent from the oxidation ditches passes through a mixed liquor splitter box and is split
evenly between the two secondary clarifiers. Effluent from the secondary clarifiers is
disinfected with chlorine and then dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite prior to discharge.
Biosolids from the secondary clarifier are returned to the oxidation ditches or wasted to the
dissolved air flotation thickener. Thickened biosolids are collected and pumped to a sludge holding tank until dewatered in the belt filter press. Dewatered biosolids are hauled to a
composting facility.

B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes

CITY OF PISMO BEACH ORDER R3-2015- 0016
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0048151


ATTAC HMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 No planned changes were indicated in the application submitted by the Discharger.
Subsequent discussions with the Discharger indicated potential interest to establish a hauled
or brine waste disposal program. Central Coast Water Board staff has instructed the
Discharger they may submit a plan for the program for consideration. This Order would be
reopened for public consideration and discussion in the event t he Discharger opts to pursues
the change.
Since the time of the Discharger’s application, the Discharger has completed a Recycled
Water Facilities Planning Study. The April 2015 Study recommends an upgraded treatment
process such that the recycled water m eets standards for groundwater recharge directly into
an inland aquifer. Preliminary schedule estimates indicate the project could move forward
during the term of this proposed permit. If the Discharger will materially change its
discharge’s characterist ics as a result of this project, they will apply for revision of their permit
as needed.

III.