3. QUALITATIVE FIELD SCREENING
A photoionization detector (PID) may be used to pro vide a qualitative screening of each soil
sample collected during drilling. The field screen ing procedure typically consists of sealing a
soil sample in a self-sealing plastic bag or clean glass jar, allowing the sample to equilibrate for
5 to 15 minutes, and scanning the headspace in the bag or jar for vapors. The screening
readings will be noted on the boring log and/or on the daily field log.
4. SAMPLE PRESERVATION
The sample(s) selected for chemical or physical tes ting will be sealed in the liner in the field.
Teflon TM sheeting covers will be placed on the ends of the liner directly on the exposed soils,
and held in place by clean plastic caps. Sealed so il samples will be labeled and placed in a
covered ice-cooled container.
5. SAMPLE PACKAGING AND TRANSPORT
Sample Handling
Sample containers will not be opened, except by lab oratory personnel who will perform the
chemical analyses. Soil samples will be analyzed b y a laboratory certified by the State of
California. Requests for sample analyses will be m ade in writing and will be included as part of
the chain-of-custody record.
Custody Seal
If it is necessary for samples or sample chests to leave the immediate control of the sampler
prior to being delivered to the laboratory, a custo dy seal will be placed on each sample
container and/or sample chest to discourage tamperi ng during transportation. The custody seal
will contain the sampler's signature, and the date and time seal was emplaced.
Chain of Custody Procedures
In order to document and trace sample possession fr om time of collection to time of analysis, a
chain-of-custody record will be filled out by the s ampler, and will accompany the sample through
the laboratory analyses. The completed chain-of-cu stody record will accompany the final
laboratory analytical report.
Information contained on the duplicate, carbonless chain-of-custody form will include:
• date and time the sample was collected;
• sample number and the number of sample containers;
• analyses required;
• remarks, including preservatives added and any spe cial conditions; and
• container number in which sample has been packaged .
Blank space on the chain-of-custody record between last sample number listed and signatures
at the bottom of the sheet will be lined out.
Protocol for Monitoring Well Installation, Developm ent, and Sampling

PROTOCOL FOR MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION, DEVELOPM ENT, AND
SAMPLING
GENERAL SCOPE
The procedures used by Provost and Pritchard Consul ting Group (Provost & Pritchard) for
drilling, construction, development, and sampling o f groundwater monitoring wells were
developed to obtain representative, consistent, rel iable, and reproducible data. The wells will
generally be drilled by the hollow stem auger metho d to approximately 150 feet below ground
surface, and by mud rotary or similar for deeper we lls; other drilling methods may be pre-
approved by the Geologist or Engineer. The exact d epth and screening interval of each
monitoring well will be based on the field conditio ns encountered and the review and evaluation
of past data collected from wells in the vicinity o f the investigation.
Upon construction completion, each monitoring well shall be developed and sampled as
described in this protocol. The procedures describ ed herein are intended to be of general use.
As work progresses, appropriate revisions may be ma de and approved in writing by Provost &
Pritchard's project manager.
PROCEDURES
Field work and reporting will be performed under th e direction of an appropriately registered or
certified professional (Business and Professions Co de Sections 6735 and 7835). All field
personnel have current Hazwoper certification, as a pplicable. All field equipment will be
calibrated prior to field use, and recalibrated, as needed.
Provost & Pritchard will prepare a work plan for th e oversight agency review, and obtain
appropriate permits, as applicable. Subsurface sit e assessment permits will be completed
sufficiently early in the course of the project to allow time for review and authorization at least 48
hours before field activities begin. Copies of sig ned permits will be on site during sampling
activities, and will be available for inspection by appropriate agencies, if applicable.
Complete drilling and sampling procedures are detai led in the Provost & Pritchard Drilling and
Soil Sampling Protocol.
1. EQUIPMENT LIST
The geologist or soil technician will require equip ment as listed in the Provost & Pritchard
Drilling and Soil Sampling Protocol. The water tec hnician will require equipment as listed in the
Provost & Pritchard Groundwater Sampling Protocol.
2. QUALIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTORS
The wells shall be drilled by qualified well drille rs with experience in construction of monitoring
wells. The well driller must possess a current C-5 7 Well Drillers License, valid in the State of
California.
Protocol for Monitoring Well Installation, Developm ent, and Sampling

3. STANDARDS AND PERMITS
The wells shall be constructed in accordance with t he local County ordinance, and the California
Water Well Standards (DWR Bulletins 74-90 and 74-81 ). The Contractor shall obtain well
drilling permits and USA clearance as needed, and s hall report the results of the drilling to the
California Department of Water Resources.
4. EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
Drilling equipment and soil samplers will be thorou ghly washed with a solution containing a non-
phosphate detergent, or steam-cleaned, rinsed with steam distilled water, and air-dried
immediately prior to use on site to prevent the int roduction of contamination from another
source. If equipment needs to be steam-cleaned on site, it will be cleaned in a designated area
prior to reuse. Soil samplers will be lined with s imilarly cleaned and dried brass or stainless
steel tubes as needed, and reassembled for use.
5. WELL DRILLING
During the groundwater monitoring well drilling pro cess the following information will be
recorded and logged:
A. A detailed log of unique soil horizons and hydro geological conditions encountered,
from the surface to the total depth, as interpreted from soil samples. Physical
descriptions of soils excavated will be noted as pe r the Unified Soils Classification
System (USCS).
B. Discrete soil samples will be collected at five foot intervals from the surface to the
total depth, as per standard geological practice, p laced in separate bags for each
interval, and plainly marked with the well name and depth. Additional discrete or
continuous samples may be collected at significant changes in subsurface
conditions. Selected soil samples may be delivered under a proper chain-of-custody
record to a State-certified laboratory for chemical analyses.
C. For mud rotary borings, geo-physical logs may be performed to better clarify the soil
lithology and determine depth to groundwater.
D. The final drillers log shall show diameter, wall thickness, depth, and length of casing
installed; perforated intervals; details of cemente d sections; and other pertinent
details.
E. Permanent records of drilling shall be made by t he Contractor in accordance with the
laws of the State of California governing the drill ing of monitoring wells.
6. WELL CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
Blank and Perforated Well Casing
The blank casing is typically 2-inch diameter sched ule 40 PVC pipe, with perforated casing of 2-
inch diameter, schedule 40 PVC pipe of with machine d slots of 0.020-inch width. The Geologist
or Engineer may propose wells of smaller or larger diameter and schedule based on specific
site conditions.
Protocol for Monitoring Well Installation, Developm ent, and Sampling

Filter Pack
Filter pack grain size will be appropriate to the s elected screen slot width. Filter pack will
consist of Lonestar #3 sand or equivalent with less than 2 percent, by weight, passing through a
No. 200 sieve for the 0.020-inch width screen. The filter pack will be selected to retain a high
percentage of the saturated zone (native materials) to be monitored and will be graded similarly.
The filter pack will extend from the bottom of the borehole, along the length of the perforated
section, to approximately two feet above the top of the screened interval. The Geologist or
Engineer may propose filter pack of smaller or larg er grain size based on specific site
conditions.
Transition Seal
The transition seal will be a minimum of three feet thick of bentonite chips or pellets. The
Geologist or Engineer may propose a different trans ition seal thickness based on specific site
conditions.
Cement Grout
Cement grout will be a mixture of not more than six gallons of clean water per cubic foot of Type
II Portland cement, with up to 5% bentonite, to be approved by the Geologist or Engineer.
7. WELL INSTALLATION
Well Casing
The exact monitoring well construction will be dete rmined by the Geologist or Engineer
contingent upon the field conditions encountered. The casing shall be installed in such a
manner as to avoid damage to the casing and to allo w the proper placement of the filter pack
and annular seal.
Filter Pack
The filter pack shall be installed opposite the per forated interval by using a tremie pipe or
equivalent method. The tremie pipe will initially be lowered to near the bottom of the interval to
be filter packed and then slowly pulled up as sand packing proceeds to the desired depth above
the perforated interval. The filter pack for the w ell screen will be surged and additional filter
pack material added as needed.
Transition Seal
The transition seal will be installed above the fil ter pack. Bentonite installed above standing
water will be hydrated by the addition of clean wat er.
Annular Seal
The cement grout mixture will be placed above the b entonite seal. The annular seal from the
top of the transition seal to the land surface shal l be installed by pumping the cement under
pressure through a tremie pipe. During the operati on, the tremie pipe will be raised as the
annular space is filled with cement. An upper inte rval may be emplaced by free-fall method as
Protocol for Monitoring Well Installation, Developm ent, and Sampling

approved by the local oversight agency. Once the c ement has been installed, the well will not
be disturbed for at least 48 hours.
Well Head and Pad
The well casing will be cut to the required height and capped with a water resistant well cap. A
concrete base will be installed at the well head wi th a water-tight painted steel standpipe and
locking well cover as shown on the monitoring well schematic. A well pad will be constructed so
that surface drainage will slope away from the casi ng.
8. WELL DEVELOPMENT
The monitoring well will be purged and developed wi th a surge block and/or pump after at least
48 hours and after the annular seal has cured suffi ciently to prevent damage during well
development. The monitoring well will be purged of at least 10 well volumes. Development
purging should continue until the measured depth of the well essentially agrees with the
constructed depth, and the parameters of temperatur e, pH, and electrical conductivity (EC)
stabilize, and the water is visually clear of suspe nded solids. Disposal of development water will
be on site or in accordance with local regulations.
9. WELL SAMPLING
Groundwater samples will be collected from each mon itoring well at least 48 hours following
well development and purging. Depth to water measu rements will be taken prior to sampling
each well to establish the direction of the hydraul ic gradient. Disposable or dedicated sampling
equipment may be used to sample the wells. If non- dedicated equipment is used, proper
decontamination procedures shall be followed both p rior to sampling and between sampling of
each well.
After collecting water level measurements, the moni toring wells will be purged of at least three
well volumes and sampled. Temperature, pH, and EC w ill be measured until the parameters
stabilize during the purging process. Once the wat er parameters have stabilized, water
samples will be collected in appropriate containers supplied by the laboratory. The water
samples may be filtered in the field or by the cont racting laboratory. Monitoring well purging and
sampling will be conducted in accordance with USEPA SW-846.
10. WELL SURVEY
The monitoring wells will be surveyed for future wa ter gradient determination under the direction
of a State registered civil engineer or land survey or. The well elevations will be measured to the
nearest 0.01 foot and referenced to state plane coo rdinates, or an assumed datum. The survey
will be performed in accordance with Geotracker req uirements, as applicable.
Protocol for Groundwater Sampling for General Physical/General Mineral Monitoring
PROTOCOL FOR GROUNDWATER SAMPLING
FOR GENERAL PHYSICAL/GENERAL MINERAL MONITORING
GENERAL SCOPE
The procedures used by Provost and Pritchard Consulting Group (Provost & Pritchard) for
purging, sampling and analyses of groundwater samples were developed to obtain
representative, consistent, reliable, and reproducible data. The procedures described herein
are intended to be of general use. As work progresses, appropriate revisions may be made and
approved in writing by Provost & Pritchard's project manager.
Protocols for collecting grab samples from temporary sampling points are similar to protocols
from installed monitoring wells. Exceptions are noted in Section 6 below.
PROCEDURES FOR GROUNDWATER SAMPLING
Field work and reporting will be performed under the direction of an appropriately registered or
certified professional (Business and Professions Code Sections 6735 and 7835). All field
equipment will be calibrated prior to field use, and recalibrated, as needed.
Provost & Pritchard prepared a work plan for the over sight agency review, and obtained
appropriate permits, if applicable.
1. EQUIPMENT LIST
The water technician will require the following equipment for purging and sampling:
Decontamination Equipment
·2 – 5-gallon buckets
·Simple Green or non-phosphate detergent
·small head long handled scrub brush
·1 ½” or 2” bottle brush
Purging Equipment
·Waterra Powerlift II actuator, Grundfos pump, or disposable bailers
·Horiba multimeter with calibration solutions
·Solinst water level indicator
·DO meter or other as needed
·extra Waterra tubing, footer valves, and surge block if using the Waterra system
·2 – 5-gallon buckets
·generator with gas
·extension cord
·tie down strap or bungie
·tool bucket (wrenches, pliers, all thread, zip ties)
·latex gloves
Protocol for Groundwater Sampling for General Physical/General Mineral Monitoring
Sampling Equipment
·sample bottles
·gallon self-sealing plastic bags
·ice chest with ice
·eye and ear protection
·field camera
·clipboard or forms box with the following:
o client contact information
o site map with well locations
o field purge records
o daily field records
o waterproof fine point marker and ball point pens
o sample labels
o chain-of-custody forms
2. EQUIPMENT CLEANING
When dedicated purging and sampling equipment is not used, equipment that may come in
contact with the sample will be thoroughly cleaned prior to arrival to the project site. Non-
disposable bailers and positive gas-displacement bladder pumps will be disassembled, steam-
cleaned, rinsed with (steam-distilled) water, and then reassembled. Wires, hoses and
connectors will be cleaned in a similar manner.
3. WATER LEVEL MEASUREMENT
Prior to each sampling event, the static depth to water and depth to the bottom of the well will be
measured in each monitoring well. These data will be used to calculate the elevation of the
water surface and the required purge volume. The well depth measurement will also be used to
monitor siltation.
Generally, a weighted water level meter will be used to measure the depth to groundwater and
bottom-of-well measurements. All measurements will be recorded to the nearest 0.01 foot.
4. WELL PURGING
In order to obtain a representative sample of the groundwater contained within the saturated
zone, stagnant water within the well casing and filter material must be removed, and fresh
formation water allowed to replace it. Removal of the stagnant water is accomplished by
pumping or bailing the water contained within the well. Purged water may be dispersed on site
or stored in holding tanks or drums for future disposal as applicable.
Where dedicated purging and sampling devices have not been installed, one or more of the
following temporary purging devices may be used:
·a positive gas-displacement, TeflonTM
 and/or stainless steel-housed TeflonTM
bladder pump;
·a TeflonTM
 or stainless steel bailer with bottom discharge unit;
Protocol for Groundwater Sampling for General Physical/General Mineral Monitoring
·a stainless steel submersible pump with galvanized piping;
·a peristaltic pump;
·a centrifugal pump;
·a two-stage air-lift pump (TeflonTM
 or stainless steel); or
·disposable polyethylene bailers with polypropylene check ball.
The purging rate used at a particular monitoring well will depend on the expected or known
hydraulic yield.
When purging a low-yield well (one that yields less than three casing volumes prior to being
purged to dryness), the well will be purged to dryness twice. When the well recovers the third
time, and when it contains a sufficient volume of water for the required analyses, samples will
be collected. At no time will a well be purged to dryness if the rate of recharge is such that
formation water will cascade down the sides of the casing, or if a purge rate of greater than one-
quarter gallon per minute can be maintained.
Groundwater samples will be removed from a monitoring well of moderate- to high-yield only
after a minimum of three casing volumes have been purged from the well casing, and purging
has been of sufficient duration to result in stabilization of pH, temperature, and electrical
conductivity (EC) measurements.
In moderate- to high-yield formations, the purging devices will be placed near the top of the
screened interval to ensure that fresh formation water will move upward in the screen. When
purging low-yield formations, water will be removed from the bottom of the screened portion. If
a Waterra dedicated sampling system is in place, the purging device will be placed in the lower
half of the screened portion.
A field sampling log will be maintained for each sampling event and will include the following:
·sampler's identification;
·monitoring well identification;
·climatic conditions;
·depth to water prior to purging;
·type of purging and sampling device;
·purging rate and volume;
·relative well yield volume;
·field parameter measurements (pH, temperature, EC);
·type and number of samples collected; and
·date and time collected.
The pH, temperature, and EC parameters will be monitored and recorded during the purge
operations for each casing volume purged. Stabilization of pH, temperature, and EC
parameters will be indicated by values within 10% of one another for a minimum of three
consecutive readings. Field parameters will be measured using a pH meter calibrated to
standard buffers, and an electrical conductivity meter equipped with a thermometer. Field
Protocol for Groundwater Sampling for General Physical/General Mineral Monitoring
equipment will be standardized at the beginning of each use, according to the manufacturers'
specifications and consistent with SW-846.
5. SAMPLE COLLECTION
Samples of fresh formation water will be collected only after the appropriate volume of water
has been purged from the casing, and field parameters have stabilized.
To increase the likelihood that groundwater samples are representative of the groundwater
contained within the formation, it is important to minimize physical or chemical alteration of the
sample during the collection process. If dedicated sampling devices are not used, the following
procedures will be strictly adhered to:
·Sampling equipment will be thoroughly cleaned in accordance with Section 2
(Equipment Cleaning) of this protocol.
·Blank samples, if required, will be collected during the final rinse of the sampling
equipment cleaning process.
A general order of collection for some common groundwater analyses follows:
·total organic carbon
·extractable organic compounds
·total metals
·dissolved metals
·phenols
·sulfate and chloride
·turbidity
·nitrate and ammonia
6. TEMPORARY SAMPLING POINT EXCEPTIONS
Once the borehole is terminated, a temporary well screen will be placed at the borehole bottom.
Sand will be emplaced in the annular space surrounding the temporary screen. Groundwater
will be purged by disposable bailer following standard protocol, as possible. Grab sampling will
be performed by disposable bailer. Sample handling will follow standard protocol. Unless
otherwise specified in the workplan, the temporary sampling point will be removed and the
borehole filled in accordance with appropriate local guidelines and our protocols for soil borings.
7. SAMPLE PACKAGING AND TRANSPORT
Sample Preservation
Many chemical analytes and physical parameters monitored in groundwater are not chemically
stable, and therefore require chemical preservation. Sample preservation will be in accordance
with current standards. Sample containers and preservatives will be supplied by the contract
laboratory. Samples will be held in ice in a covered, secured ice chest specifically designated
for the purpose of sample storage and transport.
Protocol for Groundwater Sampling for General Physical/General Mineral Monitoring
Sample Filtration
For some analyses, samples may require filtration to remove suspended particles. As needed,
Provost & Pritchard will filter samples in the field. Unless otherwise specified, 45-micron
cellulose acetate filters will be used. One of two filter types will be used: an in-line filter which is
used in conjunction with a sample pump, or a pressure or vacuum cylinder filter which will be
used in conjunction with a bailer.
Sample Labeling
Sample containers will be labeled in the field. Labels will contain the following information:
·consultant's identification;
·project number or identification;
·sampler's identification;
·date and time of collection; and
·sample identification.
Sample Transport
All samples will be delivered to the laboratory within a time frame to allow for analyses within the
appropriate holding time. Sealed sample containers will not be opened by other than the
laboratory personnel who will perform the requested analyses.
Custody Seal
If it is necessary for samples or sample chests to leave Provost & Pritchard's control prior to
delivery to the laboratory a custody seal will be placed on each sample container and/or sample
chest to discourage tampering during transportation. The custody seal will contain the
sampler's signature, and the date and time the seal was emplaced.
Chain of Custody
In order to document and trace sample possession, a positive signature chain-of-custody record
will accompany the sample through the laboratory analyses. The completed chain-of-custody
record will be included in the laboratory's final report.
8. SAMPLE ANALYSES
Groundwater samples will be analyzed by a California Certified Environmental Laboratory
Accreditation Program (ELAP) laboratory.
Requests for sample analyses will be made in writing and will be included as part of the chain-
of-custody record.
FIELD QUALITY ASSURANCE/QUALITY CONTROL
Travel, equipment, and field blanks will be collected as appropriate and handled and transported
in the same manner as the groundwater samples. Equipment blanks will be collected at a rate
Protocol for Groundwater Sampling for General Physical/General Mineral Monitoring
of one per sampling episode by circulating steam-distilled water through cleaned sampling
equipment during the final rinse stage.
LABORATORY QUALITY ASSURANCE/QUALITY CONTROL
Duplicate samples may be collected at a rate of one duplicate per ten samples, or one duplicate
per sampling episode, if fewer than ten samples are collected. Duplicate samples will be
delivered to the primary laboratory to evaluate the laboratory's reliability.
Depending on the project sampling and analyses plan or at the discretion of the project
manager, split samples may be collected. The split sample will be handled the same as the
primary sample, but will be delivered to a second laboratory. A comparison of the split sample
results will be made to further evaluate the primary laboratory's performance.
Duplicate and/or split samples collected from a single well will be collected from a single casing
volume when possible. When a single casing volume is insufficient, samples will be collected in
as rapid a succession as possible.
Quality assurance/quality control sample analytical data will be used to monitor the laboratory
performance, sampling technique, and as indicators of potential sample analyses or sample
collection anomaly.
For general minerals analyses, a cation/anion balance will be calculated by the laboratory as an
error check.
Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 D






Appendix D -Health and Safety Plan
Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018

HEALTH AND SAFETY PLAN
Riverdale PUD – Riverdale , Fresno County, California – Monitoring Well
Installation Work Plan
INTRODUCTION
This Health and Safety Plan ( HSP) was prepared by Provost & Pritchard Consulting
Group ( Provost & Pritchard ) for the subject site. This HSP complies with, but does not
replace, Federal Health and Safety regulations as set forth in 29 CFR 1910 and 1926, CA
Health and Safety Regulations as set forth in Title 8, CA Code of Regulations, and
guidance established by the CA Department of Health Services. All on -site personnel are
to use this plan as a supplement to such rules, regulations, and guidelines.

If the Groundwater Monitoring Well Construction activities are contracted through Provost
& Pritch ard, this Health and Safety Plan will be applicable.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Provost & Pritchard will have site health and safety oversight and coordinate
responsibilities for Provost & Pritchard employees. A copy of this HSP will be kept on -
site. All on -site P rovost & Pritchard employees must read and sign the Provost &
Pritchard Health and Safety Compliance Form.
Project Manager : Maija Madec , phone (559) 326-1100
The Project Manager ( PM) directs on -site sampling, investigations and operational efforts
of Provo st & Pritchard personnel. The PM may delegate all or part of these duties to an
appointed Site Safety Officer ( SSO ).
Site Safety Officer : Shawn Vaughn, phone (559) 326 -1100
The Site Safety Officer (SSO)’s duty is to protect the health and safety of Provos t &
Pritchard personnel and may be carried out by the PM or other site manager.
Regional Health and Safety Manager : Kim Hansen 559 -449-2700
The Regional Health and Safety Manager ( RHSM ) periodically audits operations for
compliance with this plan, and provides health and safety support as requested by the
SSO and PM.
SCOPE OF WORK
Borings to a maximum depth of approximately 260 feet will be drilled by qualified
contractors to collect soil samples and install up to three monitoring wells. E quipment is
listed in Table 1.
Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 Table 1. Protective and Safety Equipment List
R Hard hat R Safety glasses with side shields
R Chemical resistant steel toed boots AN Ear plugs or muffs
R Work gloves AN Traffic control (cones, caution tape, etc.)
NR Nitrile® gloves NR Wash tubs, scrub brushes, and detergent
R Long pants R First aid kit
AN Shirt with sleeves AN Drinking water
NR PID/FID
R – Required AN – As needed NR – Not required
IDENTIFIED HAZARDS
Physical hazards that may be encountered on site include those from drilling and
sampling operations, heat stress, underground and overhead utilities, on -site traffic, and
equipment failures. These are discussed below.
Heat Stress Recognition and Control
Evidence for heat stress includes flush skin, rash, irritabili ty, faintness, and dry, cool skin.
Heat stress is caused by a number of interacting factors, including environmental
conditions, clothing, work load, and individual worker characteristics. Rest periods,
adequate drinking water intake, and regular monitor ing for signs and symptoms of
distress are vital.
To help prevent heat stress, site personnel should drink a sufficient quantity of water to
maintain body fluids at normal levels. The normal thirst mechanism is not sensitive
enough to provide for sufficie nt consumption of water to replace lost fluids. When heavy
perspiration occurs 1) maintain drinking water temperature at 50 F to 60F, 2) drink 16
ounces of fluid (preferably water or electrolyte replenishing fluid, such as Gatorade)
before beginning work , and 3) drink a cup or more of water or equivalent fluid every 15 to
20 minutes, or at each monitoring break. A total of 1 to 1.6 gallons of fluid per day is
recommended, but more may be necessary to maintain body weight.
Underground Utilities
The drille r will attempt to locate underground utility locations prior to commencement of
drilling and sampling activities. Resources may include site plans, utility companies,
Underground Service Alert ( USA ) (800 -642-2444), and hand auguring methods.
Traffic Hazar ds
Orange traffic cones and/or barricades may be used to delineate an exclusion zone
around the work site. Barriers should be set at a 10 -foot radius (as practical) around the
work area. Unauthorized visitors will not be allowed in the work/exclusion zon e.
SAFE WORK PRACTICES
Eating, drinking, chewing gum or tobacco, and smoking are prohibited in areas that are
contaminated or potentially contaminated, or where the possibility for the transfer of
contamination exists. Avoid personal contact with potentia lly contaminated substances
and wet areas. Avoid kneeling, leaning, or sitting on equipment or ground.
Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Emergency telephone numbers are presented at the end of this HSP. A cellular telephone
is required on site. A first aid kit is kept available at the site for use in case of minor
injuries. If direct contact with contaminants occurs, affected skin areas are immediately
washed with soap and water.
Incident Report
In the event of an injury or illness, work is to be stopped until th e SSO and the RHSM
have determined the cause and have taken appropriate action. Any injury or illness is to
be reported on the Provost & Pritchard Accident, Injury and Illness Investigation form.
Operations Shutdown
Under extreme hazardous situations, the PM, SSO, or subcontractor's Safety
Representative will request that sampling procedures be temporarily suspended while the
underlying hazard is corrected or controlled. The SSO has ultimate authority for
shutdown and restart of operations.
Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS
SITE CONTACT : Vincent Romero (559) 867 -3838
TABLE 1: Telephone Numbers for Fire Department, Police, and Ambulance.
Fire Department/Emergency
Response/Police/Ambulance Telephone
Fire Station 911
Sheriff’s Department/Highway Patrol 911
Ambulance 911
TABLE 2: Nearest Hospital or Care Facility
City Hospital or Facility Address Telephone
Hanford Adventist Health
Hanford 115 Mall Dr,
Hanford, CA 93230 (559) 582-9000
Directions to Hospital from Site:
1. Head south on S Brawley Avenue 0.5 Miles
2. Turn left onto W Harlan Ave 1.0 Miles
3. Turn right onto S Marks Ave 3.0 Miles
4. Turn left onto W Excelsior Ave 9.9 Miles
5. Turn right onto 12th Ave 4.7 Miles
6. Turn left onto Kings County Dr 0.5 Miles
7. Continue onto Mall Dr 0.3 Miles
8. The hospital will be on the left

Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 HEALTH AND SAFETY COMPLIANCE
I, the undersigned, have received a copy of the Health and Safety Plan for the project
identified below. I have read the plan, understand it, and agree to comply with all of the
health and safety requirements therein. I understand that I may be prohibited from
continuing work on the project for failing to comply.
I have been briefed by a project safety authority on the health and safety requirements of
the project.
PROJECT NUMBER Date of Plan
PROJECT TITLE
FIRM

Print Name Signature Date
Print Name Signature Date
Print Name Signature Date
Print Name Signature Date
Print Name Signature Date
Print Name Signature Date
Print Name Signature Date
Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION REPORT

Accident investigated by: _______________________Date:____________ Time:

Injured Person’s Name:

Date of Accident:________ Time of Accident:________ Date Accident Reported:

Where did accident occur?

Injured Person’s S tatement on Details of Accident







Names of witness(es):

Witness Statement:






Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018
Investigators comments/description of accident:







Photographs attached _______yes _______no (If no, explain)

Reason for Accident:
 Lack of knowledge/Experience
 Not paying attention
 Playing around
 Improper Attire
 Repair needed
 Other

Recommendations to avoid similar accidents:





Investigator’s Signature: ______________________________________ Date

Riverdale Public Utility District Revised Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
Provost & Pritchard Consulting Group • October 2018 HAZARD ASSESSMENT AND CORRECTION RECORD

Person Conducting Inspection:


Unsafe Condition or Work Practice:


















Corrective Action Taken:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

