FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Descr iption of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a collection system and wastewater treatment
facility, which provides service to Montecito Sanitary District customers . The Facility
currently serves a population of approximately 9,000.
Influent enters the headworks of the Facility and is processed through macerators
(i.e., channel grinders) and into a wet well . Plant return flows from the belt press
and waste stream mix with influent in the wet well. Wastewater is then conveyed to
the secondary treatment system, which consists of two 370,000 -gallon aeration
basins, four rectangular clarifiers, chlorination in two chlorine contact chambers with
MONTECITO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2022-0010
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0047899
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5sodium hypochlorite , and de chlorination in an effluent channel with sodium bisulfite ,
prior to discharge through the ocean outfall at Discharge Point 001. The design
average dry weather flow rate for the Facility is 1.5 MGD. The average monthly
effluent flow rate January 2017 throug h June 2021 ranged from 0.35 MGD to 1.06
MGD , with a peak instantaneous effluent flow of 7.76 MGD during the same time
period.
Less than 35,000 gallons per day (GPD) of effluent from the chlorine contact
chambers is used for foam control channel spray, rot ary screen spray, plant wash
down needs, dissolved air floatation thickener (DAFT) process water, and belt
press wash water at the Facility.
The District has installed a small pilot recycled water facility to evaluate producing
recycled water in the futur e. The system operates by sending disinfected
secondary effluent water to an ultrafiltration membrane followed by a reverse
osmosis membrane to reduce total dissolved solids. The processed water is
stored in an onsite reservoir and used for plant processes onsite and water for
cleaning operations within the collection system.
Settled sludge from the secondary clarifiers is collected in the Return Activated
Sludge (RAS)/Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) Tank. A side stream rotary micro
screening process removes rags and foreign materials from the tank prior to WAS
being pumped to the DAFT. Thickened sludge is then pumped to an aerobic
digester , and the remaining wastewater is combined with DAFT process water prior
to flowing to the subnate tank and being combined with the main influent flow prior
to the influent pump station. Sludge from the aerobic digesters is dewatered using a
belt press , and biosolids are stockpiled in holding bins prior to disposal by
composting facility.
Bypass piping also allows for flow configurations related to WAS bypassing the
DAFT to the digester, WAS bypassing the DAFT and digester directly to the belt
press, and DAFT thickened sludge bypassing the digester to the belt press.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Although the Discharger has no planned changes duri ng the next permit term,
master planning efforts for the Facility have included setting aside land for recycled
water production in the future.
3. APPLICABLE POLICIES, PLANS, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (CWC), commencing with section 13260. This Order is also
issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and
implementing regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7
of the CWC, commencing with section 13370. It shall serve as an NPDES permit
authorizing the Discharger to discharge into waters of the United States at the
discharge location described in Table 1 subject to the WDRs in this Order.
3.2. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under CWC section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from
the provisions of chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of division
13 of the Public Resources Code.
This action to adopt new recycling requirements for t he Facility if it produces
disinfected tertiary recycled wastewater is not exempt from the provisions of CEQA.
The Discharger is not currently producing disinfected tertiary recycled wastewater,
but if the Discharger decides to do so, it must comply with the provisions of CEQA.
The Central Coast Water Board, as a responsible agency under CEQA, will review
and consider any EIR or negative declaration prepared by the Discharger, and the
Central Coast Water Board will make its own conclusions on whether and ho w to
approve the Disc1harger’s project related to the recycling requirements for the
Facility.
3.3. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
3.3.1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Central Coast Water Board adopted the current
edition of the Water Quality Control Plan for the Central Coastal Basin
(hereinafter Basin Plan) in June 2019 . The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses,
MONTECITO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2022-0010
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0047899
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-14establishes water quality objectives , and contains implementation programs and
policies to achieve tho se objectives the