wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. Treated
effluent will be disposed to a leach field located adjacent to the Facility. The Facility
will serve approximately 103 residential and commercial connections within the
community. The Facility will serve the 1,700 -person community's downtown
sanitary needs. The Facility has a design average daily dry weather flow (AD DWF)
of 0.038 mgd and a design peak daily wet weather flow (P DWWF) of 0.114 mgd.
The project will include construction of centralized septic tanks for solids removal
and Orenco Advantex textile media secondary treatment and denitrification. No
bulk high -strength waste or other trucked waste will be accepted into the Facility.
The collection system will consist of new individual private laterals and new sewer
piping with 2 lift stations. Both lift stations will have backup power. The leach field
is located adjacent to the Facility and is approximately 900 feet south of the Trinity
River. Solids generated during wastewater collection and treatment will be
disposed of at a permitted landfill.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a site map of the Facility, with service area and leach field. Attachment C
provides a Facility design layout. Attachment D provides a Facility flow schematic.
Attachment E is the Monitoring and Reporting Program.
C.Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article
4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with section 13260) of the California Water
Code (Water Code) .
D.Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan),
and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protect ed, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implement ation plans and policies for
protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water Resources
Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state
policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or
potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 4 - February 8, 202 4
Willow Creek Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2024-0005
The Basin Plan identifies beneficial uses for each hydrologic area in the Region, as
well as for specific waterbodies and broad categories of waters. Protection will be
afforded to the present and potential beneficial uses of waters of the North Coast
Region as designated and presented in Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan. The beneficial
uses of any specifically identified water body generally apply to all its tributaries.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Willow Creek
Hydrologic Sub area of the Trinity River Hydrologic Unit to be protected are as
follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural water supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Aquaculture
f. Native American Culture
g. Freshwater Replenishment
Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan identifies the following existing and potential
beneficial uses of surface waters in the Trinity River Hydrologic Unit are as
follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Groundwater recharge
f. Freshwater replenishment
g. Navigation
h. Hydropower generation
i. Water contact recreation
j. Non-contact water recreation
k. Commercial and sport fishing
l. Cold freshwater habitat
m. Wildlife habitat
n. Rare, threatened, or endangered species
o. Migration of aquatic organisms
p. Spawning, reproduction, and/or early development
q. Shellfish harvesting
r. Aquaculture
s. Wetland habitat
t. Water quality enhancement
u. Flood peak attenuation/ Flood water storage
v. Native American culture
w. Subsistence fishing
Waste Discharge Requirements - 5 - February 8, 202 4
Willow Creek Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2024-0005
E.Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241
requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water
quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].”
The control of waste is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

