FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF)
and associated wastewater collection, recycling , and disposal facilities that serve a
population of 16,900 residential, commercial , industrial, agricultural and municipal
users in the unincorporated town of McKinleyville .
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located to the west of McKinleyville, California , just east of the Mad
River and serves the unincorporated town of McKinleyville . Treated wastewater is
discharged from Discharge Point 00 1 to the Mad River when flows in the Mad
River exceed 200 cubic feet per second (cfs) as measured at United States
Geological Survey (USGS) gauge at Highway 299. During dry weather, effluent is
recycled for dry -weather maintenance of the Hiller storm water treatment wetland,
the adjacent forested area, or irr igation of agricultural lands. The Permittee also
has the option of recycling effluent through irrigation on the northern portion of the
former Fisher parcel north of the railroad bridge, on the lower Fisher Ranch, or on
the West Pialorsi Ranch.
2.1.1. Collection System
The Permittee’s wastewater collection system consists of approximately 64
miles of gravity sewer mains, 2 miles of pressure force mains, 1,017 sanitary
manholes, and 5 pump stations. Gravity sewer lines range in size from 6 -inch
diameter to 24 -inch diameter, but most are 6 -inch diameter lines.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1. 37 mgd and a
maximum peak wet weather flow of 3. 08 mgd. Wastewater is conveyed to the
Facility through two 12 -inch diameter force mains from the Fisher Road and
Hiller Road lift stations to the headworks. The combined capacity of these lift
stations is 3.5 mgd. The headworks includes a magnetic -type flow meter to
measure influent flow, a mechanically cleaned screen, a bypass channel with a
bar screen, an influent sampler , and two cut throat f lumes to provide even flow
distribution to the two aeration basins.
Secondary treatment consists of two aeration basins providing a complete mix
activated sludge process using extended retention of biological solids. The
aeration basins have floating aerator assemblies mounted to floating headers.
Each header has a motorized control valve to regulate air to the submerged
diffusers. A programmable logic controller (PLC) is used to automatically
actuate the motorized valves to create separate oxic and anoxic zones along
the length of the basins. The repeated cycling of enviro nments nitrifies and
denitrifies the wastewater without recycle pumping or additional external
basins. With the separate zones, the aeration system can achieve biological
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 Order No. R1-2024-0023
McKinleyville Community Services District
NPDES No. CA0022748nitrogen removal. The PLC is also used to control the blowers based on
continuous dissolved oxygen monitoring in the basins.
Two 50 -feet diameter, 16 -feet side -water -depth secondary clarifiers remove the
biomass associated with the secondary treatment process and produce a
clarified effluent ready for disinfection and final discharge. Secondary
clarification also concentrates the biomass for return to the aeration basins.
The clarifiers include a second center well, the flocculation well, that improves
clarifier performance. The flocculation well reduces short -circuiting between the
influent feed well and the effluent launder and permits natural flocculation of the
biomass contained in the mixed liquor. As the sludge settles, clarified liquid
passes over the effluent weir and flows into the effluen t launder where it leaves
the clarifier for disinfection. Hydraulic -type sludge collection equipment is used
to ensure rapid retu rn of settled biomass to the aeration basins. A single sludge
collection header is used to maintain adequate velocities within the header to
avoid clogging and also provide greater turndown capability for return activated
sludge (RAS) pumping. At a collect ion header tip speed of 6 feet per minute
(ft/min), the collection arm will sweep the entire secondary clarifier invert once
every 26 minutes. A tip speed of 6 ft/min is within the allowable speed range to
avoid undue disturbance of the sludge blanket. The 26-minute rotation time is
short enough to prevent problems such as denitrification that are associated
with long sludge detention times within the secondary clarifier. Peripheral
effluent launders are used to facilitate cleaning of the effluent weirs and to
reduce capital cost. Baffles are provided to reduce the potential for solids short -
circuiting.
Two RAS pumps at each clarifier return the settled sludge to the activated
sludge process in order to maintain a viable population of the microorganisms
responsible for the removal of the organic compounds present in wastewater.
RAS from the two clarifiers is combined into a common line for conveyance to
the aeration ba sins. The RAS pumps are variable -speed submersible type.
Variable -speed pumps offer the most operational flexibility allowing precise
control of RAS flow rates and the ability to closely balance RAS flow rates
between multiple clarifiers. Submersible pumps have the advantage of requiring
no cover or building to house the pumps and they are easy to remove for
maintenance.
A waste activated sludge (WAS) pump draws WAS from the RAS discharge
piping and pumps the WAS to the biosolids storage basin. The pump is a rotary
lobe type with a variable speed drive to provide the ability to vary the solids
wasting rate. A constant -spee d submersible pump will be used to pump scum
from the secondary clarifiers directly to the biosolids storage basin. The scum
pump is located in a sump adjacent to the secondary clarifiers and receives
scum from the clarifiers by gravity. Secondary effluent can either flow by gravity
or be pumped to the chlorine contact basins where chlorine solution is used to
achieve disinfection and sulfur dioxide solution is used to dechlorinate.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 Order No. R1-2024-0023
McKinleyville Community Services District
NPDES No. CA00227482.1.3. Biosolids
Solids handling consists of pumping WAS from the secondary clarifiers to a
biosolids storage basin. The basin has been sized to provide a loading rate of
less than 20 pounds volatile suspended solids per 1,000 square feet of basin
water surface area. The biosolids storage basin has been designed with a
biosolids storage depth of 9 feet, a water cap depth of 3 feet, and a freeboard
depth of 1.5 feet. The basin is scheduled to be dredged , dewatered, and
dredged solids hauled to an off -site disposal site every 4 to 5 years once the
basin has reached capacity. Due to the increased treatment efficiency and the
grade of the solids, the Permittee would like to apply biosolids to land as a soil
amendment. The Permittee estimated that discharge would consist of
approximately 340 dry tons every 4 to 5 years. The Permittee is planning to
begin land application of biosolids on the Pialorsi/Fischer Ranch. This Order
requires that, i n order to land apply biosolids , the Permittee must first enroll in
Statewide General Order No. 2004 -0012 -DWQ.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
2.4.1. The Permittee is planning to begin land application of biosolids on the
Pialorsi/Fischer Ranch. In order to land apply biosolids the Permittee
must first enroll in Statewide General Order No. 2004 -0012 -DWQ.
3.