FACILITY DESCRIPTION

The Permittee owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility
and provides sewerage service to a population of approximately 237,800 residential,
commercial, and institutional customers . The Permittee provides wastewater treatment and
disposal services for residences, businesses, and industries within the Santa Rosa area and provides service to the cities of Cotati, Rohnert Park, Sebastopol, and South Park
County Sanitation District, an unincorporated area of Sonoma County. The F acility accepts
wastewater, septic waste, landfill leachate, and high strength wastes (primarily grease and food production wastes) from the surrounding communities.

A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls

1. Collection System

The Permittee’s collection system consists of 582 miles of gravity sewers ranging in size from 4 to 66 inches, 6.3 miles of pressure sewers, and 17 pumping stations. In addition to the wastewater collection system owned and operated by the Permittee, satel lite wastewater collection systems individually owned, operated, and maintained
by the cit ies of Cotati, Rohnert Park, and Sebastopol convey wastewater from those
communities to the Facility. The Permittee also accepts hauled wastes, including
domestic septage, chemical toilet waste, grease trap waste, non- hazardous
commercial and industrial waste, groundwater, grey water, and landfill leachate, in accordance with its established Trucked Waste Management Plan. The trucked
waste program has been growing steadily since 2015, coinciding with the commissioning and start -up of a High Strength Waste (HSW) receiving station at the
Facility.

2. Wastewater Treatment Facility

The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 21.3 mgd, a peak
weekly we t weather flow of 64 mgd, and a peak monthly wet weather flow of 47.3
mgd of advanced treated wastewater. The treatment system consists of grit removal in aerated grit chambers, sludge and scum removal in primary sedimentation tanks, biological secondary treatment (activated sludge) with alum coagulation, flocculation, and clarification followed by tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.

Advanced treated effluent is discharged to an effluent storage pond system prior to discharge to the water reclamation system or the surface water discharge system. The pond system consists of Brown Pond; Meadow Lane Ponds A, B, C, and D; and Delta Pond. The combined maximum capacity of the existing storage ponds is 1,650
million gallons. The storage ponds allow the Permittee to control the timing, location,
and volume of discharge to protect beneficial uses of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes

The Permittee anticipates completing numerous projects during the upcoming permit term. The Permittee plans to construct an on- site diversion system to allow non-
compliant effluent from the UV system to be diverted to a dedicated storage pond and
replace the outdated UV disinfection system with new UV disinfection system. This Order includes a compliance schedule for completion of the UV disinfection system due to the fact that this upgrade is critical to ensuring consistent compliance with total coliform e ffluent limitations for the use of recycled water that is necessary for the
protection of public health. Additional projects include completing phase two of the primary treatment super -structure upgrade project, replacing the primary influent pump
drives, design of a flood wall at the treatment plant, making repairs to the roofs of
digesters one and two, replacing the waste gas flare, rehabilitating digesters three and four, replacing the emergency generator fuel tank, completing phase two of the
refurbishm ent of the filter valves and actuators, evaluating and seismically retrofitting
the chemical building, upgrading the recycled water distribution system to fill Delta Pond from the Geysers pipeline, improving the Delta Pond diffuser , and completing slope
protection on the levees of Meadow Lane Ponds C and D, and Delta Pond.

The Facility currently has design treatment capacities of 21.34 mgd (average dry
weather flow), 64 mgd (peak weekly wet weather flow), and 47.3 mgd (peak monthly
wet weather flow). Order No. R1 -2013- 0001 includes a discussion of future plant
expansion, disposal, and reuse projects that could lead to increased flows from the Facility. These projects include the Laguna Plant Upgrade Project, Geysers Expansion Projec t, the Santa Rosa Urban Reuse Project, and the Discharge Compliance Project.
The Permittee anticipates that increased flows would be for recycling and reuse, and would, therefore, not increase discharge volumes to surface waters above currently permitted levels. The Permittee has identified portions of the Incremental Recycled Water Program Master Plan (August 2007) and the Discharge Compliance Project Environmental Impact Report ( EIR) (December 2008) that demonstrate that permitting
wastewater flows to the Facility above 21.3 mgd (average dry weather flow) up to 25.9
mgd would not result in discharges to surface waters above the currently permitted level.
Order No. R1 -2020- 0012
City of Santa Rosa
NPDES No. CA0022764


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-15
 As a condition of acceptance by the Regional Water Board of the higher permitted average dry weather flow, the Permittee is required to submit to the Regional Water Board, an engineering report demonstrating that treatment and/or total water recycling capacity has been added to the Facility that would allow the Facility to accept wastewater flows above the current design treatment capacity without increasing
discharge flows to surface water.

In the supplemental material provided with the ROWD, the Permittee evaluated the 5-year projected flow increase against the current system capacity and concluded that
expansion during the permit term would not be necessary and is therefore not planned.
 III.