FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Town of Samoa is located on the Samoa Peninsula in Humboldt County, California. Currently, wastewater within the Town of Samoa originates from 93 occupied residences, the Samoa Cookhouse Restaurant, a post office, hostelry, museum, the Samoa Woman’s
Club, and the Samoa Elementary School. Wastewater from these sources flows into one of three wastewater collection treatment and disposal systems: the Eastern System, Western System, and School System. The School System’s wastewater will be connected
to the new wastewater treatment plant during Phase One of the upgrade project.
The Eastern System serves the majority of the town, including the Samoa Cookhouse Restaurant, Samoa Woman’s Club, hostelry, and 68 of the occupied residences. The
Eastern System currently consists of three septic tanks and two bark filters (the bark filters
are no longer operational) distributed in the collection system that discharge into an
equalization and treatment pond. The pond is followed by a percolation basin located in
near the ridge top on the western edge of Humboldt Bay, just north of the Western side of
the Samoa Bridge. The discharge of this system is to the Humboldt Bay watershed.
The Western System serves approximately 25 occupied residences on the west side of
the ridge line of the peninsula. The Western System discharges through a 15,000 gallon septic tank to a leach- trench system in the sand dunes north west of New Navy Base
Road. The discharge from this system is to the Pacific Ocean watershed.
The Permittees are planning a three- phased development project as described in the
Town of Samoa Master Plan
 (Master Plan) to reconfi gure existing property lines to provide
a variety of land uses including additional single -family residential and multi -family
affordable housing; commercial properties, both coastal dependent and recreational; and a business park. Phase I of the Master Pl an, which is scheduled to be completed during
the term of this Order, will include construction of a new wastewater treatment facility ,
phased construction of a new wastewater collection system, and subsequent removal of the existing wastewater coll ection systems, and bark filters. Flows currently treated and
disposed of separately by the Eastern and Western systems will be consolidated and conveyed the new Facility . In addition to the construction of a new wastewater treatment


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
 facility and assoc iated collection system, Phase I proposes to upgrade nine dilapidated
residences within the existing service area and construct an 84- unit multi -family housing
unit. Followin g completion of Phase I of the Master Plan, the Permittees anticipate the
Facility wil l serve a residential population of approximately 510 in addition to the existing
commercial sources .
Phase II of the Master Plan will construct 105 new single -family residential units and 62
multi -family units. Phase III of the Master Plan involves the c onstruction of a business park
along with additional coastal -dependent industrial development. Phase III proposes to
allocate approximately 35.2 acres for industrial/coastal -dependent businesses and
construct an 18.6- acre business park.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
 Wastewater Treatment Facility
The proposed wastewater treatment facility will be designed to provide secondary wastewater treatment for an average dry weather flow of 0.0528 mgd and a peak
daily wet weather flow of 0.0756 mgd, which corresponds to the maximum
projected flows from Phase III of the Mast er Plan development project .
On March 3, 2020, the Permittees submitted a new Facility design that no longer includes the equalization pond and the pre- anoxic pond. To provide flow
equalization for the new Facility, five 50,000- gallon fiberglass settling tanks are to
be installed and operated in series. Wastewater treatment provided by the pre-anoxic pond specified in the original design will now occur in two 50,000- gallon
pre-anoxic tanks, where primary treated effluent will be blended with recirculated
filtered effluent from the AX -Max filtration units to provide denitrification. Orenco
Bio-tube filters will be attached to the outlets of the sett ling tanks to further
remove solids prior to wastewater entering the pre- anoxic tanks.
Secondary treatment is performed using Orenco AX -Max textile filtration units as
proposed in the original design. The UV disinfection system has been upgraded from the U V Pure Hallett 30 to the UV Pure Hallett 1000 for longer lamp life and
larger system capacity.
 Biosolids Management
Sludge generated during the treatment process will be pumped and hauled to a
dewatering facility to be combined with biosolids from other municipal facilities
and dewatered. Dried biosolids will be hauled from the dewatering facility to a
Class B landfill for disposal.
In addition to the treatment system discussed above, an alternative treatment system is being proposed to provide treatment f or towns on the Samoa Peninsula
that include Fairhaven and Finntown. This alternative system would replace the current treatment system but retain the current system to use as a back -up under
certain circumstances.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
As discussed in Section II and II.A of this Fact Sheet, the Permittees is planning a
three- phased development project within the Town of Samoa. The project will include
replacement of the existing collection systems , abandonment of the existing treatment
system, extension and connection to an existing ocean outfall, and cons truction of a
new wastewater treatment facility.
III.