FACILITY INFORMATION
The following Discharger is subject to waste discharge requirements as set forth in
this Order:
Table 3. Facility Information
Discharger Lewiston CSD
Name of Facility Lewiston CSD Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility AddressLewiston Road at Viola Lane
Lewiston, CA 96052
Trinity County
Facility Contact, Title, and
PhoneMel Deardorff, Board President, 707 -778-3502
Mailing Address P.O. Box 164, Lewiston, CA 96052
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow0.04 million gallons per day (mgd) monthly Average
Dry Weather Flow (ADWF); 0.160 mgd Peak Wet
Weather Flow (PWWF)
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s application for permit renewal,
monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous O rder, and
other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The community of Lewiston was established in 1957 by the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation as a government work camp for the construction of the Lewiston
Dam and the Trinity Dam, a part of the Central Valley Project. Following
completion of the dams, the government parcels were sold to residents and other
investors. Two major subdivisions were created: Lewiston Park and Lewiston
Heights, and various other private parcels, including the Tr inity Dam Mobile Home
Park (TDMHP). Community water supply and wastewater treatment and disposal
for Lewiston Park was provided by the Lewiston Park Mutual Water Company
(LPMWC: WDR No. 83 -52). Community water supply and wastewater treatment
and disposal for Lewiston Heights was provided by the Lewiston Valley Mutual
Water Company (LVMWC: WDR No. 97 -11). The TDMHP has no community
Waste Discharge Requirements - 4 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2020 -0024
wastewater service and discharges domestic wastewater to a large septic tank
and then to an unlined pond located adjacent to t he park. Lewiston CSD proposes
to consolidate, replace and upgrade these three facilities.
The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on June 1, 2017,
which proposed consolidation of the LPMWC, the LVMWC and the TDMHP.
Additional informa tion to complete the ROWD was received from PACE
Engineering on April 10, 2018, June 1, 2018, June 8, 2018, June 22, 2018, July
11, 2018, July 12, 2018, August 8, 2018, September 4, 2018, September 24,
2018, January 10, 2019, January 14, 2019, January 15, 2019, January 21, 2019,
January 29, 2019, February 22, 2019, February 27, 2019, March 13, 2019, March
27, 2019, May 2, 2019, May 13, 2019, May 20, 2019, June 3, 2019, June 17,
2019. The ROWD was deemed complete on June 17, 2019.
The project will include r eplacement of the collection systems and replacement of
the wastewater treatment facilities with an upgraded wastewater treatment facility.
Treated effluent will be disposed by leach field beds located adjacent to the Trinity
River on land managed by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (U.S. BOR). The
Facility will serve approximately 25 3 residential and commercial connections
within the community of Lewiston. The design population is 649 people. The
Facility has a design average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 0 .04 mgd and a design
peak wet weather flow (PWWF) of 0.160 mgd.
The project will include wastewater service to private parcels, as well as local,
state, and federally owned parcels. The percolation beds by the Trinity River are
located on land managed by the U.S. BOR. The emergency retention basin and
sludge storage basins are located on land managed by the U.S. BLM. Copies of
the Right -of-Way and License agreements for both the U.S. BOR and U.S. BLM
are on file and available upon request.
The project to consolidate and upgrade the facilities will include replacing the
collection systems for the former LPMWC and TDMHP in their entirety, portions of
the LCSD (formerly LVMWC) collection system, and LCSD lateral pipelines made
of Orangeburg pipe , a pipe mate rial m ade of wood pulp and sealed with coal tar
and that is long past its useful life, and those that are failing on private property.
The existing suspended pipeline over the Trinity River will be replaced. The
existing LCSD (formerly LPMWC ) wastewater t reatment facility will be replaced
with an Aero -Mod activated sludge facility. Lift Station 1 and 2 will be
decommissioned, and a new lift station (TDBLS) will be constructed to convey all
wastewater from the former LVMWC and TDMHP to the new LCSD wastewat er
treatment facility. The existing LCSD oxidation ponds will be repurposed for use
as an emergency effluent retention basin. The former LPMWC percolation beds
will be reconstructed into eight leach field beds. The leach field beds are located
approxima tely 75 feet north of the Trinity River.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 5 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2020 -0024
Aerobically digested sludge will be dried in four drying beds at the LCSD
wastewater treatment facility and disposed of at a permitted landfill.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a map of the Facility, effluent pipeline and leach fields. Attachment C
provides a design Facility layout. Attachment D provides a Facility flow schematic.
Attachment E is the Monitoring and Reporting Program.
Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for discharges to
land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code (Water Code).
C. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Wat er Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin
Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for t hat purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implement s State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficia l uses applicable to area groundwater within the Douglas City
Hydrologic Subarea of the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area to be protected are
as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IN D), industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture
(AQUA), and Native American culture (CUL).
The beneficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Douglas City Hydrologic
Subarea within the Middle Trinity River Hydrologic Area are as follows: municipal
and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service
supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR),
freshwater replenishment (FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation
(POW), water contact recreatio n (REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2),
commercial and sport fishing (COMM), cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife
habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE), migration of
aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, an d/or early development
(SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
Waste Discharge Requirements - 6 - October 15, 2020
Lewiston CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2020 -0024
D. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requ irements. Water Code section 13241
requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water
quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is
established through