Facility Information
Discharger City of Point Arena
Name of Facility City of Point Arena Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address105 Iverson Road
Point Arena, CA 95468
Mendocino County
Facility Contact,
Title, and PhoneRichard Shoemaker , City Manager, 707 -882-2122
Mailing Address P.O. Box 67, Point Arena, CA 95468
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow0.057 million gallons per day (mgd) Average Daily
Dry Weather Flow
0.86 mgd, Peak Hour ly Wet Weather Flow
Facility Permitted
Flows0.057 mgd Average Daily Dry Weather Flow
0.86 mgd, Peak Hour ly Wet Weather Flow
City of Point Arena June 9, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022 -0015
Waste Discharge Requirements 3II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s previous application for permit
renewal, monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous
Order, and other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The City of Point Arena (hereinafter Discharger) is currently discharging pursuant to
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. R1-2003 -0001 . The renewal of these
waste discharge requirements is for the discharge up to 0. 057 mgd, average
monthly flow, of treated wastewater from the City of Point Arena Wastewater
Treatment Facility (WWTF), hereinafter Facility. The Facility is a secondary
treatment facility designed to treat a n average dry weather flow of 0.057 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 0.86 mgd.
The Facility services a popu lation of approximately 4 45 residents , a school district of
approximately 600 students , and numerous commercial es tablishments within the
limits of the City of Point Arena. There are 184 actual lateral connections in the
collection system. The Facility con sists of a gravity collection system , a lift station
located in the Arena Cove parking lot, a primary aerated facultative treatment pond ,
a secondary facultative treatment pond, and chlorine disinfection. The treatment
ponds are made of Bentonite and air placed concrete, with 6-inch-thick walls and a
9-inch-thick bottom . They are operated in series with the capability to operate in
parallel or with either treatment pond out of service for maintenance or repairs.
Treated wastewater is discharged to four 17,000 square -foot or 0.40-acre
percolation ponds located on top of the south bluff off Bluff Top Road .
To assess the potential impact of the percolation ponds discharge to surface water
and groundwater quality, Monitoring and Repor ting Program No. R1 -2003 -0001
included requirements for water quality monitoring of a domestic water supply well
located on a property neighboring the irrigation field (Thrift Well). Discharges to the
irrigation field ceased in 2011 and accordingly, monito ring requirements at th is
location ha ve been removed from this Order . Additional monitoring for Total
Dissolved Solids (TDS) , Nitrogen, Total (as N) and Nitrogen, Nitrate (as N) , has
been added to the influent and effluent monitoring requirements in Attachment B and
the results will be analyzed as part of the Special Study required in section VIII.S .
The Facility is located adjacent to Point Arena Creek in the NW ¼ of Section 13,
T12N, R17W MDB&M. Attachment A shows the location of the Facility on a map of
the area.
City of Point Arena June 9, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022 -0015
Waste Discharge Requirements 4C. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article 4,
chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with section 1326 0) of the Water Code .
D. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to implement
the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and in so
doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses to
be protected, the water quality obje ctives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provision s of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies f or protecting waters of the basin. The
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Garcia River
Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial servic e supply (IND), industrial
process supply (PRO), aquaculture (AQUA) , and Native American culture (CUL) .
E. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to establish
water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste
discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each
regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water quality control
plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protect ion of beneficial uses and
the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is established through