Facility Information
Discharger Manila CSD
Name of Facility Manila CSD Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Address365 Lupin Drive
Manila , CA 9 5521
Humboldt County
Facility Contact, Title, and
PhoneChristopher Drop , General Manager , (707) 444-3803
Mailing Address 1901 Park Street , Manila , CA 9 5521
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow0.140 million gallons per day (mgd) Average Daily
Dry Weather Flow (AD DWF); 0.350 mgd Peak Daily
Wet Weather Flow (P DWWF)
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s application for permit re newal,
monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous Order, and
other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The Manila CSD (hereinafter Discharger) owns and operates facilities for the
collection, treatment and disposal of municipal wastewater from the
unincorporated community of Manila . These facilities consist of a septic tank
effluent pump (STEP) collection system, grit removal, grinder pumps, pumping
station, metering vault, wet well, odor control, aerated l agoons, wetland treatment
cells and disposal in rapid infiltration basins (RIBs) . The wastewater treatment
facility (Facility) was originally constructed in 197 8, with additional improvements
made over the last 20 years including mechanical system upgrades , treatment
wetlands and rapid infiltration basins.
The STEP consists of 292 individual septic tanks for primary settling and treatment
with septic tank effluent pumped to aerated lagoons and wetland treatment cells
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Manila CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2023-0003
prior to disposal in the RIBs. Septage removed from the STEP septic tanks is
pumped and disposed of at a permitted facility .
The Discharger has applied to the State Water Resources Control Board Division
of Financial Assistance for grant funds for upgrades and repairs to the Facility.
The current upgrade project includes septic tank and riser repairs , pump
replacements, Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition ( SCADA ) system
installation, septage holding tank, air relief valve replacements, piping
replacem ents, backup generator replacement, pond liner upgrades, pond aerator
modifications and new facility fencing .
The Facility is located on the north spit of Humboldt Bay on the Samoa Peninsula
between Humboldt Bay and the Pacific Ocean , as shown on Attachme nts A, B ,
and C, incorporated herein and made part of this Order .
The Facility has a design average daily dry weather flow (A DDWF) of 0.140 mgd
and a design peak daily wet weather flow (P DWWF) of 0.350 mgd. The
Discharger submitted a complete Report of Was te Discharge (ROWD) on August
17, 2022. Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 95-2, adopted by
the Regional Water Board on February 23,1995 , are currently in effect for the
Facility.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a design Facility layout and service area . Attachment C provides a
Facility flow schematic . Attachment D is the Monitoring and Reporting Program.
C. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article
4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with section 13260) of the California Water
Code (Water Code).
D. Basin Plan
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDR s are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin
Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting waters of th e basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal o r domestic supply.
Waste Discharge Requirements - 4 -
Manila CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2023-0003
The Basin Plan identifies beneficial uses for each hydrologic area in the Region,
as well as for specific waterbodies and broad categories of waters. Protection will
be afforded to the present and potential beneficial uses of waters of t he North
Coast Region as designated and presented in Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan. The
beneficial uses of any specifically identified water body generally apply to all its
tributaries. Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Eureka
Plain Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural water supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Aquaculture
f. Native American culture
Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan identifies the following e xisting and potential beneficial
uses of surface waters in the Eureka Plain Hydrologic Area are as follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Groundwater recharge
f. Freshwater replenishmen t
g. Navigation
h. Hydropower generation
i. Water contact recreation
j. Non-contact water recreation
k. Commercial and sport fishing
l. Cold freshwater habitat
m. Wildlife habitat
n. Rare, threatened, or endangered species
o. Marine habitat
p. Migration of aquatic organisms
q. Spawning, reproduction, and/or early development
r. Shellfish harvesting
s. Estuarine habitat
t. Aquaculture
u. Native American culture
v. Wetland habitat
w. Water quality enhancement
x. Flood peak attenuation/ flood water storage
y. Subsistence fishing
Waste Discharge Requirements - 5 -
Manila CSD WWTF
Order No. R1 -2023-0003
E. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241
requires each regional board to “es tablish such water quality objectives in water
quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of waste is
established through