FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates the Facility, a wastewater collection, treatment,
and disposal facility that serves a population of approximately 4,000, including 1,000
full-time residents and many visitors and tourists to Mendocino City, Russian Gulch
State Park, and Headlands State Park. The Facility is located on 10500 Kelly Street
in Mendocino, Mendocino County, California.
MENDOCINO CITY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R1-2022 -0001
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0022870
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-52.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility treats domestic and commercial wastewater and has an average dry
weather design treatment capacity of 0.3 mgd and a peak daily wet weather
treatment capacity of 1.0 mgd. The Facility consists of comminution, extended
aeration activated sludge, secondary clarification, and tertiary filtration. Effluent is
chlorinated, dechlorinated, and flows by gravity to a flow equalization pond.
Influent flows in excess of the design flow can be rou ted to a 300,000 gallon
overflow pond for storage until flows diminish, when the excess flow is routed back
to the headworks for treatment. Effluent from the equalization pond is controlled at
flow control structure A by sliding stop gates, from which flow continues to flow to
control structure B, which has two pressure control valves to prevent backflow
conditions in the outfall. From flow control structure B, effluent is discharged
through a diffuser at Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean. The outfal l
structure is an 8 -inch diameter pipe, 996 feet in length, which provides a minimum
initial dilution of 100:1. Onsite storm water runoff is diverted to the plant
headworks for treatment.
Solids are aerobically digested and dewatered to approximately 12 pe rcent solids
by a belt filter press, then dehydrated to approximately 90 percent solids using a
sludge dryer. Condensate from the dryer is returned to the headworks for
treatment. Biosolids are transported to a landfill for final disposal.
During the dry w eather season (generally May through October) and other
periods, as needed, tertiary treated effluent is distributed to a water recycling
system at Discharge Point 002, which consists of a 55,000 gallon storage tank,
accompanying appurtenances, and a pop -up sprinkler system located on the
Mendocino High School athletic fields. Disinfected tertiary recycled water is
pumped to the high school storage tank in a “batch” fashion, and each tank of
recycled water transferred to the storage tank must be used for fi eld irrigation
before the tank is refilled from the treatment plant. The Permittee may expand
recycled water use to other uses allowed by title 22, including landscape irrigation
uses and toilet flushing at public facilities in the future.
2.2. Discharge P oints and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
No modifications or operational changes that will cause a material change in the volume or quality of discharges
from the Facility have been identified for the term of this Order.
MENDOCINO CITY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R1-2022 -0001
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0022870
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-83.