2.1.1. Collection System
The Permittee’s wastewater collection system consists of approximately 22
miles of 6-, 8-, and 10 -inch gravity pipeline, 1 mile of pressurized force mains ,
408 manholes, and 9 wastewater pump stations. Influent wastewater reaches
the treatment system either by gravity from the nort h and east portions of the
service area, or by force main from the central lift station located just south of
the Facility. The central lift station ultimately receives wastewater emanating from the south and centrally located por tions of the service area.
Seasonal population trends and large amounts of inflow and infiltration (I&I) to
the collection system influence wastewater flows to the Facility. During the wet season (November through April), I&I accounts for the majority of the flow to the Facility, while the dry season (May through October) flows correspond to an increase in vacation residents and lower I&I. The Permittee instituted an I&I rehabilitation program in February 2008 as a compliance project in response to ACL Order No. R1 -2007 -0009. Per the Analysis of Influent Flow & Treatment
Capacity in the ROWD, the Permittee continued to complete inspections and point repairs of the collection system during the term of Order No. R1- 2015-
0017 by implementing its annual program of sewer cleaning, video i nspection,
and repair of manholes, sewer mains, and collection system laterals on a
periodic, rotating basis. Accordingly, the Facility remained below the design
peak daily wet weather flow of 0.77 mgd for the past 5 years with a peak flow of 0.714 mgd that occurred on February 26, 2019 (see additional discussion in
Fact Sheet section 2.2.2) .
Humboldt County
Resort Improvement District No. 1 Order R1-2022-0002
Shelter Cove WWTF NPDES NO. CA0023027

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Facility treats domestic and commercial wastewater and has an average
dry weather design treatment capacity of 0.17 mgd, an average wet weather
treatment capacity of 0.27 mgd, and a peak daily wet weather treatment
capacity of 0.77 mgd. The Facility is an extended aeration, activated sludge
system comprised of two oxidation ditches, two clarifiers, chlorine contact chamber , and s ulfur dioxide dechlorination.
The Facility also includes a tertiary treatment filtration system for effluent reused
for irrigation of the Shelter Cove Golf Course. For this process, disinfected
wastewater from the chlorine contact chamber is dosed with a polymer for
coagulation then routed to the filter building for filtration through either of two
continuous backwash up- flow silica sand media filters . Filtered wastewater is
stored in the building clearwell and then chlorinated downstream of the clearwell
prior to discharging the 3,500 lineal feet to the golf course irrigation storage pond (90,000 gallons) .
This Order includes requirements for the production of recycled water but does
not permit the use of recycled water at this time. The Permittee must complete
tasks that include completion of a tracer study on the chlorine contact basin and
potentially upgrade the Facility to meet recycled water requirements i n title 22 of
the California Code of Regulations. In addition, the Permittee needs to develop a Recycled Water Irrigation Management Plan that also includes an agronomic rate analysis for the recycled water use. After the Permittee receives approval from t he State Water Board Division of Drinking Water (DDW) to resume the use
of recycled water, the Permittee will need to enroll its use of recycled water under Order statewide Recycled Water General Order or this Order will need to
be modified to include requirements for the use of recycled water , including any
conditions for the production and use of recycled water included in a DDW acceptance letter .
During the winter period, all of the secondary treated effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 into the surf zone of the Pacific Ocean within the King Range National Conservation Area. During the spring, summer, and fall,
some or all of the treated effluent has been discharged through Discharge Point
002 to a storage pond that supplies a spray irrigation system on the Shelter Cove Golf Course, a nine- hole golf course.
Digested stabilized sludge is dewatered using a proprietary 12- bag sludge
drying unit. Sludge from the clarifiers is mixed with a polymer and placed in filter
bags that allow the liquid to escape while retaining the solids. The filtrate is
returned to the secondary treatment process, and dried sludge is taken to the
Humboldt County solid waste transfer station for landfill disposal.
Humboldt County
Resort Improvement District No. 1 Order R1-2022-0002
Shelter Cove WWTF NPDES NO. CA0023027

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility currently uses chlorine gas and sulfur dioxide gas for chlorination and dechlorination. Receiving deliveries of the gases has pro ven difficult and
extremely costly. Along with the treacherous and at -times weather -dependent
road, safety and emergency response pose significant issues, as the nearest
emergency responders , in the event of a leak or other emergency , are two hours
away. The Permittee is, therefore investigating converting from gaseous
chlorination and d echlorination to a liquid or tablet system.
The Permittee is also investigating the possibility of converting sections of the oxidation ditches into anoxic denitrific ation zones in order to remove nitrate from
the effluent if this is necessary for water recycling .
The Permittee is in the process of replacing the V -notch overflow weirs on both of
the secondary clarifiers and installing and programming a new SCADA system for
the wastewater treatment plant and collection system.
3.