FACILITY DESCRIPTI ON
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF)
and associated wastewater collection, recycling, and disposal facilities that serve a
population of approximately 11,800 residents, with approximately 4,890 residential,
CITY OF HEALDSBURG ORDER R1 -2022 -0017
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0025135
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5commercial, industrial, and municipal service connections . The Permittee does not
currently accept the discharge of septage or bulk loads.
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located approximately 1 mile south of He aldsburg, California just
west of the Russian River and serves the City of Healdsburg. Treated wastewater
is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Basalt Pond. Basalt Pond is physically
connected to the Russian River within the Geyserville Hydrologic Suba rea of the
Russian River Hydrologic Unit. Alternatively, treated wastewater may be
distributed for reuse within the City of Healdsburg’s recycled water system though
Discharge Point 002.
2.1.1. Collection System
The Permittee’s wastewater collection system includ es approximately 52 miles
of sewer mains, 979 manholes, twelve sewer lift stations, and several miles of
pressurized force main. The oldest portions of the system are approximately 100
years old. The Permittee is actively working to replace older collectio n system
lines and only about 1.5 miles of 100 -year old pipeline remains. Approximately
34 percent of the collection system is between 50 and 100 years old and 40
percent is between 25 and 50 years old. The remaining approximately 25
percent is under 25 ye ars old. Mains range in size from 4 to 33 inches.
Collection system pipe materials include asbestos cement pipe, vitrified clay,
cast iron, and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). There are nine sewer lift stations located
throughout the City of Healdsburg that conv ey sewage from isolated low -lying
areas into the gravity main system , and two additional lift stations located within
the City of Healdsburg Corporate Yard . All sewage discharged to the collection
system is ultimately collected and conveyed through a 33 -inch gravity main to
the Magnolia Lift Station, which is the largest lift station.
The Magnolia sewer lift station handles all of the City of Healdsburg’s sewage,
and includes four dry pit 50 -hp centrifugal pumps with a variable frequency drive
level control system. These pumps draw the sewage from the wet well and pass
it through two parallel 3,700 foot long, 14 -inch diameter force mains to the
treatment plant. In most circumstances, one pump operates in a lead position
and pumps the entire sewage flow to th e treatment plant. Two other pumps are
configured in lag and lag -lag roles, and a fourth pump is in a standby mode for
system redundancy. During periods of high flow, multiple pumps will run
automatically to handle the increased flow rate. A comminutor/grinder at the lift
station reduces large solids in size to less than a ¼ -inch before being pumped to
the treatment plant. Under all but extreme wet weather conditions, the capacity
of only one of the two 14 -inch force mains is necessary.
CITY OF HEALDSBURG ORDER R1 -2022 -0017
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0025135
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-62.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1.4 mgd and a
maximum peak wet weather flow of 4.0 mgd. The treatment system consists of
influent screening and grit removal; biological removal of biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) and nitroge n in aerobic, anoxic, and pre -anoxic basins;
microfiltration through a membrane bioreactor (MBR); ultraviolet (UV) light
disinfection; and return activated sludge pumping from the MBR back to the
aeration basins. Waste activated sludge pumping removes exce ssive biomass
from the system, followed by a proprietary sludge digestion process, dewatering
via centrifuge, and disposal to a Class II I solid waste landfill.
The MBR combines the secondary biological treatment and immersed
membrane filtration processes. The immersed membrane filtration process
separates suspended solids from the wastewater using a very fine filter (i.e.,
ultrafilter). The MBR system at the Facility consists of five membrane tanks
which contain immersed membrane filters with a total filter area of at least
250,000 square feet. The MBR system is designed to treat a peak daily flow of
4.0 mgd in four tanks with a fifth membrane tank, pump, and compressor
available for standby capacity. Instantaneous peak inflows may exceed 4.0 mgd,
and the he adworks structure is sized to accommodate peak inflow spikes up to
9.6 mgd.
Disinfection is achieved in an open channel UV disinfection system with
sufficient low pressure/high output lamps to disinfect a peak daily flow of 4.0
mgd. The UV disinfection sys tem is located downstream of the MBR tanks. The
MBR filtrate pumps discharge directly to the UV basin. Filtered and UV
disinfected wastewater flows by gravity to the 25 million gallon recycled water
storage pond , 15 million gallon recycled water storage po nd, or Basalt Pond.
The Facility includes a 5 million gallon aerated influent equalization basin and a
3.35 million gallon equalization basin , which provides equalization storage
capacity for extended wet weather flows and plant return flows . The Permittee
has the ability to divert inadequately treated wastewater from downstream of the
UV disinfection system and return it to the headworks for re -treatment .
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected tertiary recycled water. The Facility has two
recycl ed water storage pond s, 25 million gallon and 15 million gallon capacity,
with synthetic liner s to provide storage for the disinfected tertiary treated
recycled water and delivery it to authorized recycled water users . Recycled
water is delivered by an eff luent pump station from the recycled water storage
pond to the recycled water system or is gravity fed to the Basalt Pond,
depending upon seasonal requirements.
CITY OF HEALDSBURG ORDER R1 -2022 -0017
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0025135
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7The Permittee has 41,300 linear feet of pipeline to deliver recycled water for
agricultural, in dustrial, and construction uses. Approximately 1,170 acres of
vineyards are directly connected to the pipeline. Additionally, t he Permittee
operates two filling stations for the trucked recycled water program. Trucked
recycled water is used for constructio n uses (primarily soil compaction and dust
control) , non-dairy livestock drinking water, and landscape and vineyard
irrigation, consistent with agronomic demand. Irrigation occurs primarily during
spring, summer, and fall and may occur during dry periods i n the winter. The
filling stations are located at 340 Foreman Lane and 280 Kinley Lane. Syar
Industries, Inc., operates its own recycled water hydrant at 13666 Healdsburg
Avenue. The hydrant is used to fill Syar water trucks for dust control at the
aggrega te processing facility. Additionally, Syar Industries Inc. has installed a
pipeline on its property to utilize recycled water for washing the aggregate
materials used in asphalt and concrete production.
This Order includes requirements for the production o f recycled water at the
Facility. The use of recycled water from the Facility is covered separately under
State Water Resources Control Board Order No. WQ 201 6-0068-DWQ, General
Waste Discharge Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Recycled Water
General Order) , and any subsequent revision thereof .
2.1.4. Biosolids
The Permittee uses a proprietary solids removal and digestion process that
combines aerobic and anaerobic processes. Solids are periodically removed
from the biological process and transferred to two digester tanks, referred to as
interchange reactors. Transfer to the interchange reactors occurs in a daily
decant/fill process, where decanted clear liquid from the interchange reactors is
returned to the biological process, and the volume decanted is replaced with
solids from the biological process. All solids transferred from the biological
process to the interchange tanks are first passed through a 250 micron rotary
drum screen to remove inert non -biodegradable material, which is compacted
and co nveyed to a separate dumpster. In the final solids removal step, digested
solids are pumped from the interchange reactor tanks, dosed with polymer for
thickening, and then dewatered in a centrifuge and conveyed to a dumpster. All
solids are then transporte d for dispos al at Redwood Landfill in Marin County or
Hay Road Landfill in Solano County .
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Permittee is continuing to expand its recycled water infrastructure in order to
reduce and eventually cease discharges to Basalt Pond from May 15 to
September 30 . The Permittee is nearing completion with their Westside Road
recycled water transmission pipeline and anticipates this to be complete in
2022.The Permittee has been awarded a Department of Water Resources grant to
construct a pipeline to deliver recycled water for municipal service. This project is
expected to be completed by the end of 2025.
3.