descr iption of Discharger’s activities to assess the collection system and
to correct deficiencies and reduce inflow and infiltration (I&I) into the
collection system. The report shall include, but not be limited to the
following:
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
ATTACHMENT D – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM D-21i. A description of any assess ment work to characterize the collection
system and identify deficiencies;
ii. A description of replacement and rehabilitation of the collection
system, including details about replaced/rehabilitated infrastructure,
including pipeline, manholes, lift stati ons, etc.
iii. A description of any changes in the Discharger’s ordinances and
programs to address I&I.
iv. The financial resources spent on the Discharger’s collection system
assessment, rehabilitation, and repair work during the calendar year,
and the amount of financial resources budgeted for the upcoming
calendar year.
h. Biosolids Handling and Disposal Activity Reporting. The Discharger
shall submit a des cription of the solids handling, disposal, and reuse
activities during the calendar year. At a minimum, the report should
include:
i. A schematic showing sludge handling facilities (e.g., digesters,
thickeners, drying beds, storage, land application areas, etc.), if any,
and solids flow diagram;
ii. The amount of biosolids generated and disposed that year, in dry
metric tons and percent solids, and the amount used or disposed by
each use site and/or disposal practice;
iii. If the Discharger is required to m onitor sludge prior to final disposal,
the results of this monitoring shall be included in the summary report.
3. Annual Volumetric Reporting. The Discharger shall electronically certify
and submit an annual volumetric report, containing monthly data in el ectronic
format, to State Water Board’s GeoTracker system by April 30 of the
following year. Required data shall be submitted to the GeoTracker database
under a site -specific global identification number. The Discharger shall report
in accordance with each of the items in Section 3 of the Recycled Water
Policy as described below:
a. Influent. Monthly volume of wastewater collected and treated by the
Facility.
b. Production. Monthly volume of waste wate r treated, specifying level of
treatment.
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
ATTACHMENT D – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM D-22c. Discharge . Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to each of
the following, specifying level of treatment:
i. Inland surface waters, specifying volume required to maintain
minimum instream flow, if any; and
ii. Land, where beneficial use is not taking place, including evaporation
or percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal,
excluding pasture or fields with harvested crops.
d. Reuse.
i. Monthly Volume of treated wastewater distributed.
ii. Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for beneficial use in
compliance with California Code of Regulations, title 22 in each of the
use categories listed below:
(a) Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
(b) Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and
playgrounds; school yards; athletic fields; cemeteries; residential
landscaping, common areas; commercial landscaping; industrial
landscaping; and freeway, highway, and street landscaping.
iii. Golf course irrigation: irrigation of golf courses, including w ater used to
maintain aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
iv. Commercial application: commercial facilities, business use (such as
laundries and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and
appurtenant landscaping that is not separately met ered.
v. Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, process
water, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
vi. Geothermal energy production: augmentation of geothermal fields.
vii. Other non -potable uses: including but not limited to dust control,
flushing sewers, fire protection, fill stations, snow making, and
recreational impoundments.
C. Spill Notification
1. Spills and Unauthorized Discharges. Information regarding all spills a nd
unauthorized discharges (except SSOs) that may endanger health or the
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
ATTACHMENT D – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM D-23environment shall be provided verbally to the Regional Water Board 4within
24 hours from the time the Discharger becomes aware of the circumstances
and a written report shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the
Discharger becomes aware of the circumstances of the spill or unauthorized
discharge.
Information to be provided verbally to the Regional Water Board includes:
a. Name and contact information of caller;
b. Date, time and location of spill occurrence;
c. Estimates of spill volume, rate of flow, and spill duration, if available and
reasonably accurate;
d. Surface water bodies impacted, if any;
e. Cause of spill, if known at the time of the notification;
f. Cleanup actions taken or repairs made at the time of the notification;
g. Actions taken to prevent the spill or unauthorized discharge from
reoccurring; and
h. Responding agencies.
2. Sanitary Sewer Overflows . Notification and reporting of sanitary sewer
overflows is conducted in accordance with the requirements of State Water
Resources Control Board Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ (Statewide General
WDRs for Sanitary Sewer Systems), as amended by State Water Resources
Control Board Order No. WQ 2013 -0058 -EXEC, and a ny revisions thereto.
3. Recycled Water Spills. Notification and reporting of spills and unauthorized
discharges of recycled water discharged in or on any waters of the state, as
defined in Water Code section 13050, shall be conducted in accordance with
the following:
4. The contact number of the Regional Water Board during normal business hours is
(707) 576 -2220. After normal business hours, spill reporting to the California
Governor’s Office of Emergency Services Warning Center (CalOES) will satisfy the
24 hour spill reporting requirement for the Regional Water Board. The contact
number for spill reporting for the CalEMA is (800) 852 -7550.
Gualala Community Service District April 7, 2022
Wastewater Treatment Facility Order No. R1 -2022-0004
ATTACHMENT D – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM D-24a. Tertiary Recycled Water5
i. For unauthorized discharges of 50,000 gallons or more of tertiary
recycled water, the Discharger shall immediately notify the Regional
Water Board as soon as (a) the Discharger has knowledge of the
discharge or probable discharge, (b) notification is possible, and (c)
notification can be provided without substantially impeding cleanup or
other emergency measures.
ii. For unauthorized discharges of more than 1,000 gallons, but less than
50,000 gallons of tertiary recycled water, the Discharger shall notify the
Regional Water Board as soon as possible, but no longer than 3 days
after becoming aware of the discharge.
5 Tertiary Recycled Water means “disinfected tertiary 2.2 recycled water” as defined by
DDW or wa stewater receiving advanced treatment beyond disinfected tertiary 2.2
recycled water.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

