Facility Description
The Happy Camp Sanitary District (hereinafter Discharger) owns and operates
facilities for the collection, treatment, and disposal of municipal wastew ater from
the town of Happy Camp. These facilities were completed in 1979, and consist of
a collection system, pumping stations, force main, comminutor, three clay-lined
aerated lagoons for secondary treatment and two effluent percolation ponds . The
wastewater treatment facility (Facility) is located west of the Klamath River as
shown on Attachments A, B and C in the Proposed Order. Treated effluent is
pumped to two percolation ponds located south of the Facility and approximately
800 feet west of the Klamath River.
Waste Discharge Requir ements - 3 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2022-0011
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow (ADWF) of 0.32 mgd and a
Peak Wet Weather Flow (PWWF) of 0.48 mgd . The two percolation ponds are
approximately three -acres in size and are used year -round . The percolation
ponds are designed to accommodate up to 0.32 mgd of treated effluent disposal.
The three aerated lagoons total one and one-half acre s. The Discharger submitted
a Form 200 and a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) on January 3, 2022.
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 98 -2, adopted by the Regional Water
Board on May 15, 2003, are currently in effect for the Facility. The Discharger has
applied to the State Water Resources Control Board Division of Financial
Assistance for grant funds for upgrades and repairs to th e Facility.
Attachment A provides a map of the general location of the Facility. Attachment B
provides a map the service area, and Attachment C provides a map of the Facility
and the Facility design layout . Attachment D is the Monitoring and Reporting
Program.
C. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article
4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with section 13260) of the California Water
Code .
D. Basin Plan
As required by Wate r Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin
Plan), and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quali ty objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and po licies for
protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or po tentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
The Basin Plan identifies beneficial uses for each hydrologic area in the Region,
as well as for specific waterbodies and broad categories of waters. Protection will
be afforded to the present and potent ial beneficial uses of waters of the North
Coast Region as designated and presented in Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan. The
beneficial uses of any specifically identified water body generally apply to all its
tributaries. Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the
Klamath River Hydrologic Unit to be protected are as follows:
Waste Discharge Requir ements - 4 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2022-0011
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural water supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Aquaculture
f. Native American Culture
g. Freshwater Replen ishment
Table 2 -1 of the Basin Plan identifies the following existing and potential
beneficial uses of surface waters in the Klamath River Hydrologic Unit are as
follows:
a. Municipal and domestic supply
b. Agricultural supply
c. Industrial service supply
d. Industrial process supply
e. Groundwater recharge
f. Freshwater replenishment
g. Navigation
h. Hydropower generation
i. Water contact recreation
j. Non-contact water recreation
k. Commercial and sport fishing
l. Warm freshwater habitat
m. Cold freshwater habitat
n. Wildlife habitat
o. Rare, threatened, or endangered species
p. Migration of aquatic organisms
q. Spawning, reproduction, and/or early development
r. Aquaculture
s. Wetland habitat
t. Water quality enhancement
u. Flood peak attenuation/ flood water storage
v. Native American culture
w. Subsistence fishing
E. Water Code
The Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water Board to
establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and prescribe
waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section 13241
requires each regional board to “establish such water quality objectives in water
quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable protection of
beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].”
Waste Discharge Requir ements - 5 - June 9, 2022
Happy Camp Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1 -2022-0011
The control of waste is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

