FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF)
and associated wastewater disposal facility that serve a population of approximately
15,372 within Crescent City and the surrounding County Service Area (CSA). The
CSA has two sub -areas: the Northwest area to the north of the City and the Bertsch
Ocean View area to the east of the City.
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater and has an
average dry weather design treatment capacity of 1.86 mgd and a peak wet
CITY OF CRESCENT CITY ORDER NO. R1-2023 -0039
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0022756
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 weather flow capacity of 6.12 mgd. The Permittee has three significant industrial
users, including a cheese factory and two breweries that are covered under local
pretreatment permits to discharge to the Facility.
The Permittee and CSA each maintain a separate sanitary sewer collection
system within the service area. Flows generated within the CSA are collected and
conveyed in the CSA’s satellite collection system to the limits of the Permittee’s
system. The Permitt ee’s system then conveys combined City and County -
generated flows to the Facility, which is owned and maintained by the Permittee.
The headworks includes a mechanically cleaned screen, a flow -measuring
Parshall flume, and a wet well in which five pumps are available to lift the flow to
the primary clarifiers. Primary treatment consists of two grit removal tanks followed
by two rectang ular primary clarifiers. Secondary treatment is provided by operating
the rotating biological contactors (RBC) and membrane bioreactor (MBR) in
parallel. The RBC system consists of three trains of four -stage, RBCs with a
combined surface area of 1.2 millio n square feet. Flow from the RBCs reach three
rectangular secondary clarifiers. Flows from the clarifiers and any flow from the
MBR unit that is not used for recycled water use are commingled and disinfected
using sodium hypochlorite and dechlorinated usin g sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge to the Pacific Ocean at Discharge Point 001.
The Permittee has the capability of producing tertiary -2.2 recycled water utilizing
flow from the MBR and an ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection system that was
installed in 2010. The Permittee does not currently have any recycled water use
sites, but may produce recycled water in the future if recycled water use sites are
identified. The capacity of the recycled water system is 1.2 mgd; however, the
MBR can treat up to 1.6 mgd.
Solids handling consists of gravity thickening primary sludge, rotary drum
thickening of secondary sludge, and anaerobic digestion of thickened solids. Both
digesters are heated and mixed. Digested solids are dewatered using a belt filter
press and hauled to a landfill.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Permittee may commence discharges of recycled water if any recycled water
use sites are identified during the term of this Order. To authorize the use of the
Permittee’s recycled water at new recycled water use sites, t he Permittee is
required to enroll the new recycled water use sites under State Water Resources
Control Board Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW or submit an application for
modification of this NPDES permit to identify the specific recycled water uses. In
addition, the Permittee must complete testin g of its UV disinfection system to
demonstrate that it meets recycled water requirements in section 60301.230 of
title 22 of the CCR.
No other modifications or operational changes that will cause a material change in
the volume or quality of discharges from the Facility have been identified for the
term of this Order.
3.