Facility Information
Discharger Hopland P UD
Name of Facility Hopland P UD WWTF

Facility Address 13881 US Highway 101
Hopland, CA 95449
Mendocino County
Facility Contact, Title, and Phone Willow County Water District , Jared Walker, General
Manager, 707-462-2666
Mailing Address 151 Laws Ave, Ukiah, CA 95482
Type of Facility Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)
Facility Design Flow Average Dry Weather Flow (ADWF): 90,000 gallons
per day (gp d); Average Wet Weather Flow (A WWF) :
100,000 gpd
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region (Regional
Water Board) finds :
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements. The Regional Water Board developed
the requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the
Discharger’s previous application for permit renewal, monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous order, and other available
information.
B. Background and Facility Description. The Hopland P UD (here inafter
Discharger) is currently discharging pursuant to Waste Discharge Requirements
Order No. R1-2008- 0003. The renewal of these waste discharge requirements is
for the Hopland PUD W WTF (Facility). The Facility has a design ADWF of
90,000 gpd and AWWF of 100,000 gpd.
The Discharger owns wastewater collection, treatment , and disposal facilities
serving approximately 290 domestic and commercial connections within
Hopland in Mendocino Count y. The Discharger has a service contract with
Willow County Water District for operations and maintenance.

The wastewater collection system was originally constructed in 1975 and consists of approximately 19,000 feet of 8- inch vitrified cla y sewer pipe, 3,000
feet of 4 -inch cast iron force main, and two lift stations. The Facility consists of
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Hopland PUD WWTF
WDR Order No. R1- 2023- 0013
three aerated lagoons , a facultative treatment pond, chlorine disinfection unit ,
and two percolation ponds . Disposal in the ponds is accomplished by a
combination of evaporation and percolation. The percolation ponds are located
approximately 250 feet to the southwest of Feliz Creek and 600 feet to the west
of the Russian River on the east side of Highway 101 in an agricultural and rural setting within the town of Hopland.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the Facility.
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) for discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California
Water Code (Water Code). All monitoring and reporting requirements specified
in Attachment B “Monitoring and Reporting Program” are issued pursuant to
Water Code section 13267.
D. Basin Plan. As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan),
and in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the
beneficial uses to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and
narrative) reasonably required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste
discharges, the need to prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code
section 13241. The Basin Plan contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting waters of the basin. The Basin Plan implements State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88-63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the Ukiah Hydrologic
Subarea of the Upper Russian River Hydrologic Area to be protected are as
follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), aquaculture
(AQUA), and Native American culture (CUL).
The beneficial uses applicable to surface waters in the Ukiah Hydrologic Subarea
within the Upper Russian River are as follows: municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial
process supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment
(FRSH), navigation (NAV), hydropower generation (POW), water contact
recreation (REC -1), non -contact water recreation (REC -2), commercial and sport
fishing (COMM), warm freshwater habitat (WARM) cold freshwater habitat
(COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE),
migration of aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning, reproduction, and/or early
development (SPWN), shellfish harvesting (SHELL), and aquaculture (AQUA).
E. Water Code. Water Code establishes the authority for the Regional Water
Board to establish water quality objectives, impose discharge prohibitions, and
Waste Discharge Requirements - 4 -
Hopland PUD WWTF
WDR Order No. R1- 2023- 0013
prescribe waste discharge and reclamation requirements. Water Code section
13241 requires each regional board to “es tablish such water quality objectives in
water quality control plans as in its judgment will ensure the reasonable
protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance […].” The control of
waste is established through