FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a munic ipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF)
and associated wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population
of 1,340 residential, commercial, and industrial users in the community of Redway in
Humboldt County . There are no industrial use rs within the service area. The Facility
accepts wastewater from two institutional users located outside of the service area:
the Eel River Conservation Camp and a YMCA Camp .
REDWAY COMMUNITY SERIVCES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R1-2023 -0004
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES N O. CA 0022781
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-52.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is located in the Benbow subarea of the South Fork Eel River
Hydrologic Area. The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of
0.186 mgd, and a peak wet weather flow of 0.580 mgd.
2.1.1. Collection System
All wastewater generated within t he Permittee’s service area is conveyed to the
Dogwood lift station prior to conveyance to the Facility. Grit is periodically
removed from the lift station wet well. The Dogwood lift station pumps raw
wastewater into an 8 -inch pressure main down Dogwood La ne, under the South
Fork Eel River, and cross -country to the Facility, where it enters the plant
distribution box upstream of the oxidation ditch. Raw wastewater from the Eel
River Conservation Camp and the YMCA Camp enter the plant distribution box
from s eparate pipelines. The Facility has historically received septage at a
septage receiving station located at the Facility; however, the Permittee no
longer accepts septage and does not anticipate accepting septage in the future.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facili ty
The treatment system consists of a 300,000 -gallon oxidation ditch, secondary
clarifier, chlorine disinfection using calcium hypochlorite tablets, and
dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. The Facility discharges treated wastewater
to three percolation ponds at Discharge Point 002. The percolation ponds are
located in an upland area on property adjacent to the Facility across a deep
ravine. Treated wastewater is conveyed to the percolation ponds via a
suspended transmission line .
2.1.3. Biosolids
Solids removed from the secondary clarifier are dewatered in the Facility’s
sludge drying beds or an Aeromod Draimad bagger before being transported to
an approved landfill for final disposal. Decant water is returned to the inlet
structure prior to the oxidation ditch . Solids were previously disposed of though
land application in a wooded area owned by the Permittee north of the Facility ;
this practice was discontinued in 2018.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee is considering significant improvements to their wastewater
treatment system infrastructure and is currently in the process of seeking funding
for this project among other capital improvement projects from State Water Board
Division of Financ ial Assistance . Improvements identified as part of this project
include lift station SCADA improvements and pump upgrades, a new headworks
process, aerator upgrades, clarifier rehabilitation, increased digestor volume, new
chlorine contact basin and efflue nt pump station, sludge drying cover , and an
electrical service transformer upgrade.
3.