FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Whittier Narrows WRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant locate d at 301
North Rosemead Boulevard, El Monte, C A, currently receives wastewater from
Alhambra, Arcadia, Azusa, Bradbury, City of Industry, Duarte, El Monte, Glendale,
Irwindale, La Cañada Flintridge, Los Angeles, Monrovia, Monterey Park, Pasadena,
Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, Sierra Madre, South El Monte, South
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021 -0096
WHITTIER NARROWS WATER R ECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053716


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted Order : 6/10/2021 ) F-5 Pasadena, and Temple City. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic wastewater
and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. Whittier
Narrows WRP has a design capaci ty of 15.0 MGD and serves an estimated
population of 1 50,000 people .
The Whittier Narrows WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, kno wn as the
JOS. The JOS incorporates the Whittier Narrows WRP and six other wastewater
treatment plants, which a re connected by more than 1,200 miles of interceptors and
trunk sewers. The upstream treatment plants (Whittier Narrows, Pomona, La
Cañada, Long Beach, Los Coyotes, and San Jose Cr eek) are connected to the
JWPCP located in Carson. This system allows for th e diversion of influent flows into
or around each upstream plant if so desired .
The Discharger has undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for the JOS, which is
an interconnec ted system consisting of the Long Beach, Los Coyotes, Pomona, San
Jose Creek and Whittier Narrows WRPs, as well as Joint Water Pollution Control
Plant (JWPCP), and La Canada WRP (non -industrial). Due to the
interconnectedness of this system, it is appropri ate to formally evaluate local limits
for all treatment plants on the system at one time so that conditions throughout the
system can be considered. The Districts have reviewed the discharge limitations in
the NPDES permits issued to these facilities and h ave found that changes to
existing local limits are not necessary to meet th e limitations. The most recent local
limits evaluation was submitted to the Los Angeles Water Board in April 2018,
following the NPDES permit adoption of the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant. In
that evaluation, JOS found that the existing limits were f ully protective of the JOS
system and concluded that changes to existing local limits did not appear to be
necessary to meet the limitations .
2.1.2. Treatment at the Whittier Narro ws WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatm ent with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, inert media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The UV
disinfection system has been incorporated int o a dual barrier disinfection system
which includes application of chlorine as free chlorine at a very low dosage
upstream of the UV disinfection to inactivate any virus that is not readily susceptible
to UV, followed by UV disinfection to inactivate any o ther pathogens that are more
susceptible to UV. Since effluent that has been disinfected using the UV process
does not carry residual chlorine, a minimal amount of chlorine is added to the UV -
disinfected effluent to provide minimal residual chlorine to rec laimed water supplied
for direct reuse. Treated wastewater that is not conve yed to direct reuse is
dechlorinated prior to discharge in order to remove any chlorine residual. Treated
wastewater discharged to San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo is dechlorinated .
2.1.3. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewag e solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal and are regulated by Order Number R4-2017-0180 (NPDES
Numb er CA0053813). Attachment C is a schematic of the Whittier Narrows WRP
waste water flow .
2.1.4. The P ermittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
de-nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021 -0096
WHITTIER NARROWS WATER R ECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053716


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted Order : 6/10/2021 ) F-6 Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation s ince
September 2003 .
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
There are no planned upgrades proposed by the Permittee .
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
descr ibed in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California
Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also i ssued pursuant to
section 402 of the federal Clean Water A ct (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted
by the U .S. EPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section
13370). It shall serve as a n NPDES permit authorizing the Discha rger to discharge into
waters of the United States at the discharge location s described in Table 2 subject to the
WDRs in this Order .
3.2. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is e xempt from
the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencin g with section 21100) of Division 13 of
the Public Resources Code.
3.3. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
3.3.1. Water Quality Control Plan
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region (Basin Plan) designates
beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives (WQOs), and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters
addressed through the p lan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan.
Beneficial uses applicable to San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo are as follows :
Table F -4. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses –