re-evaluation will be required and the Permittee shall submit to the Los Angeles
Water Board a revised local limits evaluation for Los Angeles Water Board approval within 180 days of the effective date of Order No. R4- 2022- 0175.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Saugus WRP consists of influent screening, primary sedimentation,
activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, dual media pressure filtration, disinfection (UV and/or
chloramination) , and dechlorination as needed.
2.1.4. Hypochlorite and ammonia are used to disinfect treated effluent at the Saugus WRP
prior to discharging the effluent to the Santa Clara River. Disinfecting agent may be
added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. UV disinfection will be a new disinfection process used at the Saugus WRP to reduce chloride discharge to the Santa Clara River. However, the chloramination disinfection system will be retained as a backup disinfection process . Treated wastewater discharged to Santa Clara
River is dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite, to remove residual chlorine when
chloramines are used as the disinfecting agent.
2.1.5. Biosolids from
 both the Valencia and the Saugus WRPs are processed at the
Valencia WRP and hauled offsite. Waste activated sludge from both the Saugus and
Valencia WRPs is thickened by dissolved air flotation. Thickened waste activated
sludge and primary sludge are combined, digested anaerobically, dewatered and
then reused through composting, although the permittee may also dispose of biosolids in a landfill or by direct land application. Attachment C contains schematics of the Saugus WRP wastewater flow .
2.1.6. The P ermittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
denitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since September 2003. SCVSD installed the UV disinfection system at the Saugus WRP
on July 20, 2021, in accordance with the milestones established in Time Schedule Order No. R4 -2019- 0056- A02, adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board on July 8,
2021. SCVSD continued optimizing the UV system during the fourth quarter 2021 and first quarter 2022 as follows: tested UV performance, i mplemented corrective
actions ( replaced UV intensity sensors, i ncreased UV dose , etc.), and did
SANTA CLARITA VALLEY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2022- 0175
SAUGUS WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054313


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 05/12/2022 F-7 troubleshooting on UV equipment alarms (UV intensity sensors, UV transmittance
sensors, UV electrical ballast, other UV related equipment) .
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
SCVSD plans on meeting the TMDL- based chloride final effluent limitation by upgrading its
disinfection system, designing, and constructing additional treatment equipment, in accordance with the deadlines established in TSO No. R4- 2019- 0056- A02. The UV
technology will be designed to disinfect the treated effluent, lower the amounts of disinfection byproducts produced, as well as reduce chloride concentrations by approximately 7 mg/L.
3.