existing facility. The project's discharge to the .
disposal area will not cause significant impacts on ground \vater and surface waters, or
depletion of limited ground water resources. The discharge allows wastewater utility
service necessary for the protection of the public and economic expansion in the area, and
is considered to be a benefit to the people of the State.
16. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
17. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 80-190 is rescinded and that Fresno County Water
Works District No. 41, its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall
comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' or 'designated', as defined in Sections
252l(a) and 2522(a) of Title 23, California Code of Regulations, Section 2510, et
seq., (hereafter Chapter 15) is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. The monthly average dry weather discharge shall not exceed 80,000 gpd.
2. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shaHnot be perceivable beyond the
limits of the wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance \\'ith Discharge Specification No. B.2, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not
be less than 1.0 mg/1. '
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRESNO COUNTY WWD NO. 41 WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
-----------
4. The effluent from the treafrnent fac1fftishaf1 not exceed the follo-w1ngl1mhs:
Monthly Daily
Constituent Units Average Maximum
BOD51 mg/1 40 80
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100. ml 23 240
Settleable Solids rnl/1 0.2 0.5
1 5-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
5. Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.5
6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular: -4-
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are
not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. Public contact with wastewater in the treatment and disposal areas shall be precluded
through such means as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
8. Ponds shall have suffici.ent capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100
years, distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard
shall never.be less than t\vo feet (measured vertically).
9. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification No. B.8.
C. Sludge Disposal Specifications:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15 and approved by the l
Executive Officer.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRESNO COUNTY WWD NO. 41 WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
---------- ------ ---r . !
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or c:fisposal~practice sfialflJereportedfu the-
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change. -5-
3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal and state laws
and regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards included
in 40 CFR 503.
If the State Water Resources Control Board and the regional water quality control
boards accept primacy to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR 503, this Order
may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules and technical standards.
The Discharger must comply with the standards and time schedules contained in 40
CFR 503 whether or not they have been incorporated into this Order.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying ground water
to contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background water
quality ..
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 95-264,
which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive
Officer.
2. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements," dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
· individual paragraphs are conunonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
3. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique
currently available to comply with limits specified in this order.
4. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision
or rescission of this Order.
5. The Discharger ·shall implement and complete the tasks identified in the work plan
identified in Finding No. 12 to redevelop the existing wells and submit a technical
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRESNO COUNTY WWD NO. 41 \V'V.-'TF
FRESNO COUNTY ·-6-
~:::port. The technical report shall identify the wells that are fully oper::nional and. as
appropriate. contain recommendations for replacing nonoperational we I ls vvith new
wells. The proposed net\vork of wells shall provide for accurate characterization of
ground water quality and determination of ground water gradient and direction of
flow in the vicinity of the disposal areas and at the point of compliance (the property
boundaries of the WWTF). The technical report shall be subject to the prior approval
of the Executive Officer and be prepared by a California registered civil engineer or
certified engineering geologist with experience in this type of investigation.
6. By 15 September 1996, the Discharger shall submit a technical report consisting of
plans and specifications for compliance with the disinfection requirements of
Discharge Specification No. B.4. The report shall contain a time schedule for
implementation by 1 November 1996.
7. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each report due date the
specified document or, if an action is specified, a written report detailing evidence of
compliance with the date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, the reasons
for such noncompliance shall be stated, plus an estimate of the date when the
Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Board by letter
when it returns to compliance with the time schedule. ·
8. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the WWTF for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
9. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes. it shall comply \\ith the most
current edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction
Purposes". Other uses of reclaimed water not specifically authorized herein shall be
subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and shall. comply with 22 CCR,
Division 4.
10. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full. true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 8 December 1995.
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
JLA:jla/fmc
n. ~ ..
I )
. CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 95-264 ·
FOR
FRE:SNO CQUNTY FATER WQRKSPJSIRJCTN0.41
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
EFFLUENT MONITORING
Except for flow, which may also be measured at the headworks, effluent samples shall be
collected prior to discharge to the disposal ponds. Effluent samples should be representative of
the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection of a grab sample shall be recorded.
Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:
Constituents Units T)'.~ of Sam12le FreQuenc)'.
Total Daily Flow gpd Continuous Daily
Settleable Solids · ml/1 Grab· Weekdays
BOD/ mg/1 Grab Weekly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml Grab Weekly
2 If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate