Harbor area) and fr om a number of other cities and agencies under contractual
agreements, including the City of San Fernando , the Las Virgenes Municipal Water
District , and the Triunfo Canyon Sanitation District. This system allows biosolids,
solids, and excess flows to be d iverted from the upstream treatment plants to the
Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant for treatment and disposa l. All solids removed
from the Burbank WRP treatment process are returned untreated to the North
Outfall Sewer (NOS), for downstream treatment at th e Hyperion Water Reclamation
Plant. If the Burbank WRP has operational problems or need s to shut down,
CITY OF BURBANK ORDER R4 -2023 -0358
BURBANK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0055531
ATTACHMENT F -FACT SHEET F-5
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023wastewater can also be diverted back to the NOS for treatment at the Hyperion
Water Reclamation Plant.
2.1.2. The Dis charger occasionally evaluates its local limits for industrial and commercial
sources that discharge to the Burbank WRP to determine if local limits are sufficient
to prevent pass -through or interference at the Burbank WRP and Hyperion WRP, to
comply with permit limitations, to comply with recycled water and biosolid reuse
requirements , and to ensure worker safety and public health. The Discharger
conduct ed a local limits evaluation after the 2017 NPDES permit renewal , as
required , and modified its Sewer Use Ordinance in the Burbank Municipal Code on
December 17, 2019 to include a statement specifying that the local limits are
instantaneous limitations. This change to the SUO was not considered a substantial
change to the approved pretreatment program, so it did not need to un dergo a
separate public review process. Accordingly, the SUO went into effect 45 days later.
In accordance with 40 CFR § 122.44(j)(2)(ii), the Discharger is required to submit a
written technical evaluation of the need to revise local limits following the effective
date of this Order.
2.1.3. The treatment system at the Burbank WRP consists of bar screen removal of large
solids , flow equalization, primary sedimentation, nitrification and denitrification
(NDN) activated sludge biological treatment, secondary clarification, coagulation,
single media and deep bed sand filtration , disinfection by chlorination with the
addition of ammonium hydroxide, and dechlorination. Since the Burbank WRP does
not process its own solids, s olids from the Facility are returned to the collection
system for processing at the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant. Solids returned to
the sewer consist of screenings, primary and secondary sludge skimmings, and filter
backwash. Attachment C 1 includes a process flow diagram of the Burbank WRP .
2.1.4 In order to achieve compliance with the ammonia water quality objectives (WQOs)
specified in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region (Basin Plan),
the Discharger installed a n NDN process , the Enhanced Modified Ludzack -Ettinger
(eMLE) Process, in June 2007. Since the installation of t his additional treatment , the
Discharger has been able to meet ammonia final

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has capital improvement projects scheduled for the facility. The following
table summarizes planned changes at the facility:
Table F -4: Summary of Capital Improvement Projects
Project Name Description Status Start Date End Date
Plant Control
SystemReplace current
with new SCADA
systemDesign 2023 2025
CITY OF BURBANK ORDER R4 -2023 -0358
BURBANK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NUMBER CA0055531
ATTACHMENT F -FACT SHEET F-11
ADOPTED : 10/19/2023Project Name Description Status Start Date End Date
Influent PumpsReplace two
pumpsPumps being
fabricated and
remaining design
is ongoing2022 2025
Grit RemovalAdd new grit
removal systemPreliminary
Plann ing2025 2027
3.