FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. The Hill Canyon TP is a tertiary wastewater treatment facility with a dry weather
design capacity of 14 mgd. The City’s was tewater collection system discharges
into g ravity mainlines known as Unit W and Unit Y, but they are also referred to
as South Influent and North Influent, respectively. Influent undergoes preliminary
treatment through a rock baffle and step -stair screens , for debris and trash
removal. Wastewater undergoes primary clarification, nitrification and
denitrification for biological nitrogen removal (BNR), secondary clarification, flow
equalization, filtration, disinfection using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlo rination
using sodium bisulfite .
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 130,000 people. The wastewater
is a mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated
pursuant to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CF R) part 403 under
the City of Thou sand Oaks’ Pretreatment Program, which was approved by
USEPA on June 2, 1982, with concurrence of the Regional Water Board. The
City of Thousand Oaks’ pretreatment program currently consists of six permitted
nondomestic d ischargers. All six are classifie d as significant industrial users
(SIUs) pursuant to 40 CFR 403.3(v). Three of them are categorical industrial
users (CIUs): two are computer chip manufacturers under 40 CFR 469.18A and
one is a printed circuit board manu facturer under 40 CFR 433.17. The City also
has a fats, oils, and grease (FOG) program and conducts inspections of its
restaurants every two years, or as dictated by its MS4 permit .
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operati ons,
and/or equipment :
a. Primary clarification: In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out,
thickened, and returned to the anaerobic digesters for additional treatment.
Primary -treated wastewater is sent to the BNR basins .
b. Secondary Clarification: Wastewater that has received prima ry clarification
enters the activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen removal using the
Modified Ludzak -Ettinger (MLE) process. Wastewater that has undergone
the nitrification/denitrification process is sent to the seco ndary filters.
Secondary treated w astewater is sent to the tertiary filters .
c. Equalization Basins: Equalization basins allow for adjustments of flow of
primary clarifier effluent to the MLE process and/or headworks throughout
the day . They help the system run closer to a steady state condi tion.
d. Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream. Filters remove the solids
that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby improving
the disinfection efficie ncy and reliability. Filter backwash water is returned to
the headworks for treatment .
e. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite and aqueous ammonia are used as
disinfectants in the chlorine contact chamber. The disinfecting age nt is
THE CITY OF THOUSAND OA KS ORDER R4-2019 -0137
HILL CANYON TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0056294
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted: 11/14/2019 ) F-5 added to the treated effluen t to destroy bacteria, pathogens, and viruses, and
to minimize algal growth .
f. Dechlorination: Prior to discharge to North Fork Arroyo Conejo , sodium
bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine .
g. Solids handling: Grit and screenings are hauled off -site for disposal in a
landfill. Sludge from secondary clarifiers is either pumped to the MLE
process (return activated sludge) or to the gravity belt thickeners. Sludge
from the belt press is either sun d ried at HCTP and hauled to a landf ill or
hauled directly to a landfill off the screw press .
B. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
No planned upgrades are being proposed by the Permittee during the next five years .
III.