FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Valencia WRP , a tertiary wastewater treatment plant located at 28185 The Old
Road, Santa Clarita, CA 91355 , currently receives wastewater from the City of Santa
Clarita and unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County. The wastewater is a mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated
pursuant to 40 CFR part 403. Valencia WRP has a design capacity of 21.6 MGD
and serves an estimated population of 185,119 people.
The Valencia WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the
SCVSD . The SCVSD currently incorporates the Valencia WRP and the Saugus
WRP, which are connected by interceptors and trunk sewers. The Valencia WRP
will temporarily treat the sewage generated by the first 6,000 dwelling units of Newhall Ranch, until such time as the Newhall Ranch WRP is built, as described in the amendment to the Valencia WRP NPDES permit, R4- 2009- 0074 -A01, adopted
by the Los Angeles Water Board on December 5, 2013. Once the Newhall Ranch
WRP is built and operational, the biosolids generated at the Newhall Ranch WRP will be sent to the Valencia WRP for processing until such time as the Newhall Ranch WRP has its own solids handling facilities. The SCV SD system allows for the
diversion of influent flows from the Saugus WRP to the Valencia WRP if so desired .
The interim Valencia- Newhall wastewater treatment scenario is described in further
detail in a separate Los Angeles Water Board Order No. R4- 2012- 0139, Clean
Water Act Section 401 Water Quality Certification and Waste Discharge Requirements (401 WDRs) for Newhall Land and Farming Company (File No. 11 -
168), adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board on September 14, 2012. Order No.
R4-2012- 0139, requires t hat: “For purposes of further treating wastewater (to a
chloride level of 100 mg/l or less for up to 6000 equivalent dwelling units) from Newhall Ranch that will be sent to the Valencia WRP, Newhall Land, or its successor, shall complete construction of interim chloride and demineralization facilities to the satisfaction of the Los Angeles Water Board prior to discharging sewage from Newhall Land to the Valencia WRP or other publicly owned treatment works. The interim chloride and demineralization facilities shall be sufficient to
SANTA CLARITA VALLEY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2022- 0174
VALENCIA WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054216


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 05/12/2022 F-6 ensure that any wastewater discharge attributable to Newhall Ranch does not result
in discharge to the Santa Clara River of effluent containing chloride in concentrations exceeding 100 mg/L. If sewage from Newhall Land does not alr eady
meet the chloride limit of 100 mg/L, an equivalent volume of effluent shall be removed from the combined Newhall/Valencia partially treated waste stream and shall be treated at the interim chloride and demineralization facility to meet 100 mg/L chlori de prior to discharge.” Newhall Land will install temporary equipment and/or
install facilities, at the Valencia WRP and/or adjacent to the Valencia WRP, to reduce chloride concentrations, as required by Los Angeles Water Board Order No.
R4-2012- 0139. Refe r to the multiple Process Flow Diagrams in Attachment C to see
the multiple treatment scenarios. Newhall may discharge the permeate (high quality
product water) from the chloride reducing facility to (1) the Valencia WRP sewer
system, authorized under a separate industrial user permit issued by SCVSD’s pretreatment program staff or (2) upstream of the UV disinfection process at the
Valencia WRP .
2.1.2. The Discharger has undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for the SCVSD in the
Santa Clara River W atershed. The most recent local limits evaluation was submitted
to the Los Angeles Water Board on October 29, 2015. In that evaluation, SCVSD
found that the existing limits were fully protective of the SCVSD system . However, a
re-evaluation will be necessa ry and the Permittee shall submit to the Los Angeles
Water Board, within 180 days of the effective date of Order No. R4- 2022- 0174 , a
revised local limits evaluation for Los Angeles Water Board approval .
2.1.3. Treatment at the Valencia WRP consists of influent screening, primary
sedimentation, primary effluent equalization, activated sludge biological treatment
with nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, inert media filtration, disinfection (UV and/or chloramination) , and dechlorination (as needed) . Treated
wastewater discharged to Santa Clara River is dechlorinated when chloramines are
used as the disinfecting agent .
2.1.4. Hypochlorite and ammonia are still used to disinfect treated effluent at the Valencia
WRP prior to discharging the effluent to the Santa Clara River. SCVSD plans on
using chloramines as the disinfecting agent for its recycled water program, which is regulated under separate Waste Discharge Requi rements that serve as Water
Reclamation Requirements. However, once the UV disinfection system is optimized, UV disinfection will replace the chloramine disinfection system for portion of the effluent that is discharged to the Santa Clara River. Disinfecting agent is added to
the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. Prior to discharge, sulfur dioxide and/or sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
2.1.5. Biosolids from
 both the Valencia and the Saugus WRPs are processed at the
Valencia WRP and hauled offsite. Waste activated sludge from both the S augus and
Valencia WRPs is thickened by dissolved air flotation. Thickened waste activated sludge and primary sludge are combined, digested anaerobically, dewatered and
then reused through composting, although the permittee may also dispose of
SANTA CLARITA VALLEY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2022- 0174
VALENCIA WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054216


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 05/12/2022 F-7 biosolids in a landfill or by direct land application. Attachment C contains schematics
of the Valencia WRP wastewater flow .
2.1.6. The P ermittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
denitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since September 2003. SCVSD is making progress towards completing the UV
disinfection, Micro Filtration, and Reverse Osmosis (MF/RO) capital improvement projects. in accordance with the milestones established in Time Schedule Order No. R4-2019- 0055 -A02, adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board on July 8, 2021.
SCVSD began constructing the MF/RO treatment units and should complete construction by December 31, 2022.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
SCVSD plans on meeting the TMDL- based chloride final effluent limitation by upgrading its
disinfection system, designing, and constructing additional treatment equipment, in
accordance with the deadlines established in TSO No. R4- 2019- 0055 and its
amendments . The UV technology will be designed to disinfect the treated effluent, lower
the amounts of disinfection byproducts produced, as well as reduce chloride concentrations by approximately 7 mg/L.
3.