existing facility.

21. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to prescribe
waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an opportunity for a
public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and recommendations.

22. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all com ments pertaining to the discharge.




IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 76 -252 is rescinded and
the City of Maricopa and United States Bureau of Land Management, as well as their agents, successors,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND BLM
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY

 -4-
and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and
regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following:

A. Discharge Prohibitions

1. Discharge of waste to surface waters or surface water d rainage courses is prohibited.

2. Overflow of waste is prohibited.

3. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardous,’ as defined in Section 2521 (a) of Title 23, CCR,
Section 2510 et seq., or ‘designated,’ as defined in Section 13173 of the California Water Code,
is prohibited.

B. Discharge Specifications

1. The monthly average discharge shall not exceed the calculated capacity of the Facility’s
disposal ponds, as determined by the technical report required pursuant to Provision E.3.

2. All influent and effluent must be maintained within the designated disposal area.

3. Objectionable odors originating at the Facility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of the
designated disposal area.

4. Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6 or greater than 9.

5. Discharge EC (conductivity at 25oC) shall not exceed source water EC plus 500 mhos/cm.

6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,

a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are not
created around the perimeter of the water surface.

b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, and herbicides.

c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.

7. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences and signs, or
acceptable alternatives.

8. The Facility’s disposal ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate wastewater flow at
design seasonal precipitation while meeting all terms of this Order. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND BLM
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY

 -5-
distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be
less than two feet (measured vertically to the lowest point of potential overflow).

9. On or about 1 October of each year, available disposal pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification B.8.

10. Solids, scum, grease and other wastewater materials shall not be visible on the surface of the
disposal ponds.

C. Sludge Disposal Specifications

1. Collected sludges, scums, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be disposed of in a
manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Consolidated Regulations for
Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste , as set forth in Title 27, CCR,
Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 20005 et seq.

2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the Executive
Officer and USEPA Regional Administrator at least 90 days in advance of the change.

D. Groundwater Limitations

The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying groundwater to
contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background water quality,
expect of conductivity. Regarding EC, the Discharger shall not cause the groundwater to exceed an
incremental increase in EC greater the 25 mhos/cm over any five -year period.

E. Provisions

1. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 5 -00-153, which is
part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive Officer .

2. The Discharger shall comply with Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements , dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and by reference a
part of this Order. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as
Standard Provision(s).

3. By 31 December 2000, the City shall submit a written technical report with data, calculations,
assumptions, and other information determining the average monthly discharge rate that
assures compliance with Discharger Specification B.8. The technical report shall be
 prepared and certified by a California registered civil engineer experienced in wastewater
treatment and disposal facility design. Upon written approval of the technical report by the
Executive Officer, this Provision will be considered satisfied.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND BLM
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY

 -6-
4. The City of Maricopa shall retain primary responsibility for the day -to-day compliance with
this Order. The United States Bureau of Land Management, as owner of the disposal property,
shall have the secondary responsibility until such time that the City attains ownership from
BLM of the property described in Finding No. 6.

5. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence
of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediatel y forwarded to this office.

To assume operation under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply in writing
to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must contain the
requesting entity’s full legal name, the state of incorporation if a corporation, the name and
address and telephone number of the persons responsible for contact with the Board, and a
statement. The statement shall comply with the signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3
and state that the new owner or operator assumes full responsibility for compliance with this
Order. Failure to submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a
violation of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the
Executive Officer.

6. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of
technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may result in
enforcement action, including Board or court or ders requiring corrective action or imposing
civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.

7. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the Facility for reference by the personnel responsible for
wastewater management. These persons shall be familiar with its contents.

8. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.

I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and correct
copy of an Order adopted by th e California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley
Region, on 16 June 2000.


 GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer


CS:fmc:6/16/00
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5 -00-153

FOR
CITY OF MARICOPA
AND
UNITED STATES BURE AU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established with concurrence of the Board's staff, and a
description of the stations shall be submitted to the Board and attached to this Program.


 DISPOSAL POND MONITORING

The freeboard shall be monitored on all storage ponds to the near est tenth of a foot. A permanent marker
shall be placed in each pond with calibration including the water level at design capacity and available
operational freeboard. Monitoring of the disposal ponds shall include at least the following:

Constituent Units Type of Sample Frequency

Flow gpd Estimate Monthly

BOD1 mg/l Grab Monthly

pH pH Units Grab Monthly

EC2 mhos/cm Grab Monthly

Freeboard feet Observation Monthly
1 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
2 Conductivity at 25C)

In addition, the Discharger shall inspect the condition of the disposal ponds once per week and write
visual observations in a bound log book. Notations shall include observations of whether weeds are
developing in the water or along the bank, and their location; whether dead algae, vegetation, scum, or
debris are accumulating on the pond surface and their location; whether burrowing animals or insects are
present; and the color of the ponds (e.g., dark sparkling green, dull green, y ellow, gray, tan, brown, etc.).
A copy of the entries made in the log during each month shall be submitted along with the monitoring
report the following month. Where the operation and maintenance manual indicates remedial action is
necessary, the Discharger shall briefly explain in the transmittal what action was taken or is scheduled to
be taken.


MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND BLM
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -2-

SLUDGE MONITORING

When sludge is removed from the disposal ponds, but prior to disposal, a composite sample shall be
collected and analyzed on a dry weight basis for Total Solids (%), nitrogen (total, NH 4-N, and NO 3-N),
total phosphorus, total potassium, and totals of specific metals (i.e., Pb, Zn, Cu, Ni, Cd, and Ag).
Analysis of soluble concentration of these specific metal shall also be included. Analytical results shall
be submitted to the Executive Officer within 60 days of sludge removal. If final disposal is by land
application, a technical report analyzing application rates and procedures relative to California
Department of Health Services’ Proces s Design Manual for Land Application of Municipal Sludges and
Title 23, California Code of Regulations, Section 2511(f), shall be completed and submitted to the
Executive Officer for approval. The report shall be prepared by a California registered civil engineer
experienced in wastewater treatment and disposal facility design.

REPORTING

Monthly monitoring data shall be reported in monthly monitoring reports. Monthly reports shall be
submitted to the Board by the 1st day of the second month following sa mpling . Annual monitoring
reports shall be submitted by 1 February of each year .

In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date,
the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a
manner that illustrates clearly whether the Discharger complies with waste discharge requirements.

If the Discharger monitors any pollutant at the locations designated herein more frequently than is required
by this Order, the results of such monitoring shall be included in the discharge monitoring report.

The Discharger may also be requested to submit an annual report to the Board with tabular and graphical
summaries of the monitoring data obtained during the previous year. Any such request shall be made in
writing. The report shall discuss any corrective actions taken or planned that may be needed to bring the
discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.

By 1 February of each year , the Di scharger shall submit a written report to the Executive Officer
containing the following:

a. The names, certificate grades, and general responsibilities of all persons in charge of wastewater
treatment and disposal.

b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding wastewater disposal for
emergency and routine situations.

c. The most recent annual water quality report prepared by West Kern Water District for the City of
Maricopa municipal drinking water supply.
d. The results of an annual evaluat ion conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND BLM
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -3-

All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in Standard
Provision B.3.

The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.


 Ordered by:
 GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer

 16 June 2000
 (Date)

CS:fmc:6/16/00
INFORMATION SHEET


ORDER NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND
UNITED STATES BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY

The City of Maricopa operates a wastewater disposal facility (Facility) on a 5.77 -acre parcel one mile
east of Maricopa on Road 166 and along a dirt road, 0.25 mile north of Road 166. The land on which
the Facility is located is leased from the United States Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The City
has applied with BLM to purchase 15.8 acres on which the Facility is located. The City has indicated
that the parcel acquired from BLM may be used for future expansion of the Facility and that it expects to
gain legal ownership of the property within 12 to 18 months.

The Facility currently serves 10 businesses, one school, and 275 households. The remaining households
in the City are served by septic systems. The discharge is currently regulated by Waste Discharge
Requirements Order No. 76 -252, which limits the discharge flow to 30,000 gallons per day (gpd). Until
recently, the Facility’s discharge flow was not metered, but estimated. During a 16 -day period in
February 2000, the City measured the flows entering the Facility as averaging about 45,600 gallons per
day. The current discharge flow rate, while in excess of that prescribed by Order No. 76 -252,
apparently has not caused any capacity problems for the Facility. The City has reportedly experienced
little growth during the past decade and reportedly does not expect much growth in the near future.

The influent is prima rily domestic waste which, transported via sewer lines, is discharged into one of
two disposal ponds without any primary or secondary treatment. The City reportedly intends to operate
one pond as an aerated pond, and plans to install an aerator as soon as possible. The disposal ponds
encompass 2.25 acres and the Facility is fenced and posted with warning signs.

Oil extraction activity around Maricopa has caused significant subsidence in the area, according to BLM.
 Therefore, the Order includes a provisi on that all wastewater must be maintained within the designated
disposal area at all times. Any pond failure caused by subsidence would be a violation of this Order and
the City must take all necessary steps to avoid such occurrence.

Average annual rainfall in the area is 6.5 inches and annual average pan evaporation rate is 63 inches.
Soils at the disposal area consist of a recent alluvial fan deposit composed primarily of laterally
discontinuous lenses of low permeability silts, sands, and clays. Area groundwater is first encountered at
about 200 feet below ground surface and is of poor mineral quality. Source water for residential and
commercial use is imported from West Kern County Water District. Due to the poor quality of area
groundwater and to the need to import potable water to the area, there is little if any agricultural land use
in the general vicinity.

The ponds have the potential to create odor nuisance conditions. Therefore, the Order requires that no
objectionable odors from the ponds s hould be perceivable beyond the disposal area. Beyond this area
the public is present and might be affected. To operate without problems, the ponds should have near


INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. 5 -00-153
CITY OF MARICOPA AND BLM
MARICOPA WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
 -2-
neutral pH and normal algae growth. A pH less than 6.5 indicates acidic conditions and greater than 8.5
indicates basic conditions, too extreme for effective operation. The Order requires that the ponded water
have a pH between 6 and 9.

Ponded water creates a potential for mosquitoes to breed and create vector nuisances. The Order has
requirements on pond maintenance such that this threat is minimized. Also, in the interest of preventing
overflow conditions or failure of bank embankments, the Order requires the ponds to have adequate
capacity with a minimum of two feet of freeboard.

This Order includes groundwater limitations based on the Basin Plan.

The City has removed sludge once from each pond during the past 15 years. Historically, the sludge was
tested and disposed of on -site. The Order requires the City to monitor sludge qua lity prior to disposal.

The permitted discharge is consistent with the antidegradation provisions in State Water Resources
Control Board Resolution No. 68 -16. The discharge will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated
use of underlying groundwater as a source of industrial supply. If the Board determines that the
discharge causes nuisance or water quality degradation, this Order will be reopened for consideration the
addition of numerical