wastewater treatment and disposal area.

7. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification B.6, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not be less than 1.0
mg/l.

8. The discharge to land (Discharge 002) shall remain within the designated disposal area
at all times.

9. The pH of Discharge 001 and of Discharge 002 shall not be less than 6.0 or greater
than
 9.0 pH units.

10. Freeboard in WWTF ponds shall never be less than two feet (measured vertically to the
lowest point of potential overflow).

11. Storage reservoirs and treatment ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes.
In particular:

a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are not
created around the perimeter of the water surface.

 b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or herbicides.

 c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -00-080
TAFT, TAFT HEIGHTS, FORD CITY, AND USDOE
TAFT WWTF
KERN COUNTY
 -9-
12. Public contact with wastewater sha ll be precluded through such means as fences and signs, or
other acceptable alternatives.

13. There shall be no standing water in the designated disposal area 48 hours after each
wastewater application.

14. Wastewater discharged to the designated disposa l area shall be managed to prevent runoff
onto adjacent properties not owned or controlled by the Discharger.

15. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes shall not be
used to store effluent

16. While discharging effl uent to the designated disposal area, the following setback distances
shall be observed:

 Setback Distance (feet) To
 25 Property line
 30 Public Roads
 100 Irrigation wells/drainage courses
 150 Domestic wells

17. The designated disposal area shall be posted in areas accessible to the public with
conspicuous signs that present the following wording (or its equivalent) in size that can be
clearly read by the public: “NO TRESPASSING – WASTEWATER – DO NOT DRINK.”
The signs will have the univers al “Do not drink” cross out underneath the wording (see
Attachment B).

C. Solids Disposal Specifications

1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes and the ponds shall
be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Consolidated
Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste , as set forth in
Title 27, CCR, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 20005 et seq.

2. Any proposed change in previously approved sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported
to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.

3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal and state laws and
regulations and should comply with federal permitting requireme nts and technical standards
 included in 40 CFR Part 503. If the State Water Resources Control Board and the regional



WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -00-080
TAFT, TAFT HEIGHTS, FORD CITY, AND USDOE
TAFT WWTF
KERN COUNTY
 -10-
water quality control boards assume primacy to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR
503, this Order may be reopened to incorpor ate appropriate time schedules and technical
standards contained in 40 CFR 503.

D.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

