FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Los Coyotes WRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant located at 16515
Piuma Avenue , Cerritos, CA, 90703 , currently receives wastewater from Alhambra,
Arcadia, Artesia, Bellflower, Cerritos, City of Industry, Downey, El Monte, Irwindale,
La Cañada, Flintridge, La Habra Heights, La Mirada, Montebello, Monterey Park,
Norwalk, Pasadena, Pico Rivera, Rosemead, San Gabriel, San Marino, Santa Fe
Springs, South El Monte, South Pasadena, and Whittier . The wastewater is a
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021 -0142
LOS COYOTES WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0054011
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted Order: 12/9/2021) F-5mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated
pursuant to 40 CFR part 403. Los Coyotes WRP has a design capacity of 37.5 MGD
and serves an estimated population of 360,000 people .
The Los Coyote s WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the
JOS. The JOS incorporates the Los Coyotes WRP and six other wastewater
treatment plants, which are connected by more than 1,200 miles of interceptors and
trunk sewers. The upstream treatmen t plants ( Whittier Narrows , Pomona, La
Cañada, Long Beach, and San Jose Creek) are connected to the Joint Water
Pollution Control Plant (JWPCP ) located in Carson. This system allows for the
diversion of influent flows into or around each upstream plant if so desired . Diverted
flows not treated by upstream plants are ultimately treated at the JWPCP.
2.1.2. The Discharger has undertaken a full eva luation of local limits for the JOS, which is
an interconnected system consisting of the Long Beach, Los Coyotes, Pomona, San
Jose Creek and Whittier Narrows WRPs, as well as JWPCP, and La Canada WRP
(non-industrial). Due to the interconnectedness of this system, it is appropriate to
formally evaluate local limits for all treatment plants on the system at one time so
that conditions throughout the system can be considered. The Districts have
reviewed the discharge limitations in the NPDES permits issued to these facilities
and have found that changes to existing local limits are not necessary to meet the
limitations. The most recent local limits evaluation was submitted to the Los Angeles
Water Board in April 2018, following the NPDES permit adoption of the Joint Water
Pollution Control Plant. In that evaluation, JOS found that the existing limits were
fully protective of the JOS system . However, a re -evaluation will be required
following the renewal of the NPDES permit issued to JWPCP.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Los Coyotes WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, inert media filtration, chloramination, and dechlorination . Treated
wastewater that is not conveyed to direct reuse is dechlorinated prior to discharge in
order to remove chlorine residual. Treated wastewater discharged to San Gabriel
River is dechlorinated .
2.1.4. Hypochlorite and ammonia are used as disinfectants at the Los Coyotes WRP.
Disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters.
Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact
chamber. Prior to discharge, sulfur dioxide and/or sodium bisulfite is added to the
treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
2.1.5. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal and are regulated by Order Number R4-2017-0180 (NPDES
Number CA0053813). Attachment C is a schematic of the Los Coyotes WRP
waste water flow .
2.1.6. The P ermittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
denitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation si nce
September 2003 .
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021 -0142
LOS COYOTES WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0054011
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted Order: 12/9/2021) F-62.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
There are no planned upgrades proposed by the Permittee .
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021 -0142
LOS COYOTES WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0054011
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted Order: 12/9/2021) F-83.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serv es as WDR s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California
Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to
section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted
by the U .S. EPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section
13370). It shall serve as a n NPDES permit authorizing the Discharger to discharge into
waters of the United States at the discharge location s described in Table 2 subject to the
WDRs in this Order .
3.2. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from
the provisions of chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 2110 0) of division 13 of
the Public Resources Code.
3.3. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
3.3.1. Water Quality Control Plan
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Los Angeles Region (Basin Plan) designates
beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives (WQOs), and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters
addressed through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan.
Beneficial uses applicable to San Gabriel River and San Gabriel River Estuary are as
follows :
Table F -4. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses –