FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Sa n Jose Creek WRP currently receives wastewater from the Cities of Arcadia,
Azusa, Baldwin Park, Bradbury, Industry, Covina, Diamond Bar, Duarte, El Monte,
Glendora, Irwindale, La Puente, La Verne, Monrovia, Pasadena, Pomona,
Rosemead, San Dimas, San Gabrie l, San Marino, Sierra Madre, Temple City,
Walnut, West Covina, as well as some unincorporated areas. The wastewater is a
mixture of domestic, industrial, and commercial wastewater that is pre -treated
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403. San Jose Creek WRP, i ncludi ng the East and West
plants, has a design capacity of 100 mgd and serves an estimated population of
990,000 people.
The San Jose Creek WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the
Joint Outfall System (JOS) . The JOS incorporates t he San Jose Creek WRP and six
other wastewater treatment plants, which are connected by more than 1,200 miles of
interceptors and tru nk sewers . The upstream treatment plants (Whittier Narrows,
Pomona, La Cañada, Long Beach, Los Coyotes, and San Jose Creek) are
connected to the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant (JWPCP) located in Carson .
Thi
s system allows for the diversion of influent flows into or around each upstream
plant if so desired . Diverted flows not treated by upstream plants are ultimately
treated at the JWPCP.
2.1.2. The Dis charger has undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for the JOS, which is
an
interconnected system consisting of the Long Beach, Los Coyotes, Pomona, San
Jose Creek and Whittier Narrows WRPs, as well as JWPCP, and La Can ada WR P
(non-industrial). Due to the interconnectedness of this system, it is appropriate to
formally evaluate local limits for all treatment plants on the system at one time so
that conditions throughout the system can be considered. The Districts have
reviewed the discharge limitations in the NPDES permits issued to these facilities
and have found that changes to existing local limits are not necessary to meet the
limitations. The most recent local limits evaluation was submitted on April 26, 2018 ,
findin g that the existing limits were fully protective of the JOS system. However, a
re-evaluation will be required following the renewal of the NPDES permit issued to
JWPCP.
2.1.3. The Facility consists of East and West WRPs. The two WRPs independently utilize
the sa me process trains which include influent pumping, primary sedimentation,
activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification/denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, coagulation, inert medi a filtration, chlorination for disinfection, and
dechlorinati on. Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant at the Facility. The
disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters .
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4 -2021 -0131
SAN JOSE CR EEK WRP NPDES NUMBER CA0053911
ATTACHMENT F- FACT SHEET F-7
ADO
PTED 10/14/2021Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact
chamber . Prior to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to
remove residual chlorine . The Facility a lso has a backup sodium bisulfite
dechlor
ination system. Treated wastewater dis charged to San Gabriel River and
San Jose Creek is dechlorinated. Effluent from the Facility can be discharged to
various outfalls as described below in Section 2.2. The water quality is the same to
all of the outfalls.
2.1.4 The Permittee constructed a bi ological nutrient removal system with nitrogen de -
nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin
Plan objectives . The system was completed and has been in opera tion since June
2003.
2.1.5 No facilities are provided for so lids processing at the plant . Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal under Order Number R4-2017-0180 (NPDES Number
CA0053813 ).
2.2. Discharge P oints and Receiving W aters
The Facility discharges ter tiary-treated effluent via four discharge points (001, 001A, 001B,
and 003) to the San Gabriel River. Tertiary -treated effluent is also discharged via one
discharge point (002) to San Jose Creek, a tributary of the San Gabriel River ( Attachment
B2). Discha rge Points 002 and 003 are the exclusive outfalls for the East and West plants,
respectively, but effluent is not limited to those two outfalls. Discharge from the East and
West plants can combine and be conveyed to Discharge Points 001, 001A, 001B or the
San Gabriel River Spreading Grounds (SGRSG) using a pipeline that runs parallel to the
San Gabriel River. The system is designed such that effluent can be discharged either
from only one discharge point or multiple discharge p oints simultaneously. Water in the
SGRSG can be conveyed to the Rio Hondo Spreading Grounds through an
interconnecting pipeline. Discharge Points 004 and 005 are for future discharge into the
San Gabriel River upstream from the Facility in the vicinity of the S anta Fe dam. All of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
In the ROWD for the previous permit Order R4 -2015 -0070 , the discharger notified the Los
Angele s Water Board that two discharge outfalls, Discharge Points 004 and 005 , would be
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4 -2021 -0131
SAN JOSE CR EEK WRP NPDES NUMBER CA0053911
ATTACHMENT F- FACT SHEET F-16
ADO
PTED 10/14/2021used for the IRRP groundwater recharge project managed by USGVMD . The Discharger
contacted USGVMD before submitting the ROWD for this permit to get a status update on
the pro ject. USGVMD wants to keep the proposed discharge points in the ROWD because
construction on the project has not yet begun. As described in the previous permit, u p to
10,000 acre -feet per year (8.93 mgd) would flow through a nine -mile pipeline to Discharge
Point s 004 and 00 5 ne ar the Santa Fe Dam as shown in Attachment B1. A map of the
IRRP area and proposed outfalls is shown in Attachment B5. Previous discharge locations
associated with this project were described in Order R4-2009 -0078 but have not been
constructed to date . Discharge from the IRRP at proposed future locations is contingent
upon the issuance of Waste Discharge Requirements (W DRs) for the Permittee and other
project sponsors in addition to the Upper San Gabriel Valley Municipal Water District . The
Los Angeles County Department of Public Works (LACDPW) operates and manages the
river channel and pipelines used to transport suitably treated wastewater to the San
Gabriel River. The Main San Gabriel Basin Watermaster, a special state agency, is
charged with the resp onsibility of replenishing and monitoring the groundwater quality of
the San Gabriel Groundwater Basins. Discharge Points 004 and 005 are expected to
deliver advanced treated water to the IRRP and are included in this Order. Recycled wate r
use from San Jos e Creek WRP is permitted for non -potable applications under Order Nos.
87-50 and 97 -072. However, neither Order permits the recycled water use for groundwater
replenishment through surface application for the proposed project area , as reg ulated in
DDW’s Groundwater Reuse and Replenishment using Recycled Water adopted in June of
2014 . Discharge from such outfalls cannot begin until the DDW has approved a Title 22
Engineering Report and the WRR has been adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board . In
the event that this project goes forward, depending upon the final design and the exact
location of spreading, this NPDES permit may need to be revised according ly.
3.