FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Long Beach WRP currently receives wastewater from Artesia, Bellflower,
Cerritos, Hawaiian Gardens, Lakewood, Long Beach, and Signal Hill. The
wastewater is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated
pursuant to 40 CFR part 403. The Long Beach WRP has a design capacity of 25
mgd and serve s an estimated population of 229,000 people.
The Long Beach WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the
JOS. The JOS incorporates the Long Beach WRP and six other wastewater
treatment plants, which are connected by more than 1,200 mil es of interceptors and
trunk sewers. The upstream treatment plants (Whittier Narrows, Pomona, La
Cañada, Long Beach, Los Coyotes, and San Jose Creek) are connected to the Joint
Water Pollution Control Plant (JWPCP) located in Carson. This system allows f or
the diversion of influent flows into or around each upstream plant if so desired .
Diverted flows not treated by upstream plants are ultimately treated at the JWPCP.
2.1.2. The Sanitation Districts have undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for th e
JOS, which is an interconnected system consisting of the Long Beach, Los Coyotes,
Pomona, San Jose Creek and Whittier Narrows WRPs, as well as JWPCP, and La
Canada WRP (non -industrial). Due to the interconnectedness of this system, it is
appropriate to f ormally evaluate local limits for all treatment plants on the system at
one time so that conditions throughout the system can be considered. The
Sanitation Districts have reviewed the discharge limitations in the NPDES permits
issued to these facilities a nd have found that changes to existing local limits are not
necessary to meet the limitations. The most recent local limits evaluation was
submitted to the Los Angeles Water Board on April 26, 2018, finding that the existing
limits were fully protective of the JOS system. However, a re -evaluation will be
required following the renewal of the NPDES permit issued to JWPCP.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Long Beach WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and den itrification (NDN), coagulation,
secondary sedimentation, inert media filtration, chloramination (reactions between
sodium hypochlorite and ammonia) for disinfection, and dechlorination. Treated
wastewater discharged to Coyote Creek is dechlorinated .
2.1.4 . Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are used as disinfectants at the Long Beach
WRP in a process known as sequential chlorination. Sodium hypochlorite is added
to the treated effluent prior to tertiary filtration to destroy bacteria, pathogens, and
viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. This is followed by an additional
chloramination after filtration, to minimize the time that the effluent is subject to
disinfection with free chlorine and thus control formation of trihalomethanes. Prior to
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2022-0032
LONG BEACH WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0054 119
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F -6
Adopted: 2/10/2022discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual
chlorine. The Facility also has a backup sodium bisulfite dechlorination system.
2.1.5. The Discharger has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with NDN in
order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The system
was completed and has been in operation since 2003 .
2.1.6. Sewage solids separated from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for
conveyance to JWPCP for treatment and disposa l, under Order No. R4 -2017 -0180
(NPDES No. CA0053813) .
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
No planned physical alternations or additions to the Facility is proposed by the
Permittee .
3.