existing Facility is designed to treat an average flow of 1.0 million gallons per day (mgd)
and a peak flow of2.0 mgd. Currently, the average influent flow is 0.3 mgd of domestic
wastewater. The present treatment processes include an influent pump station, head works
consisting ofa parshall flume, mechanical bar screen, and communitors, secondary treatment
consisting. ofone extended aeration activated sludge basin, (split into two cells) two clarifiers
and a return activated sludge (RAS)/waste activated sludge (WAS) pump station and tertiary
treatment facilities consisting ofa filter influent pump station, a chemical mixing flocculation
tank, upflow sand filtration filters, disinfection in a chlorine contact chamber, a tertiary
eflluent storage pond and chemical storage facilities for alum, ploymer and chlorine.
7. Disposal and Recycling Area
• 8. Secondary treated wastewater, in excess ofrecycled water use demand, is disposed in seven
percolation ponds. Normally, tertiary treated effluent is delivered to the Central Park Lake
for storage as a recreational non-contact impoundment and subsequent irrigation ofCentral
Park and the City's Municipal Course (Tierra del Sol). The disposal and recycling sites are
shown in Attachment "A", which is made part ofthis Order. The percolation ponds are also
used for disposal when the tertiary facilities are unable to meet recycled water use criteria.
Sludge Treatment and Disposal
The WAS is conveyed to 10 lined sand type sludge drying beds for dewatering. The sludge
drying beds, with a total area of 15,000 square feet, are located east ofthe percolation ponds.
Dried sludge is removed and disposed at an authorized site, currently a landfill.
9. Expansion
Wastewater from a newly constructed prison will be conveyed to the Facility. In order to
accommodate the increased flows from the new prison, the Discharger is implementing a
Facility expansion. The expansion involves modifications and improvements ofthe individual
unit processes to achieve a design flow of 1.5 mgd and peak flow of3.0. mgd.
Based on a recommended capacity evaluation report, the following upgrades are proposed:
a. replace the influent pumps to be capable ofpumping the peak 3.0 mgd flow;
b. . upgrading the power section ofthe aeration basin aerators;
c. adding new RASIW AS pumps;
• d. adding nine similar sludge drying beds with an increase of27,000 square feet to an
approximate total of42,000 square feet drying area;
CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY -3 - BOARD ORDER NO. 6-00-94

• WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY WDID NO. 6B150118001
KemCounty
e. replacing the filter influent pumps;
f adding two new filter cells for a total operating arrangement of 5+1. Since the
existing filters can handle 1.1 mgd and current flow is 0.3 mgd, the new filters will be
added when average daily flows are 0.88 mgd (80% capacity); and
g. increase the chlorine contact chamber when average daily flows are 0.88 mgd.
Until items f and g (above) are completed to reach the total 1.5 mgd capacity in the tertiary
treatment train, secondary treated flows in excess of 1.1 mgd will be disposed in the percolation
ponds. Construction completion is expected to take approximately one year or less.
10. Authorized Disposal Recycling Sites
The percolation ponds are the only authorized disposal sites and Central Park Lake, Central
Park, and the Tierra del Sol Golf Course are the only authorized recycling sites for
wastewater effluent. .
11. Recycling Regulations
• The State Department ofHealth Services has established statewide recycling criteria for the
use ofrecycled water for landscape irrigation as specified in Chapter 3, Division 4, Title 22 of
the California Code ofRegulations.
In accordance with Section 13523 ofthe California Water Code, the Regional Board
consulted with and received the recommendations ofthe State Department ofHealth Services
concerning recycling requirements which are incorporated within this Order.
12. Site Geology
The Facility is located in the Fremont Valley in the northwest portion ofthe Mojave Desert.
Fremont Valley is a deep structural depression in the overlap ofthe east and west strands of
the Garlock fault. More than 3,200 feet ofunconsolidated and moderately consolidated
sediments underlie Fremont Valley with the thickness ofunconsolidated sediments changing
locally across faults. In general, the upper soils ofthe Discharger's area consist ofa thick
alluvial sequence ofgravel, sand, silt, and clay, which have eroded from the surrounding hills.
The thick alluvial sequence within the site vicinity is underlain by Tertiary volcanic and
sedimentary rocks which are underlain by a pretertiary basement complex ofgranitic rock.
The subsurface conditions consist ofloose to medium-dense silt and sand with gravel.
•

,f
CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO. 6-00-94

• WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY WOlD NO. 6B150118001
KemCounty
13. Site Hydrology
Surface drainage flows to Koehn Dry Lake which is about 10 miles north-northeast ofthe
Facility. The underlying ground water aquifer is generally unconfined, with ground water
. movement toward the Koehn Dry Lake. The Koehn Hydrologic Area receives subsurface
inflow from the Antelope Valley to the south and east. Since there is no known outflow, the
ground water basin is considered to be closed. Depth to ground water at the Facility is
approximately 200 to 250 feet.
14.