wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. For the purpose of this Order, the U.S.
Army is referred to as the "Discharger" and the Sierra Army Depot Wastewater Disposal
Facilities as the "Facility"
2. Permit History
The Regional Board originally established waste discharge requirements for the Facility
under Board Order No. 6-71-23, adopted on July 19~ 1971. The Regional Board updated
Board Order No. 6-71-23 by adopting Board Order No. 6-84-22 on February 9, 1984.
3. Reason for Action
The Regional Board is updating WDRs as part of an ongoing program to periodically
review and revise requirements to reflect current regul'atory policies, and to reflect
modifications and improvements which have been made to the wastewater treatment and
disposal facilities.
4. Facility Location
The facility is located in portions of Section 30, T27N, R17E and Section 35, T27N,
R16E, MDB&M, as shown on Attachment "A" which is made a part of this Order. The
• site lies within the Herlong Hydrologic Area of the Susanville Hydrologic Unit and
within the Honey Lake Valley Ground Water Basin.
i .)U· , ~.
,. ,.
u.s. ARMY -SIERRA ARMY DEPOT -2­ BOARD ORDER NO. 6-01-25
WASTE WATER TREATlVIENT DISPOSAL WID NO. 6A18002000
• FACILITY
Lassen County
5. Facility Description
The Facility consists of two wastewater treatment and disposal facilities located in two
separate areas. The Cantonment Lagoons treat the majority of the wastewater flows' of up
to 0.160 mgd. The Warehouse Lagoons serve only the warehouse area with wastewater
flows up to 0.009 mgd. Wastewater treatment is in lined stabilization ponds forming the
lagoons. Treated wastewater from the Cantonment Lagoons is discharged to a
constructed wetland, with seasonal overflow from the wetland to a designated percolation
area. Treated wastewater from the Warehouse Lagoons is discharged to a designated
percolation area. Minor and intermittent flows from other areas on the Depot are handled
by septic tanks/leachfields. The population served is less than 1500 persons. When the
Herlong Sanitary Cooperative completes new wastewater treatment and disposal facilities
for the proposed Federal Prison, wastewater flows to the Cantonment Lagoons will be
directed to the new Herlong Utilities Cooperative's wastewater treatment facilities and
the Cantonment Lagoons will be abandoned.
6. Facility Capacity
• The Cantonment Lagoons have a design flow-rate of 0.160 MGD. The Warehouse
Lagoons have a design flow-rate of 0.009 MGD. Flows to the facility are currently at
approximately 80% of capacity.
7. Authorized Disposal Areas
The designated disposal site for effluent from the C(J.ntonment Lagoons is the constructed
wetland adjacent to the lagoons, and the percolation area adjacent to the constructed
wetland. The designated disposal site for effluent from the Warehouse Lagoons is the
percolation area adjacent to the lagoons. These are the only authorized disposal sites for
the Cantonment Lagoons and the Warehouse Lagoons.
8. Water Quality Control Plan for the Lahontan Region
The Regional Board adopted the Water Quality Control Plan for the Lahontan Region
(Basin Plan) which became effective on March 31, 1995. This Order implements the
Basin Plan, as amended.
9. Geology
The Facility lies in a basin-fill valley at the junction of the Sierra Nevada Province and
• the Modoc Plateau. The valley is bordered by the Skedaddle and Amedee mountains to
the northeast, the Fort Sage and Virginia mountains to the southeast, the Diamond
, I • , ,
u.s. ARMY -SIERRA ARMY DEPOT -3­ BOARD ORDER NO. 6-01-25
WASTE WATER TREATMENT DISPOSAL WDID NO. 6A18002000 • FACILITY
Lassen County
Mountains to the south and southwest, and the Shaffer and Antelope mountains to the
north. The substrata at the authorized disposal sites consist of unconsolidated and semi­
consolidated lacustrine and fluvial deposits of clay, silt, sand and gravel. Information is
not available to determine the percolation rate. Borings indicate that the subsurface
consists of silty sands, clayey sands and gravelly sands.
10. Hydrology
The Facility is located on mildly sloping terrain witQ.in an alluvial valley at an elevation
of approximately 4000 feet. The annual rainfall in the area is approximately ten inches.
Ephemeral drainage channels exist in the area that may be potential