Existing Facility Capacity
The TTSA is capable oftransporting, treating and disposing ofa maximum 7-day average
municipal wastewater flow, during the summer months of7.4 MGD.
•

TAHOE-TRUCKEE -3­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2002-0030
SANITAnON AGENCY WDIDNO.6A290011000
Nevada County • 9. Description ofandCapacityofProposed Expansion
The proposed expansion ofthe Facility will be capable oftransporting, treating and disposing
ofa maximum 7-day average flow during the summer months of9.6 MGD. The proposed
expansion will include numerous replacement, upgraded, modified and additional
components and units to provide additional capacity and improve treatment, as described as
Alternative 3 in the Draft Project Report dated April 1999 and modified by the Updated
Project Report dated January 2002. The proposed expansion will also replace the existing
ion-exchange nitrogen removal system with a Biological Nitrogen Removal (BNR) system
for the full 9.6 MGD capacity ofthe enlarged plant. The existing ion exchange process shall
only be operated ifthere is a process upset during the startup ofthe new BNR process.
Following a three-month period ofsuccessful operation ofthe new BNR process, the ion
exchange process will only be operated as a standby unit for emergencies. Additional
treatment provided by the Soil Aquifer Treatment (SAT) process will also be acknowledged.
The expansion will also incorporate enlargement and improvements to the Truckee River
Interceptor (TRl) and the emergency storage facilities at the former TSD Sewage Treatment
Lagoons.
The proposed expansion also identifies additional improvements which will not be
constructed immediately, but rather at a later date when needed. Among these improvements
are an additional disposal field and a spray irrigation system, which will require subsequent
approval by the Regional Board. " • 10. Point ofEffluent Disposal
Planteffluent isdischarged to subsurface disposaltrenches, theboundaries ofwhichare
shown on Attachment "A", which is made a part ofthis Order. The disposal field is located
in a portion ofthe SE/4, Section 7, TI7N, R17E, MDB&M and are within the Truckee River
Hydrologic Unit.
A second disposal field will be constructed when ne~ded for additional disposal capacity.
The location ofthe proposed second disposal field is also shown on Attachment "A". A pilot
project operated in 1991 demonstrated the technical feasibility ofdisposing effluent by a
spray irrigation system from April through November. The proposed location ofa full-scale
effluent spray irrigation system is also shown on Attachment "A". The Discharger does not
intend to construct the full-scale effluent spray irrigation system until a later date when
needed to meet