wastewater
treatment and disposal facilities in accordance with the revised time schedule
established by Board Order No. 6-82-97. On September lO, 1987, the Board adopted
Board Order No. 6-87-97, which updated Board Order No. 6-74-128 and reflected
changes in wastewater quantity and treatment facilities.
3.. Reason for Action
The Board is updating the existing waste discharge requirements as part of a statewide
-.
 program to periodically update review and revise outdated Board Orders.

Additionally, the waste discharge requirements are being updated to reflect changes in

the design flow and treatment facilities.

• UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS BOARD ORDER NO. 6-93-72
MWTC WASTEWATER TREATMENT WDID NO. 6A260154101
FACILITY
Mono County
4. Facility Location
The facility is located in Pickel Meadow along Highway 108, approximately 11 miles
east of Sonora Pass and 20 miles north of town of Bridgeport in Mono County. The
facility is in the West Walker River Hydrologic Unit within the NW 1/4 of Section
24, T6N, R22E, MDB&M, as shown on Attachments "A" and "B", which are a part
of this Order.
5. Discharge Description
• The USMC proposes to upgrade the existing facilities which consist of a screen and
cominutor, a 27,000 gallon flow equalization tank, an activated sludge package
treatment plant, an aerobic sludge digester, a polishing pond, and five leachfields for
effluent disposal. The upgraded facilities will consist of a screen and cominutor, the
27,000 gallon flow equalization tank, three sequential batch reactors, a two-chamber
aerobic sludge digester, a sludge dewatering facility, and five leachfields. The
wastewater treatment facility will continue to be an activated sludge process, but one
that is more suited to highly variable flows. The facility will continue to treat
domestic wastewater that is generated from permanent training center facilities and the
upper and.lower camp areas. The facility will also treat wastewater from the shower
facilities, which has been discharged to a greywater leachfield in the past. A
permanent training center population of approximately 250 personnel and a transient
trainiiig center population of up to approximately 1,350 personnel contributes to the
wastewater flow. The facility will treat influent flows that range from a minimum
average daily flow of 0.014 mgd to a max:imum average daily flow of 0.140 mgd.
The facility is designed to treat a maximum instantaneous flow of 0.490 mgd. The
wastewater treatment facility design criteria for effluent quality before discharging to
the leachfield is as follows:
Parameter Maximum Concentration
Biological Oxygen Demand 30 mg!l
Suspended Solids 30 mg!l
Total Nitrogen as N 10 mg!l
6. Disposal Site
• The treated wastewater effluent is discharged to a series of five leachfields as shown
on Attachment "C", which is a part of this Order. Use of the leachfields will be
cycled so that a rest period is provided for each leachfield. The existing flows to the
leachfields ranges from approximately 0.006 mgd to 0.065 mgd. The future flows
will range from 0.014 mgd to 0.140 mgd. The calculated capacity of each leachfield
• <
• UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS BOARD ORDER NO. 6-93-72
MWTC WASTEWATER TREATMENT WDID NO. 6A260154101
FACILITY
Mono County
is approximately 33,000 gallons per day. Field studies indicate that each leachfield
may have an actual maximum hydraulic capacity of 50,100 gallons per day.. The
discrepancy between calculated capacity and field results may be explained by the
very coarse granular nature of the glacial outwash soils within the leachfield; These
soils have shown the ability to resist clogging and recover high permeability after a .
low flow resting cycle that occurs when troops, are not training at the training center.
The leachfields have been operating in this maimer (heavy dosing followed by low
flow periods) since 1985. The leachfields have had minor incidents of failure due to
injecting solids into the leachfields and not cycling the leachfields..The leachfields
currently have piezometers for monitoring leachfield saturation levels which will
improve leachfield operations.
7. Sludge Treatment and Disposal
Sludge will be periodically wasted from the three sequential batch reactors and
discharged into a two-chamber aerobic digester (converted existing wastewater
• . treatment facility). The aerobic digester will have a capacity of 59,000 gatlons
(36,000 gallons -existing step aeration cell, 23,000 gallons -existing aer6hic
digester). Solids concentration within the aerobic digester will range from one to two
percent and will allow 45 -90 days storage time. The digested sludge will be
dewatered on a Wedgewater filter bed system with the filtrate returning to the
wastewater influent stream. A combination of polymer injection and a positive
displacement sludge pump will allow approximately two pounds (dry weight) of
digested sludge to be applied per square foot of Wedgewater filtration bed area. The
dewatered sludge (25 -40 percent solids after 10 -12 days) will be disposed of at a
legal disposal site.
8. Authorized Disposal Site
The five leachfields are the only authorized sites for' wastewater disposal. The sludge
disposal site shall comply with all local, state and federal regulations regarding sludge
disposal. The authorized disposal sites for wastewater are located on federal lands
administered by the USFS, Toiyabe ,National Forest, Bridgeport Ranger District.
9. Site Geology
The soils fu the wastewater disposal sites are of glacial and alluvial origin. The upper
20 inches consist of gravelly sandy loam, loam and clay loam material. The
• substratum material below 20 inches consists of stratified alluvial sand and loamy
sand textures modified by 70 -80 percent gravel and cobbles. Recent field studies
indicate that percolation rates are approximately five minutes per inch.
• UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS -'"4~ BOARD ORDER NO. 6-93-72
MWTC WASTEWATER TREATMENT WDID NO.' 6A260154101
FACILITY
Mono County
10. Site Hydrology
Surface runoff in and around the facility flows into Silver Creek, which flows through
the training center approximately 100 yards east of the facility. Surface runoff also
flows into the West Walker River, which flows through Pickel Meadow,
approximately one-half to three-quarters of a mile south of the facility.
11. Site Hydrogeology
Recent monitoring has shown ground water, depth in the wastewater disposal sites to
range between 25 -30 feet below grade. Ground water flow is generally accepted to
be in the direction of the West Walker River which flows along the southern
boundary of Pickel Meadow.
12.