Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
Facility on March 14, 1988. The Department of Health and Human Services more
recently submitted additional information on December 7, 1994 regarding changes to
the Facility since 1988. For the purposes of this Order, The Washoe Tribe of Nevada
and California and the U.S. Bureau of Land Management are referred to as the
"Dischargers. "
2. Facility
The Woodfords Indian Colony Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Facility is the
facility from which the discharge occurs. For the purposes of this Order, the
Woodfords Indian Colony Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Facility is referred to
as the "Facility".
3. History of Previous Regulation by the Regional Board
The Regional Board previously established waste discharge requirements for the
Facility under Board Order No. 6-74-17, which was adopted on February 28, 1974,
and Board Order No. 6-88-85, which was adopted on June 6, 1988.
4. Reason for Action
The Regional Board is updating waste discharge requirements for the Facility as part
of a statewide program to periodically review and update waste discharge
requirements. The purpose of this Order is to incorporate changes in regulations and
• regulatory policies and update the requirements to reflect changes to the Facility.
5. Facility Location
The Facility is located five miles northeast of the town of Woodfords in Alpine
County, just off Diamond Valley Road in the western 1/2 of Section21, T.llN.,
R.20E., MDB&M, as shown on Attachment "A", which is made part of this Order.
\WOODFORDS INDIAN WWTF -2- BOARD ORDER NO. 6-95-21
Alpine County WDID NO. 6A020013000
6. Description of Facility and Discharge •
The Facility presently serves 62 homes, a community building, and a fire station.
Sewage from the collection system is treated and disposed of in a series of three lined
evaporation ponds. The current maximum estimated wastewater flow to the treatment
system is 15,100 gallons per day. Currently, the Facility bases wastewater flow on
the water consumption rate for the community. No community growth is anticipated.
Each of the three pond liners consist of 12 inches of compacted native material,
overlain by 6 inches of surficial clay soil, covered by 12 inches of rock rip rap. To
minimize percolation, the pond liners were designed for a maximum permeability of 1
x 10 -7 cm/sec.
7. Sludge Treatment and Disposal
A low volume of sludge remains in each pond after evaporation. Due to the
relatively large size of the ponds and the low volume of wastewater influent, there is
no need to remove the sludge for approximately 20 years.
8. Treatment and Disposal Area
• The three pond retention system is designed to operate in series. Raw sewage from
the community gravity flows from the collection system to the first pond which works
as primary treatment. The first pond, when full, overflows into the second pond
which further treats the wastewater. Then the second pond, when full, overflows into
the third pond which acts as final treatment for the wastewater that reaches it.
9. Authorized Disposal Site
The three evaporation ponds are the only authorized disposal sites for wastewater.
10. Site Geology
The site is located on the west slope of a small valley within the Carson Range
Mountains. The western half of the site slopes from the west to the east at a 5 to 10
percent gradient. The eastern half of the site is relatively flat. The total elevation
relief across the site is 30 feet. Sagebrush and Pinion Pines are the primary
vegetation. The geotechnical profile of the site consists of two stratas. The
uppermost strata consists of overburden sandy clays. The lower strata is andesitic
bedrock. The three evaporation ponds were underlain by highly permeable
decomposed andesite on top of fractured andesite and basalt, but are now lined with
compacted native soil and imported clay for a maximum permeability of 1 x 10-7
cm/sec. • 11. Site Hydrology
Surface runoff from the Facility site enters a seasonal drainage course and flows
northward approximately 2 1/2 miles before entering the West Fork of the Carson
River.
f i 110
"WOODFORDS INDIAN WWTF -3- BOARD ORDER NO. 6-95-21
Alpine County WOlD NO. 6A020013000
• 12. Site Hydrogeology
The ground water is of a high quality. Samples taken in the summer of 1994 showed
an electrical conductivity between 487 and 1052 umhos/cm. Nitrate and chloride
levels were low. The ground water level at the three monitoring wells near the ponds
was 17 to 34 feet below the natural ground elevation.
13.