wastewater treatment and disposal
ponds and artificial wetland is the facility from which the discharge occurs. For t~e
purposes of this Order, the Leavitt Lake Community Services District's wastewater
treatment and disposal facility is referred to as the "Facility". The Facility discharges
secondary treated domestic sewage effluent.
3. History of Previous Regulation by the Regional Board
.The Regional Board previously established waste discharge requirements for the
Facility under Board Order No. 6-72-26 which was adopted on March 30, 1972, and
revised by Regional Board Order No. 6-80-37 on April 10, 1980. .
4. Reason for Action
The Regional Board is updating waste discharge requirements for the Facility to
periodically review and update waste discharge requirements. The purpose of this
Order is to establish waste discharge requirements which reflect recent modifications
to the Discharger's treatment and disposal process, and to remove prohibitions relating
to percolation of wastewater in order to allow additional treatment by artificial
wetlands.
",. LEAVITT LAKE CSD WASTEWATER -2- BOARD ORDER NO. 6-96-18
TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES WDID NO. 6A180004501
•
 Lassen County

5.· Facility Location
The Facility is located approximately eight miles east of Susanville, California, in the
SE Y-t of the NW Y-t of Section 16, T29N, R13E, MDB&M, and within APN 117-260­
86-11, as shown on Attachment "A", which is made part of this Order.
6. Description of Facility and Discharge
Approximately 238 residences are served by the Facility which includes a collection
system, two small lift stations, and a wastewater disposal facility consisting of seven
evaporation disposal ponds (lined with synthetic liners) and an artificial wetland
disposal area. The current average wastewater flow to the Facility is approximately
0.072 mgd. The disposal ponds and artificial wetlandS are designed to treat and
dispose an average 0.096 mgd over a 12-month period.
7. Authorized Disposal Site
• The seven evaporation disposal ponds and the wetland disposal area are the only
authorized disposal sites for wastewater. These authorized disposal sites are located
on land owned by the Discharger. No disposal sites for sludge are authorized by these
waste discharge requirements.
8. Site Geology
The Facility lies within the Honey Lake Valley, a part of the Basin Range Geomorphic
Province, which extends into Nevada. It is bounded on the southwest by the Sierra
Nevada Geomorphic Province and to the north and west by volcanics of the Modoc
Plateau and Cascade Range Provinces.
9. Site Hydrology
The Facility is adjacent to an irrigation ditch and to Leavitt Lake; however, these
surface waters are not hydrologically connected to the site. The