FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Facility’s dry weather average flow rate is 0.20 mgd. The facility serves a
population of approximately 5,800 persons at Pepperdine University and the
community of Malibu Country Estates. All domestic wastewater generated by Pepperdine University is collected at the flow equalization station. The majority of the wastewater is sent to the Facility and any portion of wastewater that would exceed the permit requirements is sent to the Las Virgenes Municipal Water District
(Las Virgenes), Tapia Water Reclamation Facility (Tapia). Domestic wastewater generated by Malibu Country Estates flows directly to the Facility .
Under normal operation, the tertiary -treated effluent is not discharged into the
permitted discharge outfalls. A small portion of the tertiary -treated effluent is used for
the landscape irrigation at the Facility. The major portion of t he tertiary -treated
effluent from the Facility is diverted into the storage reservoirs with a total capacity of
8.4 million gallons for recycling and reuse at Pepperdine Universi ty. The recycled
water is then used for irrigation of approximately 141 acres of the approximately 282 developed acres of the Pepperdine University campus. Pepperdine University operates the storage reservoirs and the landscape irrigation facilities. The r euse of
the recycled water at the Facility and by Pepperdine University is regulated under a separate Waste Discharge Requirements and Water Recycling Requirements
(WDRs/WRRs) for County of Los Angeles Department of Public Works and
Pepperdine University, Malibu Campus, Order No. 00- 167, File No. 70- 060, CI -5689,
adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board on November 9, 2000.
Per 40 CFR 122.2, continuous discharge is defined as a discharge which occurs
without interruption throughout the operating hours of the Facility, except for
infrequent shutdowns for maintenance, process changes, or other similar activities. Based on this definition of continuous discharge and the following information
available at the time of this permit renewal, t he Los Angeles Water Boar d
determines that this Facility ’s discharge is a non- continuous discharge for the
following reasons :
a. The Facility has not discharged since 2005.
b. The Facility is prohibit ed to discharge during the summer , unless authorized in
writing by the Executive Officer (EO) upon demonstration of necessity under
emergency conditions described in section 3.10 of the waste discharge
requirements .
c. The Facility is al lowed to discharge up to 10 days during the wet season.
Discharges more than 10 days during the w et season (November 1 through April
15) require the EO approval.
d. During high wildfire risk periods, July through November, the Facility is allowed to discharge upon receiving a written authorization from the Executive Officer by demonstrating the emergency conditions described in sections 3.10.2 and 3.10.3
of the waste discharge requi rements are met.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS ORDER R4-2021- 0062
MALIBU MESA WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0059099

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted : 4/8/2021) F-5 2.1.2. The Facility provides primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment, with disinfection
by an ultraviolet system. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit
processes, operations, and/or equipment:
a. Primary Treatment : Primary treatment consists of a headwork with comminutor,
a bypass channel with bar screen . An influent flow meter is located after the
bypass channel.
b. Secondary Treatment : Secondary treatment consists of the Walker Process
packaged activated sludge plant that includes an aeration basin with coarse
bubble diffusers, two aeration blowers (one of which is a standby), an aerobic digester, and a secondary sedimentation basin. Return activated sludge and waste activated sludge is pumped by airlift pump.
c. Tertiary Treatment : Tertiary treatment is provided through coagulation, rapid
mix, flocculation, and sand filtration. Filtration consists of three continuous backwash Dynasand® filters. No chlorine is added to the system .
d. Disinfection : Disinfection is provided by four ultraviolet lamps in series.
e. Solid s Handling: The waste activated sludge is aerobically digested and
pumped to a centrifuge for partial thickening. The thickened, digested sludge is stored in a 10,000- gallon underground storage tank prior to hauling to the Donald
C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant located at 6100 Woodley Avenue, Van Nuys,
California .
f. Operational Emergencies: In the event of upsets or other operational
emergencies at the Facility, wastewater from Pepperdine University can be
pumped to Tapia for treatment under an agreement between Pepperdine
University and Las Virgenes. The wastewater from Malibu Country Estates can be diverted to the sludge storage tank and hauled to the Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant for treatment. In the event of a power failure, the Facility has a
standby diesel -powered generator onsite to prevent the discharge of raw or
inadequately treated sewage.
g. Laboratory Waste Handling: All laboratory waste generated by Pepperdine
University is stored in 55-gallon drums and hauled offsite to a legal point of
disposal.
h. Effluent Pump Station : The tertiary -treated effluent with UV disinfection is
discharged to the Pepperdine University under normal conditions and/or Marie
Canyon Creek under emergency conditions by the Effluent Pump Station.
Effluent samples are pulled from Effluent Monitoring Station Eff 001 located at
the end of UV chamber and before the E ffluent Pump Station.
2.2. Discharge P oints and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to upgrade the facility with a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) that is capable of reducing the amount of nitrogen compounds including ammonia from the
effluent discharge to meet discharge requirements . The Project is currently underway
with an anticipated design completion in early 2022. Construction will occur in multiple phases to keep the plant in service during construction. The new treatment process is expected to be operational in 202 6 after the NPDES permit is renewed with the new
treatment process . The Discharger shall submit a ROWD to the Los Angles Water
Board, which includes the planned physical alterations or additions to the Facility , prior
to the expiration date of this Order or prior to discharging with the new treatment
process , whichever is sooner .
3.