DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Facility is located at 536 Barbara Worth Road, Calexico, California 92231,
approximately one mile east of the Calexico city limits, near the intersection of State Route
98 and Barbara Worth Road in Imperial County. The Facility is operated by the United
States Border Patrol (USBP), a component within Customs and Border Protection. The
current wastewater disposal method on site is tank and haul, where wastewater is stored
in septic tanks and are hauled away to a wastewater treatment plant. The Assessor's
Parcel Number is 059-190-19. The Township and Range are a portion of Tract 61, Section
9, Township 17 South, Range 15 East San Bernardino Meridian. The Latitude is
32.689499 °N and the Longitude is 115.430999 °W.
The current wastewater disposal method is outdated and inadequate to support
operational requirements at the Facility. The Discharger plans to expand the onsite
wastewater treatment system (OWTS) with an advanced onsite wastewater treatment
facility and an evaporation pond. The new system will be capable of treating 5,000 gallons
per day (gpd) of primarily domestic wastewater generated by employees and detainees
at the Facility. Minor wastewater flows of 300 gpd to 500 gpd include membrane
backwash from potable water treatment system consisting of a membrane filtration
system, ultraviolet disinfection units and hypochlorite injection. The waste stream will also
include 300 gpd of vehicle wash water, which is treated by an oil/dust separator prior to
discharging to a septic tank. The biofiltration will be installed north of the Administration
Building, east of the Alamitos Canal as shown on Attachment 1. The Facility is located
in a remote area with no access to municipal water or wastewater systems as shown in
Attachment 2. The property is relatively flat, at an elevation of 15 to 20 feet above mean
sea level (MSL). The site is in an area of minimal flood hazard, Zone X, and not subject
to a 1 DO-year flood event, as defined by FEMA.
The expansion to the OWTS will use a biofiltration system that uses earthworms and
microbial processes to provide secondary treatment to the wastewater. The system
consists of a bed of wood shavings underlain by drain rock and an effluent recovery
system. The biofiltration system uses an industry-specific mix of worms and bacteria to
achieve maximum reduction efficiencies on parameters such as Biochemical Oxygen
Demand (BOD); total suspended solids (TSS); fats, oils, and grease (FOG); total
Nitrogen; ammonia; and phosphorous. The burrowing worms create air channels, digest
suspended solids, and can achieve densities of 12,000 worms per cubic yard. The worm
beds are not in direct sunlight and include a solar cooling fan. Wastewater is screened
and adjusted for pH before being intermittently sprinkled over the surface of the bed. The
drain rock layer has passive vents.
The process, shown in Attachment 3, is similar to a recirculating gravel filter. The
recirculating gravel filter consists of a sprinkler system of intermittent application to a bed
of pea gravel underlain by drain rock. The hydraulic loading rates for recirculating gravel
filters range from 3 to 5 gallons per day per square foot (gpd/ft2). The BOD loading rates
for recirculating gravel filters range from 87 to 348 lb/acre-day, which is similar to low-rate
trickling filters.
Notice of Applicability 3 December 13, 2019
Calexico Border Patrol Station WWTP
The treated wastewater will be conveyed to an adjacent evaporation pond. The pond has
a water surface area of 1 acre and a capacity of 512,000 gallons, at 2 feet deep, with 2
feet of freeboard. The existing septic tank will remain onsite and provide primary solids
removal prior to treatment in the biofiltration unit. Sludge and solid waste from the
treatment facility will be periodically hauled away. The Water Balance calculation
performed shows that the size of the pond is sufficient to accommodate a daily loading of
5,000 gpd. Best practices will be observed to minimize objectionable odors, minimize
weeds and algae growth, and prevent breeding of mosquitos. •
REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS
With respect to groundwater quality objectives, the Water Quality Control Plan for the
Colorado River Basin Region (Basin Plan) states that the Regional Water Board's goal is
to maintain the existing water quality of all non-degraded groundwater basins. However,
in most cases ground water pumped generally returns to the basin after use with an
increase in mineral concentrations, such as total dissolved solids (TDS), nitrates, etc.
Under these circumstances, the Regional Water Board's objective is to minimize the
quantities of contaminants reaching any groundwater basin. Groundwater in the area of
the discharge has a municipal (MUN) beneficial use designation. The Basin Plan further
states that ground waters designated for use as domestic or municipal supply shall not
contain concentrations of chemical constituents in excess of the limits specified in
California Code of Regulations, title 22, chapter 15, article 4, section 64435, Tables 2, 3,
and 4 as a result of human activity. While it is anticipated that some degradation of
groundwater quality may occur due to the discharge, the increase in the concentrations
of the constituents of concern is not expected to be significant. In addition, due to the low
volume of the discharge, water quality objectives will not be violated.
CEQA EXEMPTION
The Regional Water Board has determined that the activities authorized by this NOA are
exempt from review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to
California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15061. Specifically, the activities
authorized by this NOA meet the exemption criteria under California Code of Regulations,
title 14, section 15301 (Existing Facilities), section 15302 (Replacement or
Reconstruction), section 15303 (New Construction or Conversion of Small Facilities),
and/or section 15311 (Accessory Structures). There is already an existing OWTS, which
the Discharger plans on expanding with a new vermifiltration wastewater treatment
system. There is no substantial evidence that any exceptions to the foregoing CEQA
categorical exemptions apply. Additionally, the State Water Resource Control Board
(State Water Board) considered the potential environmental impacts associated with new
or expanding small domestic systems enrolled in the General Order in a Negative
Declaration adopted on September 23, 2014 through State Water Board Resolution 2014-
0054.
Notice of Applicability 4 December 13, 2019
Calexico Border Patrol Station WWTP
SITE SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The operator of the WWTP shall be familiar with the requirements contained in the
General Order, this NOA, and the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP).
The General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
systems, and specifications that apply only to specific treatment and/or disposal systems.
The Discharger shall comply with the following specific requirements:
a. Required Technical Reports/Plans--By February 14, 2020, the Discharger shall
submit to the Regional Water Board the following plans:
• A Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan consistent with the
requirements of General Order Provision E.1.a; and
• A Sampling and Analysis Plan consistent with the requirements of General
Order Provision E.1.b
MONITORING AND REPORTING
The Discharger shall comply with the requirements of MRP WQ 2014-0153-DWQ(9), as
provided in this section. The MRP is effective upon issuance of this NOA. The MRP
requires the Discharger to monitor the WWTP, collect and analyze samples according to
the following schedule, and report results quarterly and annually.
Water Supply Influent Monitoring
Constituent Units Sample Type Sample Freguency Reporting Freguency
TDS mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterlv
Septic Tank Influent Monitoring
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of
the wastewater quality discharged into the septic tank. At a minimum, septic tank
influent monitoring shall consist of the following:
Notice of Applicability 5 December 13, 2019
Calexico Border Patrol Station WWTP
Constituent Units Samgle Tyge Samgle Freguency Regorting Freguency
Total Nitrogen mgll1 Grab Annually Annually
BOD mall Grab Annuallv Annuallv
TSS mall Grab Annuallv Annuallv
Biofiltration Influent Monitoring
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of
the wastewater quality discharged into the biofiltration unit. At a minimum, biofiltration
unit influent monitoring shall consist of the following:
Constituent Units Samgle Tyge Samgle Freguency Regorting Freguency
Total Nitroaen mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
BOD mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
TSS mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
Biofiltration Effluent Monitoring
Samples of effluent shall be taken at an area that represents the biofiltration effluent
quality distributed to the disposal area, at a minimum, biofiltration effluent monitoring
shall consist of the following:
Parameters Units Samgle Tyge Sam12le Freguency Regorting Freguency
Flow Rate aod Metered2 Continuous Quarterlv
BOD mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
TSS mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
Total Nitroaen mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
DH s.u.3 Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
TDS mall Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
1 mg/L milligrams per liter.
2 Flow rate may be metered or estimated based on potable water supply meter readings or other
approved method. Flow rates may be measured as influent or effluent flow.
3 Standard pH units
Notice of Applicability 6 December 13, 2019
Calexico Border Patrol Station WWf P
Evaporation Pond Monitoring
Constituents Units Sample Type Sample Freguency Reporting Freguency
Free Board 0.1 Measurement Quarterly Quarterly
feet
Odors --Observation Quarterlv Quarterlv
Berm Condition ma/L Grab Quarterlv Quarterlv
FACILITY REQUIREMENTS AND DISCHARGE FLOW LIMITATION
1. The Discharger shall comply with General Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ.
2. The flow of the wastewater discharged to the evaporation pond shall not exceed a
daily maximum of 5,000 gallons.
3. Wastewater discharged to the evaporation pond shall comply with the following

===PLANNED CHANGES===

