WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -3-
17. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of
its intent to prescribe. waste discharge requirements for this discharge.
18. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining
to the discharge~
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 77-216 be rescinded and Grovelan·ct Community
Services District and Pine Mountain Lake Association, in order to meet the pro­
visions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations
adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. The direct discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water
drainage courses is prohibited.
2. The by-pass or overflow of untreated or partial 1 y treated waste is
prohibited.
3. Public contact with plant effluent is prohibited.
4. Resurfacing of wastewater percolating from the -reservoirs· or irrigation
areas is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:.
1. Neither the treatm~nt nor the discharge shall cause a pollution or
nuisance as defin~d by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
2. The discharge shall not cause degradation of any water supply.
3. The discharge shall remain within the designated disposal area at all
times. ·
4. Reclaimed wastewater shall meet the criteria contained in Title 22,
Division 4, California Administrative Code (Section 60301, et seq.)
5. The following constituent limitation shall apply to wastewater discharged
to holding reservoirs and spray fields:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
GROVELAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AND PINE MOUNTAIN LAKE ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Constituents Units
20°C 8005 mg/1
Total Coliform MPN/100 ml
Organisms -4-
Monthly Weekly .. Daily
Average Median Maximum
30 80
23 240
· 6. The following constituent limitation shall apply to wa~tewater discharged
to the spray fields:
Constituent
Settleable Matter Units
ml/l hr Monthly
Average
0.5 Daily
Maximum
1.0
7. The Discharger's treated effluent storage reservoirs shall have a minimum
freeboard of 24 inches.
8. The Discharger may not spray dispose of effluent during periods of precip­
itation or for at least 24 hours after cessation of precipitation.
9. The 30-day ·average· daily dry weather plant:Cinfluent flow shall .not exceed -
400,000 gallons.
10. Peak daily wet weather plant influent .flow .shall not exceed 500,000'
gallons.
11. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes
shall be disposed of in~ mann~r approved by the Executive Officer.
12. The dissolved oxygen content of all reservoirs shall not be less than 1.0
mg/1 for 16 hours in any 24-hour period.
13. Effluent discharged to the spray fields shall be managed to minimize
erosion, runoff, and aerosol movement from the disposal area.
14. Septage, chemical toilet waste, and recreational vehicle waste shall only
be discharged to the treatment system in a manner approved by the
Executive Officer.
C. Provisions:
l. The Discharger may be required to submit technical reports as directed by
the Executive Officer.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
GROVELAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AND PINE MOUNTAIN LAKE ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
TUOLUMNE COUNTY /
-5-
2. The Discharger shall comply with the attached Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. 87-121.
3. The Discharger shall comply with the Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements, dated 1 September 1985, which are a part of this Order.
4. The Discharger shal 1 submit,· by 15 November 1987, an interim report
appraising any existing or potential threat to water quality resulting
from past operation of the unlined septage receiving impoundm.ent. Thfs
report should include plans and a time schedule for reclassification or
closure of the impoundment.
5. The Discharger shall submit, for staff approval, a detailed report on
septage, recreatioria'l vehicle, chemical toilet, and sludge treatment and
disposal practices by 15 February 1988. Practices shall meet the require~- .
ments of Subchapter 15 of Title 23.
6 •. The Discharger shall report promptly to the·Board any material change·.or .. -"
proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.
7. In the event of any change in control or·ownershi p of land or waste-,·,··· .. ·.·
discharge facilities presently owned or controlled by the Discharger, the
Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of ·the existence ..
of this Order by letter, a: copy of which s·hall be forwarded to this·:·.
office.
8. The Board wi 11 review this Order periodic:al ly and may revise requir.ements
when necessary.
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executiv~ Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a
ful 1, true, and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 26 June 1987.
Revised:6/1/87:GDS:gs
Attachments WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
J
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTRciL/~OARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 87-121
FOR
GROVELAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AND PINE MOUNTAIN LAKE ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
INFLUENT MONITORING
The following shall constitute the influent monitoring program:
Constituent
Flow Units
mgd Type of
Sample
Cumu1 ative Sampling
Frequency
Daily
A log shall be kept which quantifies the amount of septage, recreational vehicle,
and chemic.al toilet waste received by the District on a monthly basis. This
information shall be included ,in the monthly monitoring report.
EFFLUENT MONITORING
Effluent samp 1 es shall be co 11 ected downstream fr:om .the last connection through
which wastes can be admitted into the effluent reservoir or. spray disposal system.
Effluent samples should be representative of the volume and nature o-f the dis­
charge. Time of collection of,· a grab sample shal:1 ·be. recorded; The following
shall constitute the effluent monitoring program: .': .. _, ...
Type of Sampling
Constituents Units Sample Frequency
20°C 8005 mg/1 Grab Weekly
Settleable Matter ml/1 Grab Weekly
Coliform MPN/100 ml Grab Three Times/Week
EFFLUENT RESERVOIR MONITORING
Constituents
Dissolved Oxygen
Reservoir Elevation Units
mg/1
Feet Sampling
Frequency
Weekly
Daily
In conducting the water sampling, a log shall be kept of the effluent reservoirs
condition. Attention shall be given to the presence or absence of:
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
GROVELAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AND PINE MO·UNTAIN LAKE ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
a. Floating or suspended matter
b. Discoloration
c. Bottom deposits
d. Aquatic life -2-
Notes on irrigated area/conditions shall be summarized in the monitoring report •.
REPORTING
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular
form so that the date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily
discernible. The data shall be. summarized in such a manner to illustrate clearly
the compliance with waste discharge requirements.
Monthly monitoring·reports s~all be submitted to the Regional Board by the 15th
day of the following month. ·
The results of any monitoring::done more frequently than· reqtfired at the locations· ··
specified in the Monitoring and-Reporting Program shall:-be reported to the Board.
_,\.The Discharger sha 11 submit a report to the Bo'ard by 15 February 1988 and 30
January of each subsequent year. The report :shall 'contain both tabular and
graphical summaries of the mo·nitoring data obtained during ·the previous year. · In
addition, the Discharge shall discuss the compl.i~nce record and the corrective
act ions taken or planned whi'ch may be needed to bring the discharge into full
comp 1 i ance with the waste di sch-arge requir'ements. ·· ·
This report will include an annual. analysis and evaluation of the District's
treatment, storage, and disposal capacity. . The information provided should.
parallel that presented in 11Wastewater Treatment Pl ant and Disposal Study for
Grovel and Community Services Di strict, November 198611• The report should clearly
review the District's previous year•s data on wastewater flows and evaluate future
projections on storage and disposal.
The annual report shall include documentation of septage, recreational vehicle,
chemical toilet, and sludge management practices for the previous year and projec­
tions for the current year. This shall include the amount of sludge generated and
disposed of, as well as disposal methods.
The·first annual report shall include a detailed description and discussion of the
design and operation of the reclaimed wastewater system. Special attention should
be given to the transmission and distri.bution systems, and use areas. At a
.;;..-_ ---
/
I
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
GROVELAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AND PINE MOUNTAIN LAKE ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
· TUOLUMNE COUNTY -3-
m1n1mum, this should include maps and/or diagrams of the golf course and spray
field layout, spray field operat·ional parameters, and methods applied to assure
compliance with Discharge Prohibition No. 3, and Dis.charge Specification Nos. 4
and 13. Subsequent annual reports will address any significant proposed or
implemented changes in the reclamation system, when appropriate.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the effective date
of this Order.
Ordered by (iJQL.,.~U
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
26 June 1987
Date
Revised: 6/1/87:GDS:gs
•.' J
,, ' ;
-.,.· ' !· ._., INFORMATION SHEET
GROVELAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AND PINE MOUNTAIN LAKE ASSOCIATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Groveland Community Services District (GCSD) Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
System, located in the Community of Groveland, serves the wastewater disposal
needs of that community, the Pine Mountain Lake subdivision, and the nearby
community of Big Oak F.l at. The District expanded its treatment capacity in 1986
to 400,000 gpd. Present flow averages 150,000.
Plant effluent is stored in the system's effluent reservoirs during winter ,and;
applied on land by -spray irrigation during the summer. The District maintains a
long-term contract with the Pine Mountain Lake Asociation to store and dispose of
up to 315 acre-feet.Pf effluent on the Pine Mountain Golf Course. Surface water
drainage in this area is to Pine.Mountain Lake.
Specific treatment improvements.include a rotostrainer system; increased aeration--,
and pumping capacity; .. ·an oxyge:R·control system; a,·new solid:s·. handling system; :and:=· ·:.:2,;·:r
increased disinfection· facilities. The District also recently rehabilitated its:· · ~--·
sewage conveyance .system and lift station telemetry system.· Due to the dynamic
nature of grm1th and seasonal '·Occupancy of this foothill area, continual planning'··
is necessary to assure adequate treatment, storage, and disposa 1 capacity. · ThB.
District has assured. the Board~ of a commitment to continual planning for, .and -~-.,_.
imp 1 ementation of, a,dequate st9rage and di sposa 1 capacity to conform with the
prohibitions of this Order.
The Discharger has agreed to discontinue the practice of receiving septage,
recreational vehicle, and chemical toilet waste in an on-site, unlined pit and to
evaluate alternative modes of treatment/disposal of this type of waste.
Waste discharge reqµirements are being updated to reflect the changes in the
treatment system. As a requirement of this Order, the District will submit an
annual evaluation of the projections and plans for continuing storage and disposa,l.
of treated effluent.
Revised:6/1/87:GDS:gs
,.,. __ ~ ...... __ _ -__ . ______ : '.:'·~~.-1. . .t,.r•:.: __ _ ..
l .,
:, < I',
~;- .,
--1
' . .
" ,1
·i