wastewater treatment and disposal
areas.
C. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall submit technical reports as directed by the
Executive Officer.
2. The Discharger shall comply with the attached Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. 90-075 , and any revisions thereto as ordered by the
Executive Officer.
·~.
I. (~
' )
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
SOMMERVILLE I-5 PARTNERSHIP
INTERSTATE 5 AND JAYNE AVENUE
FACILITY, FRESNO COUNTY -5-
3. The Discharger shall comply with the 11Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements,11 dated 1 February 1990,
which are, by reference, made part of this Order.
4. The discharge shall not cause degradation of any water supply.
5. Within six months of the effective date of this Order, the Discharger
shall submit, to the satisfaction of the Executive Officer, a technical
report describing plans for implementing a reclamation program. The
reclamation program shall comply with the Water Reclamation Policy,
Section 13512, Article 2, Chapter 7, of the California Water Code;
State Water Resources Control Board Resolution No. 77-1; and the
Reclamation Criteria, Chapter 3, Division 4, Title 22 of the California
Code of Regulations. This report shall identify on a map the
location ( s) of proposed reclamation site ( s), the vegetation grown
thereon, and, if available, the Order Number(s) of the Wastewater
Reclamation Requirements governing the site(s). If not feasible, the
Discharger shall include in the technical report a thorough explanation
why reclamation will not be implemented, including evidence that all
reclamation alternatives were explored.
6. The terms of this Order do not establish a right for continued
discharge to evaporation/percolation ponds.
a. If the Discharger proposes not to implement reclamation and the
justification is not acceptable to the Executive Officer, this
Order shall be rescheduled for hearing and possible modification.
b. If the Discharger proposes reclamation it shall also submit a time
schedule for implementation acceptable to the Executive Officer
and a report of waste discharge for appropriate modification of
this order.
7. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste
discharge facilities described herein, the Discharger shall notify
the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by
letter within thirty days, a copy of which shall be forwarded
simultaneously to this office.
8. The Discharger shall provide a letter report within 60 days of the
effective date of this Order identifying the names, titles and
certificate grades of persons supervising and operating the facility,
and identifying whom to contact, and means of contact, in case of an
emergency.
9. The Discharger shall submit a copy of the operation and maintenance
(O&M) manual for the facility by 23 May 1990. The O&M manual shall
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
SOMMERVILLE I-5 PARTNERSHIP
INTERSTATE 5 AND JAYNE AVENUE
FACILITY, FRESNO COUNTY .-"
)
-6-
include a periodic pond maintenance program in order to maintain
percolation rates.
10. The Discharger sha 11 submit technica 1 reports verifying comp 1 iance with
Standard Provisions A.9 and B.2 by 23 May 1990. The content of these
reports shall be incorporated into the O&M manual as appropriate.
11. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for
reference by operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be
familiar with its contents.
12. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board
or court orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary
liability, or in modification or revocation of this Order.
13. In addition to modification of this Order under circumstances described
in Standard Provision A.3, this Order may be modified if sludge use
or disposal practices change, if applicable management practices or
numerical limitations for pollutants in these wastes necessitate it,
if there is endangerment to human health or the environment, or if the
Board elects to review and revise the Order on its own motion.
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a
full, true, and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 23 March 1990
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
SWG:cjs:3/23/90
Attachments
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 90-075
FOR
SOMMERVILLE I-5 PARTNERSHIP
INTERSTATE 5 AND JAYNE AVENUE FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
EFFLUENT MONITORING
The following shall constitute the effluent monitoring program: ~
Constituent Unit Type of Sample
Flow MGD Metered
Dissolved Oxygen mg/1 Grab
pH units Grab
BOD5 mg/1 Grab
Specific Electrical umhos/cm Grab
Conductance (EC) @ 25 C FreguencyY
Daily
3/week
3/week
2/month
Quarterly
Dissolved oxygen samples shall be collected from the aerated pond and
each pond from a depth of 1.0 feet at the point furthest from the
inlet. Other samples shall be collected from the outlet of the aerated
lagoon. Samples shall be collected between 0800 and 0900 hours.
g/ If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate