wastewater treatment and
disposal areas.
7. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In
particular, -4-
a. An erosion control program shall assure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water
surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
"c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris sha 11 not accumulate on the
water surface.
8. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means
as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
9. Irrigation or impoundment of wastewater shall not occur within 500
feet of any domestic well or within 100 ,feet of any irrigation well
unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Executive
Officer that a lesser distance is justified. ·
10. Use of reclaimed wastewater shall be limited to flood irrigation of
fodder, fiber, and seed crops.
11. Application of wastewater to the reclamation.area sha11 not exceed,
including the nutritive val~e of organic and chemical .fertilizers,
what is reasonably necessary for the crop.
12. The treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a
100-year return frequency.
13. The storage ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate
allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and
ancillary inflow and infiltration during the nonirrigation season.
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation using a return period of 25 years, distributed qionthly
in accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard in all
ponds sha 11 never be less than 2 feet (measured vert ica 1ly).
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
PLANNING AND CORRECTIONS DIVISION
CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON, WASCO
KERN COUNTY
C. Sludge ·Disposal -5-
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes shall be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with
Title 23, CCR, Section 2510, et seq., (Subchapter 15), and approved
by the Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be
reported to the Executive Officer at least 14 days in advance of the
change.
o.