Wastewater
Reclamation Plant (Plant), which discharged the treated wastewater to the Santa
Clara River. That discharge was regulated by a National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System ( NPDES) permit. Due to the age of the Plant, which was built in
1939, the City was unable to comply with the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance does not stay any condition of this Order.
City of Santa Paula File No. 06 -189
Order No. R4 -2018-0022 -A01
30J. The City shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any information that the
Regional Board may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying,
revoking and reissuing, or terminating this Order. The City shall also provide
the Regional Board, upon request , with copies of records required to be kept
under this Order for at least three (3) years.
K. Spill Clean -Up Contingency Plan (S CCP) Requirements – The City is required
to periodically submit an updated and revised SCCP, which describes the
activities and protocols to address clean -up of spills, overflows, and bypasses
of untreated or partially treated wastewater from the City’s collection system or
treatment facilities. At a minimum, this SCCP shall include sections on spill
clean -up and containment meas ures, public notification, and monitoring. The
City shall review and amend this S CCP as appropriate after each spill from the
SPWRF or in the service area of the SPWRF . The City shall include a
discussion in the annual summary report of any modifications to the S CCP and
the application of the S CCP to all spills during the year.
L. Construction, Operation, and Maintenance Requirements
1. The City shall, at all times, properly operate and maintain the SPWRF,
including its wastewater collection, treatment , and disposal facilities (and
related appurtenances) to ensure compliance with this Order, as well as
provide adequate and reliable transport, treatment, and disposal of all
wastewater from planned future wastewater sources under the City’s
responsibilities . Proper operation and maintenance includes , but is not
limited to: effective performance, repairs and upgrades when needed,
adequate funding, adequate operator staffing and training, adequate
operator supervision, and adequate laboratory and process contro ls
(including appropriate quality assurance /quality control procedures).
2. The SPWRF shall be supervised and operated by persons possessing
certificates of appropriate grade in accordance with CCR, Title 23,
Division 3, Chapter 26 and California Water Code s ection s 13625 - 13633.
3. The SPWRF shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
operation and maintenance manual prepared by the municipality through
the Clean Water Grant Program. The City’s Operation, Maintenance, and
Monitoring P lan (OMM Plan) shall be available for reference and use by
all applicable personnel. The City shall maintain, regularly review, and
revise or update as necessary the OMM Plan in order for the document(s)
to remain useful and relevant to current equipment and operation
practices. Reviews shall be conducted annually, and revisions or updates
shall be completed as necessary and submitted to the Regional Board on
an annual basis.
4. The City shall maintain in good working order a sufficient alternate power
source for operating the wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. All
City of Santa Paula File No. 06 -189
Order No. R4 -2018-0022 -A01
31equipment shall be located to minimize failure due to moisture, liquid
spray, flooding, and other physical phenomena. The alternate power
source shall be designed to permit inspection a nd maintenance and shall
provide for periodic testing. If such alternate power source is not in
existence, the City shall halt, reduce, or otherwise control all discharges
upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the primary source of power.
5. The City shall provide standby or emergency power facilities and/or
sufficient storage capacity or other means so that in the event of plant
upset , outage due to power failure or other cause, or heavy rainfall,
discharge of raw or inadequately treated sewage does not occur and
infiltration ponds do not exceed their hydraulic capacity .
M. Sludge Disposal Requirements
1. All sludge generated at the wastewater treatment plant shall be disposed
of, treated, or applied to land in accordance with federal regulations
containe d in 40 C.F.R. Part 503. These requirements are enforceable by
USEPA.
2. The City shall compl y with requirements in State Water Board Order No.
2004 -10-DWQ, “General Waste Discharge Requirements for the
Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in
Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural and Land Reclamation Activities”
for those sites receiving the City's biosolids that a regional water board
has placed under this general order, and with the requirements in
individual waste discharge requirements issued by a regional water b oard
for sites receiving the City's biosolids.
3. The City shall comply, if applicable, with WDRs issued by other regional
water boards to which jurisdiction the biosolids are transported and
applied.
4. The City shall provide this Regional Board with a copy of any report (s)
submitted to USEPA, the State Water Board , or other regional water
boards, with respect to municipal sludge or biosolids.
N. Collection System Requirements
The City must properly enrol l under the applicable General WDRs for Sanitary
Sewer Systems and comply with the requirements specified in the General
WDRs. The State Water Board adopted General WDRs for Sanitary Sewer
Systems (Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ) on May 2, 2006 and amended the
WDRs by Order No. WQ 2008 -0002 -EXEC and Order No. WQ 2013 -0058 -
EXEC, to provide a consistent and statewide approach to regulating sanitary
sewer systems to prevent and/or reduce sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs).
Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ requires public agencie s that own or operate
sanitary sewer systems to develop and implement sewer system management
City of Santa Paula File No. 06 -189
Order No. R4 -2018-0022 -A01
32plans and report all SSOs to the State Water Board’s online SSO database.
The City’s collection system is part of the system that is subject to Order No.
2006 -0003-DWQ. The City enrolled in Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ on July 27,
2006. As such, the City must properly operate and maintain its collection
system. The City must also report any non-compliance and mitigate any
discharge from the collection system in violatio n of this Order.
O. Spill Reporting Requirements
1. Initial Notification – Although State and Regional Board staff do not have
duties as first responders, this requirement is an appropriate mechanism
to ensure that the agencies that do have first responder duties are notified
in a timely manner in order to protect public health and beneficial uses.
For certain spills, overflows and bypasses, the City shall make
notifications as required below:
i. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code
section 5411.5, the City shall provide notification to the local health
officer or the director of environmental health with jurisdiction over
the affected water body of any unauthorized release of sewage or
other waste that causes, or probably will cause , a discharge to any
waters of the state as soon as possible, but no later than two (2)
hours after becoming aware of the release.
ii. In accordance with the requirements of California Water Code
section 13271, the City shall provide notification to the California
Emergency Management Agency (Cal EMA) of the release of
reportable quantities of hazardous substances or sewage that
causes, or probably will cause, a discharge to any waters of the stat e
as soon as possible, but not later than two (2) hours after becoming
aware of the release. CCR, Title 23, section 2250 establishe s 1,000
gallons or more as a reportable quantity of sewage. The phone
number for reporting these releases to the Cal EMA is (800) 852-
7550.
iii. The City shall notify the Regional Board of any unauthorized release
of sewage from the SPWRF that causes, or probably will cause, a
discharge to a water of the state as soon as possible, but not later
than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release. This initial
notification does not need to be made if the City has notified Cal EMA
and the local health officer or the director of environmental health
with jurisdiction over the affected waterbody. The phone number for
reporting these releases of sewage to the Regional Board is (213)
576-6683. The phone numbers for after hours and weekend
reporting of releases of sewage to the Regional Board are (213) 305 -
2284 and (213) 305 -2253.
City of Santa Paula File No. 06 -189
Order No. R4 -2018-0022 -A01
33At a minimum, the following information shall be provi ded to the
Regional Board:
a. The location, date, and time of the release;
b. The water body that may be impacted by the discharge;
c. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released
and the amount that reached the