wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. All equipmen t shall
be located to minimize failure due to moisture, liquid spray, flooding, and other
physical phenomena. The alternate power source shall be designed to permit
inspection and maintenance and shall provide for periodic testing. If such
alternate power source is not in existence, the City shall halt, reduce, or
otherwise control all discharges upon the reduction , loss, or failure of the primary
source of power.
5. The City shall provide standby or emergency power facilities and/or sufficient
storage capacity or other means so that in the event of plant upset, outage due
to power failure or other cause, or heavy rainfall, discharge of raw or
inadequately treated sewage does not occur and infiltration ponds do not exceed
their hydraulic capacity.
M. Sludge Disposal Requirements
1. All sludge generated at the wastewater treatment plant shall be disposed of,
treated, or applied to land in accordance with federal regulations contained in 40
C.F.R. Part 503. These requirements are enforceab le by USEPA.
2. The City shall comply with requirements in State Water Board Order No. 2004-
10-DWQ, "General Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of
Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultura l, Silvicultura l,
Horticultural and Land Reclamation Activities" for those sites receiving the City's
biosolids that a regional water board has placed under this general order, and
with the requirements in individual waste discharge requirements issued by a
regional water board for sites receiving the City's biosolids.
26
City of Santa Paula
Santa Paula Water Recycling Facility Order No. R4-2018-0022
File No. 06-189
3. The City shall comply, if applicable, with WDRs issued by other regional water
boards to which jurisdiction the biosolids are transported and applied.
4. The City shall provide this Regional Board with a copy of any report(s) submitted
to USEPA, the State Water Board, or other regional water boards, with respect
to municipal sludge or biosolids.
N. Collection System Requirements
The State Water Board adopted General WDRs for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Order
No. 2006-0003-DWQ) on May 2, 2006, to provide a consistent and statewide approach
to regulating sanitary sewer systems to prevent and/or reduce sanitary sewer
overflows (SSOs). Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ requires public agencies that own or
operate sanitary sewer systems to develop and implement sewer system management
plans and report all SSOs to the State Water Board's online SSO database . The City's
collection system is part of the system that is subject to Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ.
The City enrolled in Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ on July 27, 2006. As such, the City
must properly operate and maintain its collection system. The City must also report
any non-compliance and mitigate any discharge from the collection system in violation
of this Order.
0. Spill Reporting Requirements
1. Initial Notification -Although State and Regional Board staff do not have duties
as first responders , this requirement is an appropriate mechanism to ensure that
the agencies that do have first responder duties are notified in a timely manner
in order to protect public health and beneficial uses. For certain spills, overflows
and bypasses, the City shall make notifications as required below:
i. In accordance with the requirements of Health and Safety Code section
5411.5, the City shall provide notification to the local health officer or the
director of environmental health with jurisdiction over the affected water
body of any unauthorized release of sewage or other waste that causes, or
probably will cause, a discharge to any waters of the state as soon as
possible, but no later than two (2) hours after becoming aware of the
release.
ii. In accordance with the requirements of California Water Code section
13271, the City shall provide notification to the California Emergency
Management Agency (Cal EMA) of the release of reportable quantities of
hazardous substances or sewage that causes, or probably will cause, a
discharge to any waters of the state as soon as possible, but not later than
two (2) hours after becoming aware of the release. CCR, Title 23, section
2250 establishes 1,000 gallons or more as a reportable quantity of sewage.
The phone number for reporting these releases to the Cal EMA is (800)
852-7550 .
iii. The City shall notify the Regional Board of any unauthorized release of
sewage from the SPWRF that causes, or probably will cause, a discharge
to a water of the state as soon as possible, but not later than two (2) hours
after becoming aware of the release. This initial notification does not need
27
City of Santa Paula
Santa Paula Water Recycling Facility Order No. R4-2018-0022
File No. 06-189
to be made if the City has notified Cal EMA and the local health officer or
the director of environmental health with jurisdiction over the affected
waterbody . The phone number for reporting these releases of sewage to
the Regional Board is (213) 576-6683. The phone numbers for after hours
and weekend reporting of releases of sewage to the Regional Board are
(213) 305-2284 and (213) 305-2253.
At a minimum , the following information shall be provided to the Regional
Board:
a. The location, date, and time of the release;
b. The water body that may be impacted by the discharge ;
c. An estimate of the amount of sewage or other waste released and the
amount that reached the