consists of preliminary treatment (coarse and fine mechanical
screening and grit removal at the Influent Lift Station), flow equalization (two
flow equalization tanks), secondary treatment (three aeration tanks with
nitrification and denitrification activated sludge), tertiary treatment (six
biomembrane bioreactors, providing further carbonaceous oxidation,
nitrification/denitrification and solids removal to meet the lim its of the WDRs),
and disinfection (UV). Treated and disinfected effluent is discharged to three
3percolation ponds (Figure 45). The returned activated sludge is treated at two
of three aerobic digesters (one aerobic digester is for backup) after being
thickened at two thickeners. The solids generated at the aerobic digesters
receive final dewatering at the screw dewatering press. Final solids are hauled
by Synagro to their South Kern Compost Manufacturing Facility where
they are composted to meeting the Un ited States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) Class B A reuse standards are sent to the Ventura County
Regional Bio -Solids facility for agricultural reuse .
C. The SPWRF was not designed to remove chloride. Since the SPWRF has no
ability to remove chloride, chloride is passed through to the effluent and then
groundwater via discharges to the percolation pond. To address levels of
chloride in the effluent, an advanced treatment system, consisting of
reverse osmosis (RO), will be constructed at the SPWRF, which will be
designed to reduce the chloride concentration in the effluent to 110
milligrams per liter (mg/L) or less. The RO system will consist of
nanofiltration and RO units to reduce effluent chloride concentrations
followed by a RO brine concentrator (Figure 4).
4. On page 4, paragraph No. 13 is revised as follows:
On August 23, 2018, the Regional Water Board approved the City’s modified
groundwater monitoring network dated May 1, 2018 to expand the
groundwater monitoring network by including agricultural water supply wells.
Subsequently, on April 22, 2019, the Regional Water Board approved the
Groundwater Chloride Investigation and Well Production Workplan dated
December 2018 , which propose d install ing one additional off -site groundw ater
monitoring well , MW-9.
The City owns and currently samples eight (8) nine (9) groundwater monitoring
wells, including MW-1, MW-2a, MW-3, MW-4, MW-5, MW-6, MW-7a, and MW-8,
and MW -9 (shown on Figure 45). Per Section IV.C.3 of the Monitoring and Reporti ng
Program (MRP) (Attachment E), the City will be proposing a modified groundwater
monitoring network. Upon approval by the Executive Officer, the modified
groundwater monitoring network will be used to determine compliance with the
groundwater limitations in this Order, demonstrate that the discharge via percolation
ponds does not cause mounding of groundwater, and to generally monitor the
change of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

