wastewater treatment
and disposal. If the report meets the satisfaction of the Executive Officer, he shall
notify the Discharger that this Provision is satisfied and Discharge Specification B.2
is in effect.
4. By 15 January 1995, the Discharger shall submit a Report of Waste Discharge and a
work plan for sludge disposal. The work plan shall address compliance with Sludge
Disposal Specification Nos. C.1 to C.3. The plan shall include a time schedule for
implementation and be prepared by a California registered civil engineer experienced
in wastewater treatment and disposal.
5. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facilities described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or
operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be
immediately forwarded to this office.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
MADERA C:MD # 8A, NORTH FORK WWfF
MADERA COUNTY /
i
-7-
To assume operation under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply
in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request
must contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the State of incorporation if a
corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the persons responsible
for contact with the Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the
signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or
operator assumes full responsibility for compliance with this Order. Failure to
submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a violation
of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the
Executive Officer.
6. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement involving disposal or reclamation areas or off-site reuse of effluent, used
to justify the capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with this Order, the
Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of the situation and of what measures
have been taken or are being taken to assure full compliance with this Order.
7. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique
currently available to comply with salinity limits specified in this ord_er.
8. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision
or rescission of this Order.
9. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each report due date the
specified document or, if an action is specified, a written report detailing evidence of
compliance with the date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, the reasons
for such noncompliance shall be stated, plus an estimate of the date when the
Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Board by letter
when it returns to compliance with the time schedule.
10. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the WWTF for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
11. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most
current edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction
Purposes". Other uses of reclaimed water not specifically authorized herein shall be
subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and shall comply with 22 CCR,
Division 4.
(
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
MADERA CMD # 8A, NORTH FORK WWTF
MADERA COUNTY -8-
12. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central
Valley Region, on 9 December 1994.
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
JLA:jla/fmc: 12/9/94
" )
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-353
FOR
MADERA COUNTY MAINTENANCE DISTRICT NO. 8A
NORTH FORK WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established with concurrence of the Board's staff, and a
description of the stations shall be submitted to the Board by 15 January 1995 and attached to this
Program.
EFFLUENT MONITORING
Except for flow, which may be measured at the headworks or the treatment unit, effluent samples
shall be collected prior to discharge to the storage pond. Effluent samples should be representative
of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection of a grab sample shall be recorded.
Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:
CQn~tituents Jlmy Type Qf Sam12l~ Fr~uenci
Total Daily Flow gpd Continuous · Daily
·------- -·--·--------··
Settle.able Solids ml/1 Grab Daily
Specific Conductivity µmhos/cm Grab Weekly
@25°C ..
BOD/ mg/1 Grab Weekly
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 Grab Weekly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml Grab Weekly
If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate