existing facility and construct
additional treatment and disposal capacity at this site. The proposed modifications and new
construction will require the purchase of additional land and will increase total treatment
capacity to 0.3 mgd. The Discharger has applied, and has been approved, for loans and grants
from the Farmers Home Administra tion to modify the current facility. Construction for the
entire modified facility is expected to be completed in October 1996.

The Discharger is in the process of entering into an agreement with a local farmer to purchase 20
acres of adjacent property for facility expansion and to supply reclamation water for agricultural
use. The farmer has been advised to submit a Report of Water Reclamation to the Board prior to
reclaiming wastewater from the Discharger.

Discharge Specification B.1 of these requirements limits the monthly average daily discharge
flow of wastewater to 0.2 2 million gallons until the Board has received written certification that
expansion and modifications of the treatment facilities is complete. The Discharger has
requested a current limit of 0.25 mgd. The limit of 0.22 mgd, though only slightly greater t han
current flows, is in the opinion of staff, all the current facility is capable of adequately handling
based on a site inspection of 17 January 1995 and review of technical information provided by
 INFORMATION SHEET - Continued


TERRA BELLA SEWER MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY -2-

the Discharger. Upon acceptance of certification by the Executive Officer, the monthly average
discharge flow will be increased to 0.3 mgd.

Soils beneath the site consist of non -marine alluvial deposits of mixed grain size with moderate
rates of infiltration and permeability.

Community water supply is from local wells, Deer Creek, and the Friant -Kern Canal. Depth to
ground water in the area was reported in spring 1983 at 155 feet below ground surface. Ground
water quality is good (EC of about 500 µmhos/cm). However, sampling of on -site monitoring
wells sh ow shallow ground water quality beneath the site is fair (EC about 773 to 976
µmhos/cm). The beneficial uses of underlying ground water are municipal and domestic,
industrial, and agricultural supply.

Surface water drainage is to Fountain Springs Gulch, a tributary to Deer Creek, about 1.2 miles
downstream of the wastewater treatment facility. Deer Creek is a valley floor water. The
designated beneficial uses of Valley Floor waters are agricultural and industrial supply, water
contact and non -contact wat er recreation, warm fresh water habitat, wildlife habitat, preservation
of rare and endangered species, and ground water recharge.

The Terra Bella Sewer Maintenance District has certified a negative declaration for this project
in accordance with the Ca lifornia Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code, Section
21000, et seq.), and State Guidelines. The project, as approved, will not have a significant effect
on water quality.