wastewater treatment and
disposal.
7. The Discharger shall use the best practicable control technique currently available
to comply with this Order.
8. If recycled water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most
current edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction
Purposes". Other uses of reclaimed water not specifically authorized herein shall
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
QUAIL LAKE ESTA TES WWfF
FRESNO COUNTY ,,---~
'----'-'4
)
be subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and shall comply with
22 CC~ Division 4. -9-
9. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in
revision or rescission of this Order.
·10 A copy of this Order shall be kept at the WWfF for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
11. · The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
12. The WWfF shall be staffed with a sufficient number of qualified personnel to
operate the WWfF effectively, where qualified personnel shall be determined by
Standard Provision E. l.
13. In addition to Standard Provision A.3, this Order may be modified (after notice
and opportunity for hearing) to reflect future revisions to Title 22 that differ
significantly from those implemented in this Order. ·
14. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant-free wastewater to be discharged into the
collection system and WWTF in amounts that significantly diminish the system's
capability to comply with this Order. Pollutant-free wastewater means rainfall,
ground water, cooling waters, and condensates that are essentially free of
pollutants.
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive.Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 3 May 1996.
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
LML:lm1/rac
!-~-··_._\ 1-)
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGR.Ai\1 NO. 96-120
FOR
QUAIL LAKE ESTA TES, THE CAMBRIAN GROUP
AND
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 47
QUAIL LAKES ESTATES WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
Specific sample stations locations shall be established with concurrence of the Board's staff, and a
description of the stations shall be submitted to the Board and attached to this Program.
INFLUENT MONITORING
Influent samples shall be collected at the inlet of the headworks and at approximately the same
time as effluent samples. Influent monitoring shall include at _least the following:
Constituent
BODs1
Total Suspended Solids
Settleable Solids ~
mg/1
mg/1
ml/I
1• A.B (See footnotes next page) Type of Sample
Grab
Grab
Grab
EFFLUENT MONITORING Sampling
Freque~
A,B
A,B
A,B
Except for flow, which may be measured either at the headworks or the outlet from the treatment
system, effluent samples shall be collected just prior to discharge for reclamation. Effluent
samples should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection
of a grab sample shall be recorded.
Constituent
Flow1.2
BODs
Total Suspended Solids
· Settleable Solids
Conductivity ~
mgd
mg/1
mg/1
ml/I
µmhos/cm
l.2.A.B (See footnotes next page) Type of Sample
metered
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab Sampling
Frequency
Continuous
A,B
A,B
A,B
A,B \ \
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
QUAIL LAKE ESTATES WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY .
Constituents J.!ni1s
Total Coliform :MPN3/100 ml
Organisms2
Turbidity NTU
Chlorine mg/I
pH PH Units
CT Value mg -minutes/I / ..... --., .~· I ,I
Type of Sample
Grab
Metered
Metered
Grab
Calculated
1 Five-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand. Sampling
Frequency
Daily
Continuous4
Continuous
Daily
Daily5
2 BOD5 and total coliform organisms samples shall be dechlorinated immediately following
sample collection as part of sample collection procedures. ·
3 Most Probable Number. -2-
4 Sampled for turbidity using a continuous turbidity meter and recorder at a point prior to
filtration and again following filtration. Turbidity measurements shall be based on a reading
and recording of the turbidity charts or computer records at four-hour intervals. Compliance
with the daily average operating turbidity shall be determined by averaging the results of all six
four-hour turbidity samples read during the day.
5 The CT value shall be calculated and recorded based on conditions at the time of peak daily
flow.
A 2/mqnth for. flows ~ 0.050 mgd.
B Weekly for flows~ 0.050 mgd.
RECYCLED WATER MONITORING
The amounts (acre-feet) of water and/or recycled water applied to the landscape areas and to the
57-acre lake shall be measured and reported to the Board quarterly in accordance with the
following schedule:
Monitoring Period
January -March
April-June Report Due
15 April
15 July
·~ ,'-·) ~
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM -3-
QUAIL LAKE ESTATES WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
Monitoring Period Report Due
· July -September 15 October
October- December 15 January
EMERGENCY STORAGE POND MONITORING
The amounts (million gallons) of any untreated wastewater diverted to the emergency storage
pond shaHbe reported to the Board monthly. ·
SLUDGE MONITORING
A composite sample of sludge shall be collected annually and tested, on a dry weight basis, for
Total Solids(%), Nitrogen (total, NH4-N, and N03-N), Total Phosphorous, Total Potassium, and
totals of specific metals (Pb, Zn, Cu, Ni, Cd, and Ag). Analytical results shall be submitted to
the Executive Officer. Analysis of soluble concentrations of these specific metals shall also be
included as needed. Sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years. A log shall
be kept of sludge quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency of
entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis for part
of the annual report. Additional sludge sampling may be requested at subsequent intervals,
depending upon review of analytical results.
WATER SUPPLY MONITORING
A sampling station shall be established where a representative sample of the water supply can be
obtained. Water supply monitoring shall include at least the following: ·
Constituents.
Conductivity µmhos/cin -Sample Frequency
Quarterly
If the source water is from more than one well, the Conductivity shall be reported as a weighted
average and include copies of supporting calculations. ·
REPORTING
Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Board by the 20th day of the month
following sample collection. Quarterly and annual monitoring results shall be submitted by the
20th day of the month following each calendar quarter and year, respectively.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
QUAIL LAKE ESTATES WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY -4-
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be
summarized in such a manner to illustrate clearly whether the discharge complies with waste
discharge requirements.
If the Discharger monitors any pollutant at the locations designated herein more frequently than
is required by this Order, the results of such monitoring shall be included in the calculation and
reporting of the values required in the discharge monitoring report form. Such increased
frequency shall be indicated on the discharge monitoring report form.
The Discharger may also be requested to submit an annual report the Board with tabular and
graphical summaries of the monitoring data obtained during the previous year. Any such request
shall be made in writing. The report shall discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to
bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
By 31 January of each year, the Discharge shall submit a written report to the Executive
Officer containing the following: ·
a. The names, titles, certificate grades, and general responsibilities of persons .operating and
maintaining the wastewater treatment plant.
b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the plant for emergency
and routine situations.
c. A certified statement of when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices
were last calibrated, including identification of who did the calibration (Standard Provision
C.4.).
d. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and contingency plan,
reflect the wastewater treatment plant as currently constructed and operated, and the dates
when these documents were last reviewed for aqequacy.
e. The total quantity of sludge disposed of during the previous year and ultimate disposal
site(s). ·
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provisions B.3.
,J
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
QUAIL LAKE ESTA TES WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program prior to any discharge and not
later than the first day of the month following start-up of the WWTF.
Ordered by: (u:L i1 ,(LQ_, .5.
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
3 May 1996
(Date)
LML:lml/rac
0
, .
'----· --INFORMATION SHEET
QUAIL LAKE ESTATES, CAMBRIAN GROUP, AND
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 47
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY ' ,_' _'.,
Fresno County Service Area No. 47 will be the operator for a wastewater treatment facility
(WWTF) that services Quail Lakes Estates, a planned residential community in Fresno County.
Quail Lake Estates will be constructed on about 375 acres and will include 730 residential units,
a community clubhouse, an elementary school, and retail commercial development generating
monthly average and maximum daily flows of0.160 mgd and 0.180 mgd, respectively, of
domestic waste. The WWTF will provide tertiary treatment of domestjc waste by fine screening;
flow equalization; primary clarification; three stages of trickling filtration with interstage
secondary clarification; chemical addition (alum); flocculation; sand filtration; and disinfection.
Treated effluent will be reused to irrigate 33 acres of common area landscape in accordance with
. Title 22, California Code of Regulations. An emergency storage pond of approximately 540,000
gallons (sufficient to contain three days of peak daily design flow) will temporarily contain any
wastewater that does not meet effluent specifications. The pond will have a plastic liner with
permeability rating of less than l 0·1 cm/sec.
A 57-acre lake with a capacity of 3 50 acre feet will provide seasonal storage of reclaimed water
( approximately 15 acre feet/year) when irrigation demand is less than the amount of recycled
water generated. In this lake, the recycled water will be mixed with Fresno Irrigation District
canal water and natural precipitation. Recycled water will comprise approximately 5% of the
annual average lake replenishment. The bottom of the 57-acre lake will be of one-foot of
compacted clay soil with a permeability of l x 10-7 cm/sec, minimizing seepage from the lake.
The lake will accommodate precipitation from a 100-year annual rainfall season. The lake will be
used for boating and fishing.
Because of planned use of the lake for contact recreation (fishing) and use of effluent for
landscape irrigation, these requirements include discharge specifications that limit the 7-day
median number of total coliform organisms in the WWTF effluent to <2.2 :MJ>N/100 ml to
protect public health.
The Federal Clean Water Act and implementing regulations require that discharges of
stormwater from certain industrial activities be subject to permit regulation under the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. Wastewater treatment facilities are one of the industrial
categories subject to such regulation, but only if greater than one mgd. Since this wwtF is less
than l mgd, it is not required to obtain such a permit.
INFORMATION SHEET -Continued
QUAIL LAKE ESTATES WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
Information from on-site borings indicates first encountered ground water ranges from 9.5 feet
below ground surface (bgs) near the southwest portion of the 375-acre property to 22 feet to
32 feet bgs at most other locations. The ground water encountered at 9.5 feet bgs is in a perched
zone adjacent to a wetland area. Local domestic wells are in an unconfined aquifer at 90 to
125 feet bgs that is of excellent mineral quality with total dissolved solids of210 mg/1. Water
supply wells for Quail Lake Estates will be in a semi-confined aquifer 235 to 390 feet bgs.
The beneficial uses of underlying gro.und water are domestic, industrial, and agricultural supply.
Soils on the 375-acre property consist of sands, silts, and clays with permeabilities ranging from
1.4 x 1 o-s to 5 x 10·5 cm/sec.
Surface water drainage is to Redbank Creek and Greys Creek, valley floor waters, by sheet flow.
The beneficial uses of Greys Creek are industrial and agricultural supply; water contact and non­
contact water recreation; warm fresh water habitat; wildlife habitat; preservation of rare and
endangered species; and ground water recharge.
Average annual precipitation in the area is approximately 10 inches and average annual
evaporation is roughly 60 inches. ·
Fresno County certified a final environmental impact report (EIR) in accordance with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000, et seq.)
And the State CEQA Guidelines. The project as approved will not have a significant effect on
water quality. ·
LML:lml/rac:5/3/96