Wastewater treatment and disposal is accomplished via an extended aeration package plant, with
discharge to an effluent reseIVoir. The treatment plant has a design capacity of 22.000 gallons per
day (gpd). During the summer treated wastewater is discharged to a spray field. During the
winter treated wastewater is discharged to a leachfield.
The Discharger discharges approximately 13,000 gpd dming April thrnugh September, and
approximately 2,000 gpd during October through March. The discharge to the treatment plant
consists of RV wastes and other domestic wastes. Sludges generated from the treatment process
are transported to the Tuolumne Utilities District Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Yosemite Pines RV Park is in Section 26, TlS, RI6E. MDB&M. with surface water drainage to
Garrotte Creek. which is tributary to Pine Mountain Lake. as shown in Attachment A. wrnch is
attached hereto and part of the Order by reference.
l11e Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan. 'Ilrird Edition. the Sacramento River Basin and
the San Joaquin River Basin (hereafter Basin Plan), which contains water quality objectives for all
waters of the Basin. These requirements implement the Basin Plan.
l11e beneficial uses of Pine Mountain Lake are municipal, industrial, and agricultural supply:
recreation: aesthetic enjoyment: navigation: ground water recharge; fresh ,vater replenishment :
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
R.K. LOWE. OWNER OF
YOSEMITE PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
hydropower generation; and preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife. and other aquatic
resources .
9. The beneficial uses of underlying ground water are domestic. industrial. and agricultura l supply. -2-
I 0. Die action to update waste discharge requirements for this facility is exempt from the provisions
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), in accordance with Title 14, California
Code of Regulations ( CCR), Section 15301.
11. This discharge is exempt from the requirements of Title 23, CCR, Section 2510, et seq. (hereafter
Chapter 15 ). 'The exemption, pursuant to Section 251 l(b ), is based on the following:
a. 'The Board is issuing waste discharge requirements , and
b. The discharge complies with the Basin Plan, and
c. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to 22 CCR, Division 4.5,
Chapter 11, as a hazardous waste.
12. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations .
13. The Board. in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the discharge .
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 85-313 is rescinded and R.K. Lowe. Owner ofYosenute
Pines RV Park. its agents. successors. and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7
of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder. shall comply ,\ith the following:
A. Disc! ,..ge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface ,vater drainage courses is prorubited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited .
.)_ Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' or 'designated ', as defined in Sections 2521 ( a)
and 2522( a) of Chapter 15. is prohibited .
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
R.K LOWE, OWNER OF
YOSEMITE PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
B. Discharge Specifications: -3-
1. The discharge shall not cause a pollution or nuisance as defined by the California Water
Code, Section 13050.
2. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 2, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not be less than
1.0 mg/1.
4. The treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to
prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
5. The effluent from the treatment facility to land irrigation shall not exceed the follo\\wg
limits:
6.
~ I.
8. Monthly Daily
Constituent Units Average Maximum
BOD,1 mg/1 40 80
Settleable Solids ml/1 0.2 0.5
Five-dav, 20 ° Celsius biochemical oxvgen demand. . -~
Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
There shall be no standing water in the disposal area 24.hmirs after wastewater is appiied.
Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. ln particular:
a. A.n erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are
not created around the perimeter of the water smiace.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
R.K. LOWE, OWNER OF
YOSEMITE PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
9. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences, signs.
and other acceptable alternatives. -4-
10. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and in.filtration during the nonirrigation
season. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a
return period of 25 years, distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall
patterns.
11. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal
the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification 10.
C. Sludge Disposal:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall he
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15, Division 3, Title 23, of the
California Code of Regulations and approved by the Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice from a previously approved
practice shall be reported to the Executive Officer and U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) Regional Administrator at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing Federal and State laws and
reguiations. including permitting requirements and technical standards included in 40
CFR 503.
If the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality Control
Boards are given the authority to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR 503. this
Order may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules and technical
standards. The Discharger must comply with the standards and time schedules contained
in 40 CFR 503 whether or not they have been incorporated into this Order.
4. TI1e Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual issued by the
Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice for landspreading of
Sewage Sludge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
R.K. LOWE, OWNER OF
YOSEMITE PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
5. Within 90 days of the Order's adoption date, the Discharger shall submit a sludge
disposal plan describing the annual volume of sludge generated by the plant and
specifying the disposal practices.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge shall not cause underlying ground water to:
1. Be degraded. -5-
2. Contain chemicals, heavy metals, or trace elements in concentrations that adversely affect
beneficial uses or exceed maximum contaminant levels specified in 22 CCR, Division 4,
Chapter 15.
3. Contain taste or odor-producing substances in concentrations that cause nuisance or
adversely affect beneficial uses.
4. Contain concentrations of chemical constituents in amounts that adversely affect
agricultural use.
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 96-216. which
is part ofthis Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive Officer.
2. TI1e Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements
for Waste Discharge Requirements". dated 1 March 1991. which are attached hereto and
by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are
commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s) ."
3. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the
existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this
office.
4. At least 90 days prior to termination or eA--piration of any lease, contract. or agreement
involving disposal or reclamation areas or off-site reuse of effluent. used to justify the
capacity amh01ized herein and assure compliance with this Order. the Discharger shall
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
R.K. LOWE, OWNtR OF
YOSEMIT.E PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
notify the Board in. \VTI.ting of the situation and (lf w'hat measures have bee11 taken or are
being taken to assure full compliance \V'ith this Order.
5. The Discharger must comply 'With all conditions of this Order .. incl11ding timely subtnittal
of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executiv~ Officer. Violations may
result in enforcement action, including Regional Board ·or court orders requiring
corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this
Order. ·
6. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar \-vith its contents.
7. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes~ it shall comply with the most
current edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction Purposes".
Other uses of reclaimed water not specificall)7 authorized herein shall be subject to tl1e
approval of the Executive Officer and shall comply with 22 CC~ Division 4.
8. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements wl1en
11ecessaty .
. I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS., Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full., true., and con·ect
copy of ,1n Order adopted by the California Regional Water Qt1ality C-011trol Board~ Ce11tral Valley
Region~ on 9 August 1996.
4-,... 4-...,.;
I\ I P. I \ 11
I , .. ()/l { ; f\) I/ ; J / ,/1/ • / · IV . '\' \,.~J ~ ~. v""'~~< --==,.,,...., ___ _
WILLI.Lt\M I1. CROC)KS., Exec·utive Officer
9 iA.ugust 199(1/MRB :dlk ._,
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 96-216
FOR
R.K LOWE, OWNER OF
YOSEMI TE PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established under direction of the Board's staff and a description
of the stations shall be attached to this Order.
MONITORING
The Discharger will monitor the ponds and irrigation field, at a minimum, for the following :
1. The weekly documentation of pond freeboard;
2. Daily flows to pond, irrigation field, and leach.field to include date, time and duration of use of
irrigation field;
3. The dates and duration of any events relating to septic conditions (brown, grey or black colored
water) in the pond. Monitoring shall include weekly dissolved oxygen;
4. The dates and duration of any nuisance odor events; and
5. Any other significant events or changes which may have water quality implications.
Effluent samples shall be collected just prior to discharge to irrigation or leach.field. Effluent samples
should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. Samples collected from the outlet
structure of the pond will be considered adequately composited . Time of collection of a grab sample shall
be recorded. Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following :
Constituents
20°C BOD5
Settleable Matter
Specific Conductivity
pH
F orrnaldehyde mg/1
ml/1
µ.mhos/cm
pH Units
µg/1 Tvoe of Sample
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab
SLUDGE MONITORING Sampling Frequency
Monthly Monthlv
Weeklv
Weekly
2 x Yearly
A log shall be kept
of sludge quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency
of entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis for part of an
annual report.
MON1TORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
R.K. LOWE. OWNER OF
YOSEMITE PINES RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
REPORTING
In reporting the monitoring data: the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date,
the constituents , and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a
manner to illustrate clearly the compliance with waste discharge requirements.
Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board by the 20th day of the following
month.
The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the
Monitoring and Reponing Program shall be reported to the Board. -2-
Upon written request of the Board, the Discharger shall submit a report to the Board by 30 January of
each year. The report shall contain both tabular and grapiJ.ical summaries of the monitoring data obtained
during the previous year. In addition, the Discharger shall discuss the compliance record and the
corrective actions taken or planned which may be needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with
the waste discharge requirements.
The Discharg er shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.
Ordered by:
WILLIAM H. CROOKS. Executive Officer
q August I 996
(Date)
q August 1996/MRB:dlk
:::::---
. ,,, __ . /
·~~=-=--··
ATTACHMENT A
VICINITY MAP I
f
R.K. LOWE. OWNER OF
YOSEMITE PINES RV PARK
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
USGS 7.5 MIN. QUAD SHEET:
GROVELAND. CALIF.
1947
REVISED 1973
SCALE: 1 INCH= :2000 FEET
r
R.K. LOWE. OWNER OF
YOSEMI TE PINtS RV PARK
TUOLUMNE COUNTY INFORMATION SHEET·
The Dischargers operates a 181 unit campground and Recreation Vehicle (RV) park. The facility
is on a 35-acre parcel near Groveland in Tuolumne County.
Wastewater treatment and disposal is accomplished via an extended aeration package plant,
with discharge to an effluent reservoir. The treatment plant has a design capacity of 22.000
gallons per day (gpd). During the summer treated wastewater is discharged to a spray field.
During the winter treated wastewater is discharged to a leachfield.
The Discharger discharges approximately 13,000 gpd during April through September , and
approximately 2,000 gpd during October through March. The discharge to the treatment plant
consists of RV wastes and other domestic wastes. Sludges generated from the treatment
process are transported to the Tuolumne Utilities District Regional Wastewater Treatment
Plant. Surface water drainage is to Garrotte Creek, tributary to Pine Mountain Lake.
9 August 1996/MRB:dlk