wastewater treatment and disposal facilities. The report
required by Provision No. E.5 may be prepared by either a California certified engineering geologist or
registered civil engineer with experience in th ese types of investigations. All reports, however, shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Executive Officer.

7. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge facilities described herein, the
Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which
shall be immediately forwarded to this office.

To assume operation under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply in writing to the Executive
Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the
State of incorp oration if a corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the persons responsible
for contact with the Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the signatory paragraph of
Standard Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or o perator assumes full responsibility for compliance
with this Order. Failure to submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a
violation of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the Executive O fficer.

8. The Discharger shall use the best practicable control technique currently available to comply with the limits
specified in this Order.

9. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of technical and
monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may result in enforcement action,
including Regional Board or court orders requir ing corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in
revision or rescission of this Order.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS -8-
BIOLA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


10. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each report due date the specified document or, if an
action is specified, a written report detailing evidence of compliance with the date and task. If
noncompliance is being reported, the reasons for such noncompliance shall be stated, plus an estimate of the
date when the Discharger will be in compliance. T he Discharger shall notify the Board by letter when it
returns to compliance with the time schedule.

11. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the WWTF for reference by operating personnel. Key operating
personnel shal l be familiar with its contents.



12. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most current edition of
"Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction Purpose s". Other uses of reclaimed water not
specifically authorized herein shall be subject to revision of this Order and compliance with 22 CCR, Division 4.

13. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.


I, JAMES R. BENNETT, Interim Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of an Order
adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 6 December 1996.



 JAMES R. BENNETT, Interim Executive Officer


JLA:jla/fmc:12/6/96

 CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
 CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

 MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 96 -288

 FOR
 BIOLA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
 FRESNO COUNTY

Specific sample station locations shall be established under direction of the Board's staff and a description of the stations shall
be submitted to the Board and attached to this Order.

 INFLUENT MONITORING

Influent samples shall be collected at the inlet of the headworks and at approximately the same
time as effluent samples. Influent monitoring shall include at least the following:
Sampling
Constituents Units Type of Sample Frequency
Settleable Solids ml/l Grab Monthly
20C BOD 5 mg/l Grab Monthly
Total Suspended Solids mg/l Grab Monthly

 EFFLUENT MONITORING

Except for flow, which may also be measured at the headworks, effl uent samples shall be
collected downstream of the last treatment unit but prior to discharge to the disposal ponds.
Time of collection of a grab sample shall be recorded. Effluent monitoring shall include at least
the following:

Sampling
Constituents Units Type of Sample Frequency1
Total Daily Flow gpd Continuous Daily
Settleable Solids ml/l Grab Weekly
20C BOD 5 mg/l Grab Weekly
Total Suspended Solids mg/l Grab Weekly
Electrical Conductivity μmhos/cm Grab Weekly
 @ 25C


* See footnote next page
1 If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate