wastewater treatment and
disposal systems have certain common characteristics, such as similar I
constituents, concentrations of constituents, disposal techniques, flow
ranges and they require the same or similar treatment standards. These I
I
types of discharges are more appropriately regulated under general
Waste Discharge Requirements (general WDRs). 1
I
Only domestic wastewater treatment and disposal systems with a
maximum average daily flow of 20,000 gallons or'less that discharge to
land (small domestic systems) are eligible for coverage under these
general WDRs. Small domestic systems are typically located at
Campgrounds, mobile home parks, roadside rest stops,
condominiums/subdivisions using community waste treatment systems,
restaurants, schools, resort hotels and lodges, small correctional facilities,
and Recreation Vehicles (RV) dump locations, including RV park* Single,
family residences with small domestic systems, for purposes of these
general WDRs, are specifically excluded.
4. All WDRs must implement the applicable water quality control plan (Basin
Plan) for the Region affected by the discharge. heref fore; these general
WDRs require dischargers to comply with all applicable Basin Plan
provisions, including any prohibitions and water quality objectives,
governing the discharge.
5. This Order establishes minimum standards only for small domestic -
systems. The discharger must comply with any more stringent standards
in the applicable Basin .Plan. In the event of a conflict between the
provisions of this Order and the Basin Plan, the more stringent provision
prevails.
6. The beneficial uses for the ground waters of the State are: municipal
supply (MUN), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply
(PROC), fresh water replenishment (FRESH), aquaculture (AQUA),
wildlife habitat (WILD), and agricultural supply (AGR). The following list
shows the beneficial uses that apply to each region. Some beneficial
uses only apply to certain geographical areas.
Re~ion Listed Beneficial Uses
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC, FRESH
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC -
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC, AQUA
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC
MUN, AGR, IND, FRESH, WILD
MUN, AGR, IND
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC
MUN, AGR, IND, PROC, FRESH
To the extent that the applicable Basin Plan designates additional or
different beneficial. uses, the Basin Plan shall control.
Dischargers seeking coverage under these general WDRs shall file; (I) a
standard application for WDRs (Report of Waste Discharge), a Form 200,
or an equivalent document; and (2) a first. annual fee of $400 which
corresponds to a Threat to Water Quality and Complexity of 3b in-the fee..
schedule listed in Section 2200 of Title 23, California Code of Regulations.
(CCR). Upon review by Regional Water Quality.Control Board (RWQCB)
staff, a determination will be made as to whether or not coverage u.nder
these general WDRs is appropriate. The discharger shall be notified by a
letter from the RWQCB's Executive Officer when coverage under these
general WDRs has begun.
8. Each RWQCB has its own waiver policies and conditions. Any discharger
currently under a waiver from the RWQCB does not need to apply for
coverage under these general WDRs. . .
9. Although a discharge may be eligible for coverage under this general
WDR, the appropriate RWQCB rilay determi'ne that the discharge would
**
L "3 Q - - (?3 - -3- .
J. I
be better regulated under an individual WDR, under another general
WDR, or under a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit for discharges to surface waters. If a discharge is
regulated under an individual or general WDR, or a waiver, or under an
NPDES permit issued by an RWQCB, the applicability of this general
WDR to the discharge is immediately terminated on the effective date of
the RWQCB's WDR or NPDES permit. I
I
I
I 10. This Order does not preempt or supersede the authority of municipalities, I
flood control agencies, or other local agencies to prohibit, restrict, or
control discharges of waste subject to their jurisdiction.
11. These WDRs are exempt from Chapter 15 requirements pursuant to CCR, .
Title 23, Chapter 15, Section 251 1 (a).
I
12. This general WDR is intended to cover both new and existing small
domestic systems. The adoption of WDRs for existing small domestic 1
I
systems is exempt from the California Environmental Q'uality Act (CEQA) !
I under CCR, Title 14, Section 15261 or Section 15301 as ongoing or I
existing projects. i
13. The State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) has adopted a
' Mitigated Negative Declaration in compliance with CEQA for new small
domestic systems. The potential significant environmental impacts from
discharges from new small domestic systems can be mitigated to a level
of insignificance by compliance with this Order.
14. Pursuant to Section 13263 of the CWC, the SWRCB, in establishing the
requirements contained herein, considered factors including but not
limited to the .following:
a. Past, present, and probable future beneficial uses of water
b. Environmental characteristics of the hydrographic unit under
consideration, including the quality of water available thereto.
' c. Water quality conditions that could reasonably be achieved through
the coordinated control of all factors which affect water quality in
the area.
d. Economic considerations.
e. The need for developing housing within the Region(s).
f. The need to develop and use recycled water.
The SWRCB has notified potential dischargers and all other known
interested parties of the'intent to prescribe WDRs as described in this
Order.
16. The SWRGB, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments - pertaining to the proposed discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the discharger,in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the CWC and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply
with the following:
A. Prohibitions:
1. The direct or indirect discharge of any wastewater to surface waters or
surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. The treatment and disposal of wastes at the facility shall not cause . ,
pollution, contamination, or nuisance as defined in CWC Section 13050.
3. The discharge of wastewater, other than domestic wastewater, into a
small domestic system is prohibited.
4. ' Bypass or overflow of treated or untreated'waste is prohibited.
5. The discharge of waste to land not owned or controlled by the dischargei
is prohibited.
6. The discharge of wastes from small domestic systems which is not
authorized by this general W6R or other Order or waiver by the RWQCB
is prohibited.
7. Discharge of waste classified as "hazardous", or "designated", as defined
in CCR, Title 23, Chapter 15, Section 2521 (a) and CWC Section 13173,
respectively, to any part of the wastewater disposal system is prohibited. -
B. Requirements:
1. For All Small Domestic Systems:
a. Odors of sewage origin shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
. of the discharger's property boundaries.
b. The siting, design, construction, operation, maintenance, and
monitoring of all small domestic systems must comply with all of the
applicable provisions of the RWQCB's Basin Plan.
c. The discharger shall not discharge waste in excess of the
maximum design and disposal capacity of the small domestic
system.
d. The discharge of waste from small domestic systems shall comply.
with all applicable provisions of the RWQCB's Basin Plan, including
but not limited to any prohibitions and water quality objectives.
For Septic Systems, the ~olfowin~ Additional requirements Apply:
a. Septic tank cleanings shall be'performed only by a duly authorized
service.
b. The discharger shall maintain a log of all septic cleanings. At a
minimum the log shall include the date of the cleaning, and the
name, address, phone number, and license number (if applicable)
of the cleaner. \
c. Dischargers who accept wastes from RVs or'other mobile waste
systems must ensure that such wastes (with constituents including
formaldehyde, zinc, and phenol) do not deleteriously affect the
septic system or impact the ground water.
. ,
3. , For Activated sludge sy,stems, the Following Additional
Requirements Apply: .
If collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes are disposed of at a landfill, such disposal shall comply with CCR,
Title 23, Section 251 0, et seq. (Chapter 15).
b. If sewage sludge is land applied, disposed of at a monofill, or
incinerated, this activity shall comply with existing Federal,State, ..
and local laws and regulations, including requirements of 40 CFR a
503, the RWQCB, and the county ordinances, and shall be
approved by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer.
c. The discharger shall submit a sludge disposal plan and obtain the
appropriate RWQCB Executive Officer's written permission prior to
any disposal of sludge. The Executive Officer shall be informed of
any changes in this plan at least 60 days in advance of the
change.
For Aerated Pond Systems, the Following Additional' Requirements
Apply: . .
If collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes are dispcsed of at a landfill, such disposal shall comply with CCR,
Title 23, Section 251 0, .et seq. (Chapter 15). '
5. For Subsurface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional
Requirements Apply:
a. The subsurface wastewater disposal system(s) shall be maintained
so that at no time will sewage surface at any location.
b. No part of the disposal systern(s) shall extend to a depth where
. waste may pollute ground water.
' 6. For Surface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional
Requirements Apply:
a. A minimum freeboard of two (2) feet shall be maintained at all times
in the .basins or ponds.
b. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such
means as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
c. Basins or ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate
allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and
ancillary inflow and infiltration du'ring the winter season. Design
seasonal precipitation shall be based on criteria, if any, set in the
. appropriate RWQCB's Basin Plan., If no criteria is set in the
appropriate RWQCB1s Basin Plan, then seasonal precipitation shall
be based on historical 24 hour rain fall, using a 10 year return
frequency.
d. Disposal in ponds shall be conducted in a manner such that there
shall be no stranded or exposed sewage solids.
C. Ground Water and Surface Water Limitations:
1. The discharge shall not:
a. Pollute ground or surface waters.
b. Adversely affect beneficial uses or cause an exceedance of any
applicable Bssin Plan water quality objectives for ground or surface
- waters.
2. Where treated wastewater is applied to land by sprinkler or spray -
methods, the discharger shall manage wastewater application to prevent it
from commingling with storm water runoff, or such runoff shall be fully
retained.
D. Provisions: I I
1. For All small Domestic Systems:
a. Adequate measures shallbetakento assure that Aood or surface . . drainage waters do not erode or otherwise damage the discharge
facilities.
b. The discharger shall ensure that all site operating personnel are
familiar with the contents of this general WDR and shall maintain a
copy of this general WDR at the site. .
c. Prior to sny modifications in the discharger's facility which would
result in a material change in the quality or quantity of wastewater
treated or discharged, or any material change in the location of
discharge, the discharger shall report all periinent information in
writing to the appropriate RWQCB and obtain confirmation from the
appropriate RWQCB that such modifications do not disqualify the
discharger from coverage under these general WDRs. Either
- confirmation or new WDRs must be obtained before any
modifications are implemented.
d. The discharger shall comply with "General Monitoring and
Reporting Program No. 97-10-DWQ (Attachment A), and any future
revisions, as specified by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive
Officer. -
e. The appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer and the Director of the
County Environmental Health Department or equivalent agency
shall be notified immediately of any failure of the wastewater
containment facilities. Such failure shall be promptly corrected in
accordance with' the requirements of this Order.
f. The discharger at all times shall properly operate and maintain all
facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related
appurtenances) which are installed or used by the discharger to
achieve compliance with conditions of this Order. The discharger
shall keep in a state of readiness all systems necessary to achieve
compliance with. the conditions of this Order. All systems, both
those in service and reserve, shall be inspected and maintained on
a regular basis. Records shall be kept of the tests and made
available to the RWQCB. -
g. This Order does not convey any property rights or exclusive
pr'ivileges. The requirements prescribed 'herein do not authorize
the commission of any act causing injury to persons or property, do
not protect the discharger from liability under Federal, State, or
local laws, and do not create a vested right to continue to'discharge
wastewater.
h. This Order does not relieve the discharger from responsibility to
obtain other necessary local, State, and Federal permits to
construct facilities necessary for ,compliance with this Order, nor
does this Order prevent imposition of additional standards,
requirements, or conditions by any other regulatory agency.
i. The discharger shall allow the RWQCB or an authorized
representative, upon presentation of credentials and other
documents as may be required by law, to:
(1) Enter upon the premises where a regulated facility or activity
is located or conducted or where records must be kept
under the conditions of this Order;
(2) Have accessto and copy at reasonable times eny records
that shall be kept under the conditions of this Order;
(3) Inspect, at reasonable times, any facilities, equipment,
practices, or operations regulated or required under this
Order; and
(4) Sample, photograph, video record, andlor monitor at
reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring compliance
with this Order or as otherwise authorized by the CWC, any
substances or,parameters at this location. -
j. . All regulated disposal systems shall be readily accessible for
sampling and inspection.
k. The SWRCB will review this order periodically and will revise .
requirements when necessary.
I. . Paragraphs of this Order are severable. If any paragraph is found
invalid, the remaining paragraphs shall not be affected. .
m. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, coverage of an individual
discharge under this Order may be terminated or modified for
cause, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Violation of any term or condition contained in this Order;
(2) obtaining this Order by misrepresentation or failure to
disclose all relevant facts;
(3) A change in any condition that requires. either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized
discharge.
The filing of a request by the discharger for an Order modification,
revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any
condition of this Order.
n. The discharger shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any
information the RWQCB or the SWRCB may request to determine
whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or
terminating the discharger's coverage under this Order.. The
Discharger shall also furnish to the RWQCB or the SWRCB, upon
request, copies of records required to be kept by this Order.
o. Unless otherwise approved by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive
Officer, all analyses shall be conducted at a laboratory certified for
such analyses by the State Department of Health services. All
analyses shall be conducted in accordance with the latest edition of
"Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants", promulgated by the U. S. Environmental Protection
Agency (U.S. EPA).
p. The discharger shall retain records of all monitoring information
including all calibration and maintenance records, copies of all
reports required by this Order, and records of all data used to
complete the application for this Order. Records shall be -
maintained for a minimum of three yezrs from the date of the
sample, measurement, or report. This period may be extended
during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding this
discharge or when requested by the appropriate RWQCB's
' Executive Officer.
q. The discharger shall immediately remove any wastes which are
discharged at the site regulated by this Order in violation of these
requirements.
r. All performed maintenance and noncompliance issues shall be
reported with the monitoring reports as required.
I
I
s. Adequate measures shall be taken to assure that unauthorized -
persons are effectively excluded from contact with the wastewater
. . disposal facility(s).
. t. The discharger shall comply with all of the conditions of this Order.
Any noncompliance with this Order constitutes a violation of the
Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act andlor appropriate Basin
Plan and is grounds for an enforcement action.
u. Waste treatment facilities subject to this Order shall be supervised
and operated by persons possessing certificates of appropriate
grade pursuant to Division 4, Chapter 14, Title 23 CCR.
v. The discharger shall comply with all of the conditions contained in
the Standard Provisions included with this Order as Attachment B.
2. For Septic Systems, the Following Additional Provisions Apply:
a. All employees ~f the regulated facility shall receive training on how
to minimize pollutant discharges to the septic system. This
instruction should include the following topics:
(1) Proper disposal of materials handled at the regulated facility.
(2) Methods to wash tools and other objects so that no
contaminants are introduced into the septic system.
(3) Methods to wash hands so that no contaminants are
introduced into the septic system.
b. . Any off-site disposal of septage shall be only to a legal point of .
disposal, with the approval.of the legal disposal site operator. For
purposes of these requirements, a legal disposal site is one'for
which requirements have been established by the'approprkte .-
RWQCB and which is in full compliance therewith. Any septage
handling shall be in such a manner as to prevent its reaching
surface waters or watercourses.
3. For Activated Sludge'and Aerated Pond Systems, the Following
Additional Provisions Apply:
a. The Discharger shall obtain prior written approval from the
appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer specifying location and
method of disposal before disposing of treated or untreated sludge
or similar solid waste materials. Such written approval is valid until
a change in the manner or location of disposal occurs, or until the
discharger is otherwise notified by the appropriate RWQCB's
Executive Officer. In addition, the discharger shall provide the .
results of any sludge analyses as specified by the RWQCB's
Executive Officer.
b. The discharger shall provide safeguards to electric power failure as
follows:
(1) The discharger, within ninety (90) days of the effective date
of this Order, shall submit to the appropriate RWQCB for
approval a description of the existing safeguards provided to
assure that, should there be reduction, loss, or failure of
electric power, the discharger shall comply with the terms
and conditions of its Order. Such safeguards may include
alternate power sources, standby generators, retention
capacity, operating procedures, or other means. A
description of the safeguards provided shall include an
analysis of the frequency, duration, and impact of power
failures experienced over the past five years or from time of
start-up, whichever is shorter, on effluent quality and on the
capability of the discharger to comply with the terms and
conditions of the Order. The appropriate RWQCB shall
determine whether the safeguards are adequate.
(2) Should the RWQCB not approve the existing safeguards,
the discharger, within ninety (90) days of having been
advised by the appropriate RWQCB that the existing
safeguards are inadequate, shall provide to the RWQCB a
schedule of compliance for providing safeguards such that in
the event of reduction, loss, or failure of electric power, the
permittee will comply with the terms and conditions of this
Order. The schedule of compliance, upon approval of the
appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer, shall become a ..
condition of this Order as it applies to the specific
discharger.
(3) 'If the discharger already has an approved plan(s), the plan
shall be revised and updated as speciiied in the plan or
whenever there has been a material change in design or
operation. A revised plan shall be submitted to the
appropriate RWQCB within ninety (90) days of the material
change.
4. For Subsurface Disposal Systems, the Following Additional '
Provisions Apply:
New small domestic systems shall reserve sufficient land area for possible -
future 100 percent replacement of the subsurface disposal area until such
time as the discharger's facility is connected to a municipal sewerage
system.
Certification
' The undersigned, Administrative Assistant to the SWRCB, does hereby certify that the
foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of an order duly and regularly adopted at a
meeting of the State Water Resources Control Board held on November 18, 1997.
AYE: John Caffrey
James M. Stubchaer -
Marc Del Piero .
Mary Jane Forster
John W. Brown
NO: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None
~dministrative Assistant. to the Board
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 97-10-DWQ
FOR
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS (WDRs)
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTE SYSTEMS
Septic Tank Monitoring
. Effluent Monitoring
Monitoring of septic tank effluent shall include the following: t
Parameter
Flow . Units Type of
~arnd~e Samplina Frequency
~stimate . Monthly
 low estimates may be obtained from water meter readings.
Maintenance and lnspection
I
Septic tanks shall be inspected and pumped as described below. An inspection is not
required during the year a septictank is pumped.
Parameter Type of ' Minimum
Units Measurement Inspection Fre~uency
Sludge depth and scum Feet Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
thickness in each compartment year)
of each septic tank -
Distance between bottom of lnches Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
scum layer and bottom of year)'
outlet device
Distance between top of Inches Staff Gauge Annually (by April of each
sludge layer and bottom of year)
outlet device
Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exist, or may . . , ... occur before the next inspection:
a. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one-third of the tank depth - of the first compartment; or,
b. The scum layer is within three inches of the outlet device; or,
c. The sludge layer is within eight inches of the outlet device.
In lieu of septic tank measuring, the septic tank may be pumped annually.
Activated Sludoe Systems Monitorinq ,
Influent Monitorinq
Monitoring of Activated Sludge System influent shall consist of the following:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequency
Daily Flow GalsJday -- Daily
20°C BOD5 mgll . 24-hr composite Monthly
Total Suspended Solids mgll . 24-hr composite . Monthly
Effluent Monitorinq
Monitoring of Activated Sludge systems' effluent shall consist of the following:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequency
20'~ BOD5 mgll 24-hr composite weekly1
Total suspended' Solids rngll 24-hr composite weekly1
Nitrate as NO3-N mg/l Grab. weekly1
Total Nitrogen . mgll Grab weekly '
Total Coliform MPNI Grab weekly1 - .I 00 ml
Effluent sampling shall be conducted concurrently with influent monitoring. The total
average daily flow sh.all be calculated . . on a monthly basis. Time of collection of grab.
samples shall be recorded.
If the discharge is intermittent rather than continuous, then on the first day of each such
intermittent discharge, the discharger shall monitor and record data for all of the
parameters listed above, after which the frequencies of analysis given in the schedules
shall apply for the duration of each such intermittent discharge. In no event shall the
discharger be required to monitor and record data more often than twice the
frequencies listed in the schedules.
Aerated Pond Systems  on it or in^ . .
Influent Monitoring
Monitoring of Aerated pond Systems' influent shall consist of the following:
Parameter Units Type of
Sample Samplina Frequencv
Daily Flow Galsldav -- - - --J
20°C BOD5 mg/l
Total Suspended Solids ' mgfl Grab
Grab Daily
Monthly, -
Monthly.
Monitoring of Aerated Pond System effluent shall consist of the following
Parameter Type of
Units -&D,& . Samplina Freauencv
20°C BOD5 mgll Grab weekly1
Total Suspended Solids mgll Grab wee klyl
Nitrate as NO3-N 'mgfl Grab wee klyl
Total Nitrogen mgfl Grab weekly1
Total Coliform , MPN/lOOml Grab weekly1
Effluent sampling shall be conducted concurrently with influent monitoring. The total
average daily flow shall be calculated on a monthly basis. Time of collection of grab
samples shall be recorded.
If the discharge is intermittent rather than continuous, then on the first day of each such
intermittent discharge, the discharger shall monitor and record data for all of thz
parameters listed above, after which the frequencies of analysis given in the schedules
shall apply for the duration of each such intermittent discharge. In no event shall the
discharger be required to monitor and record data more often than twice the
frequencies listed in the schedules.
1 For the purpose of this Order, a Weekly monitoring frequency will mean that a sample
shall be taken once every eight days. For example, your first sample is taken on Monday,
the next sample shall be taken on the following Tuesday (eight days later). Alternate ' .
schedules may be discussed with the appropriate RWQCB.
Disposal Monitoring
PondlBasin Monitoring
Samples should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of
collection of grab samples shall be recorded. Samples shall be collected'at a depth of .
one foot from each pondlbasin opposite the inlet. Samples shall be collected between
0800 and 0900 hours. The following shall constitute UNLINED pondlbasin monitoring:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequency "
PH pH Units Grab Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen mgll Grab Monthly
Nitrate as NO,-N mgll Grab Monthly
Total Nitrogen mgll - Grab Monthly
Pond Freeboard feet Measurement Monthly
pH monitoring shall be conducted using field measurement devices, or by grab sample
delivered to an analytical laboratory.
The following shall constitute' LINED pondlbasin monitoring:
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Sampling Frequencv
Dissolved Oxygen mgll Grab Monthly
Pond Freeboard feet Measurement Month.1~ .
Recreation Vehicle (RV) Waste Wlonitorinq
A facility that accepts waste from RVs or other mobile waste systems shall monitor their
small domestic system effluent for the following additional constituents: -
Type of
Parameter Units Sample Samplina Frequencv
Formaldehyde mgll Grab 'Quarterly
Zinc mg/l Grab .. Quarterly
, Phenol mg/l Grab Quartefly
N as Ammonium mg/l Grab Quarterly
Samples shall be 'collected from locations within the waste stream where the effluent is
representative of the treatment process. For septic tanks, this monitoring is not
required, unless a convenient sampling location, as determined by RWQCB staff, is
available. For activated sludge systems, this will be at the effluent outlet. For
pondslbasins, this will be at the opposite end of the pondlbasin from the inlet at a depth
of one foot from the surface of the pondlbasin.
Reporting -
With the exception of non-RV waste septic tank monitoring (pg. I), monitoring reports
shall be submitted to the appropriate Regional Water Quality Control ~oakd (RWQCB)
by the 15th day of the following month. Quarterly reports shall be submitted by
January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year. Annual reports shall be
submitted by January 15 of the following year. For non-RV waste septic tank systems,
only an Annual report is due by January 15 of the following year.
In reporting the monitoring data, the discharger shall arrange the data.in tabular form so
that the date, the constituents, and the concentrations are 'readily discernible. The data
shall be summarized in such a manner to illustrate clearly whether the discharge
complies with WDRs. The highest daily maximum for the month, monthly and weekly
averages, and removal efficiencies (%) for Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and.
Total Suspended Solids should be determined and recorded. For non-RV septic
systems, an average daily flow shall be calculated using the arithmetic mean of the
monthly values obtained throughout the reporting period.
Records of monitoring information shall include:
a. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurement(s);
b. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurement(s);
c. The date(s) analysis were performed;
d. The individual(s) who performed the analysis;
e. The analytical techniques or method used; and
f. The results of such analysis.
If the discharger monitors any p.ollutant at the locations designated herein more
frequently than is required by this Order, the~esults df such monitoring shall be .
included in the calculation and reporting of the values required in the discharge
monitoring report form. Such increased frequency shall be indicated on the discharge
monitoring report form. -
The discharger shall submit an annual report to the appropriate2~~~~~ by January 15
of each year. The report shall contain both tabular and graphical summaries of the
monitoring data obtained during the previous year. In addition, the Discharger shall
discuss the compliance record and the corrective actions taken or planned which may.
be needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the general WDRs.
Some RWQCBs are implementing electronic submittal of monitoring reports. If this is of
interest to you, please contact the appropriate RWQCB for more information.
All reports submitted in response to these general WDRs shall comply with the
signatory requirements of standard Provision B.2.
The discharger shall implement the above monitoring. program on the first day of the
month following the effective date of coverage under these.general WDRs.
ATTACHMENT B
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD (SWRCB)
STANDARD PROVISIONS AND REPORTING FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
A. General Provisions
1. Dutv to Mitigate
The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any
discharge in violation of this Order which has a reasonable likelihood of
adversely affecting human health or the environment, including such
accelerated or additional monitoring as requested by the appropriate
Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) or Executive Officer to
determine the nature and impact of the violation.
2. 'Dutv to Comblv
. .
The discharger must comply with all conditions of these waste discharge
requirements. Violations may result in enforcement actions, including
Regional Board orders or court orders requiring corrective action or imposing
civil monetary liability, or in modification or revocation of these waste
discharge requirements by the Regional Board. [California Water Code
(CWC) sections 13261, 13263, 13265, 13268, 13300, 13301, 13304, and
133501 I
3. Change in Ownership
The discharger must notify the Executive Officer, in writing at least 30 days
in advance of any proposed transfer of this Order's responsibility a&
coverage to a new discharger. The notice must include a written agreement
between the existing and new discharger containing a specific date for the
transfer of this Order's responsibility and coverage between the current
discharger and the new discharger. This agreement shall include an
acknowledgment that the'existing discharger is liable forviolations uo to the
transfer date and that the new discharger;s liable from the transfer date on.
[CWC 13267 and 132631
4. Termination
. ,
Where the discharger becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant
facts. in a Report of Wzste Discharge or submitted incorrect information in a
Report of Wzste Discharge or in any report submitted the Regional Board, it
shall promptly submit such facts or informstion. [CWC 13260 and 132671
5. Hazardous Releases
Except for a discharge which is in compliance with these waste discharge
requirements, any person who, .without regard to intent or negligence,
causes or permits any hazardous substance or sewage to be discharged in
or on any waters of the State, or discharged or deposited where it is, or
probably will be, discharged in or on any waters of the State, shall, as soon
as (a) that person has knowledge of the discharge, (b)'notification is
possible, and (c) notification can be provided without substantially impeding
cleanup or other emergency measures, immediately notify the Office of
Emergency Services of the discharge in accordance with the spill reporting
provision of the State toxic disaster contingency plan adopted pursuant to
Article 3.7 (commericing with Section 8574.7) of Chapter 7 of Division 1 of
Title 2 of the Government Code, and immediately notify the State Board or
the appropriate Regional Board of the discharge. This provision does not
require reporting of any discharge of less than a reportable quantity as
provided for under silbdivisions (f) and (g) of Section 13271 of the Water
Code unless the discharger is in violation of a prohibition in the applicable
Wzter Quality Control Plan (Basin Plan). [CWC 1327.1 (a)]
6. Treatment Failure -
In an enforcement action, it shall not be a defense for the discharger that it
would have been necessary to halt or to reduce the permitted activity in
order to maintain compliance with this Order. Upon reduction, loss, or failure
of the treatment facility, the discharger shall, to the extent necessary to
maintain compliance with-this Order, control production or all discharges, or
both, until the facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment is
provided. This provision applies, for example, when the primary source of
power of the treatment faciiity fails, is reduced, or is lost. [CWC 13263 (f)]
7. ~ndan~erment of Health and Environment
The discharger shall report any noncompliance that may endanger health or
the environment. Any information shall be provided orally within 24 hours.
from the time the discharger becomes aware of the circumstances. A written
submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the discharger
becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain
(1) a description of the noncompliance and its cause, (2) the period of
noncompliance, including exact dates and times; (3) if the noncompliance
has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
(4) the steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the noncompliance. The appropriate RWQCB Executive
Officer or an authorized representative may waive the written report on a
ca'se-byLcase basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours. The
following shall be included as information that must be reported within 24
hours:
(I) Any bypass from any portion of the treatment facility.
(2) Any discharge of treated oi untreated wastewater resulting
from sewer line breaks, obstruction, surcharge or any other
circumstances.
(3) Any treatment plant upset which causes the effluent limitation
of this Order to be exceeded. '
[CWC 13.263 and 132671
'8. Operator Certification
Supervisors and operators of municipal wastewater treatment plants and
privately owned facilities regulated by the PUG, used in the treatment or
reclamation of sewage and industrial waste shall possess a certificate of
appropriate grade in accordance with Title 23, California Code of
Regulations Section 3680.' State Boards may accept experience in lieu of
qualification training. In lieu of a properly certified. wastewater treatment
plant operator, the State Board may approve use of a waste treatment plant
operator of appropriate grade certified by the State Department of Health
Services where' reclamation is involved.
Each plant shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
operation and maintenance manual prepared by the municipality through the
Clean Water Grant Program. [CWC Title 23, Section 2233(d)]
B. Monitorinq and Reportina Reauirements I . I
1. Monitoring and Records [Title 23, (CaliforniaCode of Regulations (CCR),
Div. 3, Chapter 14:] '
a'. Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring
shall be representative of the monitored activity.
Records of monitoring information shall include: .
(1) The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements;
(2) The individual(s) who performed the sampling or
measurements;
(3) The date(s) analyses were performed;
(4). The individual(s) who performed the analysis;
(5) The analytical techniques or methods used; and.
(6) The reiults of such analyses.
c. Monitoring results must be conducted according to test procedures
under 40 CFR Part 136 or, in the case of sludge use or disposal,
approved under 40 CFR Pad 136 unless otherwise specifieun
40 CFR Part 503 or unless other test procedures have been
specified in this permit.
Sianatory Reauirements [40 CFR 122.41(k)][40 CFR 122.221
a. All appfication reports or information to be submitted to the RWQCB
Executive Officer shall be signed and certified as follows: . ,
(1) For a corporation: by a principal executive officer or at least
the level of vice president;
(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner
or the proprietor, respectively; or
(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: by .
either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official.
For purposes of this provision, a principal executive officer of a
Federal agency includes: the chief executive officer having
responsibility for the overall operations of a principal
geographic unit of the agency (e.g., Regional Administrators of
U.S EPA):
b. All reports required by this Order and other information requested by
the RWQCB, or SWRCB shall be signed by a person described in
paragraph (a) of this provision or by a duly authorized representative
of that person. A person is a' duly authorized representative only if
. (1) The authorization is made in writing by a person, described in
paragraph (a) of this provision;
(2) The authorization specified either an individual or a position
'having responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated
facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well or a well field, superintendent, position of
equivalent responsibility, or an individual or position having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company (a duly'authorized representative may thus be either
a named individual or any individual occupying a named
position) and,
(3) The written authorization is submitted to the RWQCB
Executive Officer.
c. If an authorization under paragraph (b) ofthis provision is nfionger '
accurate because a different'individuil or position has responsibility
for the overall operation of the facility, a new authorization satisfying
the requirements of paragraph (b) of this provision must be submitted
to the RWQCB Executive Officer prior to or together with any reports,
information, or applications, to be signed by an authorized
representative.
Any person signing a document under paragraph (a) or (b) of this
provision shall make the following certification:
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all .
attachments were prepared under my direction or
supervision in accordance with a system designed to
assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry
of the person or persons who manage the system or
those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of .
my knowledge and. belief, true, accurate, and complete. I
am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of
fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
[CWC 13263,13267, and 132681 1
. . 3. ~onitorina Reports .
a. Monitoring results shall be reported at the intervals specified in the
permit.
b. Monitoring results must be reported on a Discharge Monitoring
Report (DMR) form or forms approved by the RWQCB or SWRCB for
reporting results of monitoring of pollutants and sludge use or
disposal practices.
c. Calculations for all limitations which require averaging of
measurements shall utilize an arithmetic mean unless othezse
specified in this permit.
4. Planned Chanaes
The discharger shall file with the appropriate RWQCB a report of waste
discharge at least 120 days before making any material change or proposed .
change in the character, location or volume of the discharge.
5. Com~liance Schedules
Reports of compliance or noncompliance with interim and final requirements
contained in any compliance schedule of this permit shall be submitted no
later than 14 days following each schedule date. If reporting noncompliance,
the report shall include a description of the reason for failure to comply, a
description and schedule of tasks necessary to achieve compliance and an
estimated date for achieving full compliance. A final report shall be
submitted within ten working days of achieving full compliance, documenting
full compliance.
6. Other Noncompliance
. .
The discharger shall report all instances of noncompliance not reported
. under Provisions (B.3)', (B.4), and (B.5) at'the time monitoring reports are
submitted. The reports shall contain the information listed in Provision (8.5).
7. Other Information
When the discharger becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant
facts in a permit application or submitted incorrect information in a permit
application, or in any report to the RWQCB, the discharger shall promptly,
submit such facts or'information.
8. False Reporting
Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or.
certification in any record or other document submitted or required to be
main'tained under this Order, including monitoring reports or reports of
compliance or noncompliance shall be subject to enforcement procedures as - identified in the Order and/or in these Standard Provisions.
9. Anticipated Noncompliance
The discharger shall give.advance notice to the RWQCB of any planned '
changes in the permitted facility or activity which may result in
noncompliance with permit requirements.
'I. . . ---- ') . ' .' , . I. ,
4 r' . . . .
. .I ' I
C. 'EnforcementProvisions .
. \
1. The provisions in this enforcement section shall not act as a limitation on the
statutory or regulatory authority of the appropriate RWQCB or SWRCB.
2. Any violation of this Order constitutes violation of the California Water Code
and regulations adopted thereunder and is basis for enforcement action,
permit termination, permit revocation and reissuance, denial of an
application for permit reissuance or a combination thereof.
3. The appropriate RWQCB may impose administrative civil liability, may refer
a discharger to the State ~ttorne~ General to seek civil monetary penalties,
may seek injunctive relief, or take other appropriate enforcement action as
provided in the California Water Code or federal law for violation of SWRCB
or RWQCB orders.
4. It shall not be a defense for a discharger in an enforcement action that it
would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order
. to maintain compliance with the conditions of this Order.