wastewater treatment and disposa l.

b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding wastewater disposal for
emergency and routine situations.

All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.

The D ischarger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.


 Ordered by:
 GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer

 28 July 1999
 (Date)

SH:fmc:7/28/99

 INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER NO. 99 -106
JOSEPH HANNEGAN
LAKESIDE TRAILER PARK
TULARE COUNTY

Joseph Hannegan owns and operates a trailer home park cal led Lakeside Trailer Park. The trailer
park is at Lake Success, about one half mile southwest of Success Reservoir.

The park consists of 95 trailer home spaces. Wastewater is treated in nine septic tanks and
disposed at seven leachfields. The park has been designed for a maximum flow of 16,700
gallons per day.

The average annual rainfall in the area is 11 inches and annual average pan evaporation rate is
82 inches.

The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin (Basin Plan) prescribes a maxi mum
conductivity (EC) of domestic wastewater discharges to land of the EC of source water plus
500 mhos/cm. But the Basin Plan also states that the incremental increase in salts from use and
treatment must be controlled to the maximum extent possible. T he park receives only domestic
wastes and has no RV dumpstation. Therefore, the Order limits the incremental increase in EC
to source water EC plus 300 mhos/cm.

The Basin Plan specifies criteria for septic tanks and leaching systems. The Order includes
minimum set back distances of septic tanks and leachfields from wells, property line, lakes and
reservoirs, and flowing streams, based on the Basin Plan criteria.

The Natural Soil Conservation Service classified surface soils beneath the site as Portervi lle clay.
This soil was formed in alluvium derived from weathered basic igneous rock. This soil exhibits
slow permeability. Soil depths exceed the minimum requirement of five feet specified in the
Basin Plan. The Department of Water Resources’ (DWR) qua drangle map of the area shows that
ground slope of the site is less than 5%. This satisfies the Basin Plan minimum criteria for septic
tank and leachfield systems.

Based on the information obtained from DWR, the depth of groundwater in the area is about
40 feet below ground surface. DWR records show that since 1964 the depth of groundwater has
been greater than the minimum five feet required in the Basin Plan for septic tank and leachfield
systems

This Order includes groundwater limitations based on the Basin Plan.


INFORMATION SHEE T- ORDER NO. 99 -106 -2-
JOSEPH HANNEGAN
LAKESIDE TRAILER PARK
TULARE COUNTY


This Order requires the Discharger to either pump the septic tanks at least annually or inspect it
annually to make sure that the septic system operates effectively so that neither solids nor grease
are carried over to the leachfields. To a ssure that pumped septage from the septic tanks is
properly handled and dumped at an authorized place for effective treatment, the Order requires
the Discharger to use only licensed septic tank cleaning services.

Small septic tank/leachfield systems are not usually a threat to groundwater provided they are in
conformance to the Board’s policies and guidelines, are not too dense, and the nitrogen
discharged is a normal amount. The discharge at this site appears to conform to the Board’s
policies and guid elines, is quite a distance from any other systems, and consists of just domestic
waste. Therefore, it is not expected to impact groundwater. The Order requires the Discharger to
monitor the effluent for nitrogen to characterize the effluent nitrogen qua lity under normal
operating conditions.

This is an existing facility and the action to update requirements is exempt from the provisions of
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in accordance with Title 14, CCR, Section
15301.

SH:fmc:7/28/99