wastewater
treatment and disposal.

b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding wastewater disposal for
emergency and routine situations.

All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in Standard
Provisio n B.3.

The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.


 Ordered by:
 GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer

 29 October 1999
 (Date)

SH:fmc:10/29/99

INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER NO. 99 -143
MYRON SMITH
QUAIL VALLEY RECREATIONAL PARK
TULARE COUNTY

Myron Smith owns and operates a cam pground called Quail Valley Recreational Park near California
Hot Springs. The campground is about 1.5 miles west of California Hot Springs and is located adjacent
to Deer Creek.

The campground consists of 15 camper trailer spaces and 89 campsites. Wastewater is treated in two
septic tanks and disposed at two leachfields. The leachfield, which is situated at the west end of the
campground, is 150 feet from the high water channel of Deer Creek. The septic tank on the east end of
the campground is adjacen t to a flood plain channel of Deer Creek. It is sealed to provide protection
from inundation from a 100 -year flood. The septic tank is connected to a lift station and this is also
sealed to provide protection from inundation from a 100 -year flood. The leachfield associated with this
septic tank is 500 feet away from the 100 -year flood line. The campground has been designed for a
maximum flow of 5,000 gallons per day.

Based on the information obtained from DWR Bulletin No. 195, October 1976, the annual average
rainfall in the area is 23 inches. Based on the DWR Bulletin No. 73 -99, November 1979, the average
annual pan evaporation rate at Lake Isabella is 87 inches. Lake Isabella is about 25 miles southeast and
80 to 100 feet lower in elevation than the campsite.

The Order has a EC limit of source water EC plus 500 mhos/cm. This is based on the maximum
allowable limit in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition (Basin
Plan). The treatment facility receives wastes at it s dump station that may cause the effluent to approach
the maximum allowable limit.

The Basin Plan specifies criteria for septic tanks and leaching systems. The Order includes minimum set
back distances of septic tanks and leachfields from wells, property line, lakes and reservoirs, and flowing
streams, based on the Basin Plan criteria. The septic tank on the east end of the campground is not in
conformance with the set back requirement. But the tank and its lift station are sealed to provide
protection against inundation from a 100 -year flood. This satisfies the intent of the set back requirement
in the Basin Plan.

Soils at the east leachfield area consist of six feet of sandy loam over eight feet of decomposed granitic
rock. Solid rock exists at a depth of 14 feet. Percolation rate at this site ranges from 11 to 21 minutes
per inch. An overburden of nearly 12 feet of native soil and about 50 feet of decomposed granitic rock
overlying a massive mesozoic granitic rock formation exists at the west lea chfield area. The subsoil
consists of coarse to fine sandy loam and is considered to be moderate to highly permeable. Percolation
rate at the west leachfield area is approximately 10 minutes per inch. The depth of the soil, percolation
rates, and the ground slopes of the disposal sites satisfy the minimum criteria for septic tanks and
leachfield systems specified in the Basin Plan.
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. 99 -143 -2-
MYRON SMITH
QUAIL VALLEY RECREATIONAL PARK
TULARE COUNTY


Groundwater in the area occurs in decomposed granitic rock and in fractures. The depth of groundwater
varies with the depth of overburden.

This Order includes groundwater limitations based on the Basin Plan.

This Order requires the Discharger to either pump the septic tanks at least annually or inspect it annually
to make sure that the septic system operates effectively so that neither solids nor grease are carried over
to the leachfields. To assure that pumped septage from the septic tanks is properly handled and dumped
at an authorized place for effective treatment, the Order requires the Discharger to use only licensed
septic tank cleaning services.

Chemicals used for control of odors in RV tanks usually contain formaldehyde, zinc, and phenols as
active ingredients. These chemicals are toxic at certain concentrations. The Order includes narrative
language that requires the discharge to be such that these chemical constituents will not adversely affect
the treatment system and affect groundwater. Also, the Discharger is required to monitor these
constituents annually.

Small septic tank/leachfield systems are not usua lly a threat to groundwater provided they are in
conformance to the Board’s policies and guidelines, are not too dense, and the nitrogen discharged is a
normal amount. The discharge at this site appears to conform to the Board’s policies and guidelines, is
quite a distance from any other systems, and consists of just domestic waste. Therefore, it is not
expected to impact groundwater. The Order requires the Discharger to monitor the effluent for nitrogen
to characterize the effluent nitrogen quality unde r normal operating conditions.

This is an existing facility and the action to update requirements is exempt from the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in accordance with Title 14, CCR, Section 15301.

SH:fmc:10/29/99