existing facility and, as such, is
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code,
Section 21100 et. seq) in accordance with Section 15301, Chapter 3, Title 14,
California Code of Regulations.
9. The Regional Board has notified the discharger and other interested agencies and
persons of its intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for the discharge and
has provided them with an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
10. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to
the discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDEREDIT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the discharger, in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder
and the provisions /of the Clean Water Act and regulations and guidelines adopted
thereunder, shall comply with the following:
A.A. Discharge Prohibitions:Discharge Prohibitions:
1. The discharge of wastes to property not owned or controlled by the discharger is
prohibited.
2. The discharge of highly mineralized wastes to the ground is prohibited.
3. Odors, vectors, and other nuisances of sewage origin are prohibited outside of the
treatment plant site or ponds.
4. The discharge of any substances in concentrations toxic t o human, animal, plant or
aquatic life is prohibited
5. The discharge to any pond with less than 18 inches of freeboard is prohibited.
B.B. Discharge Specifications:Discharge Specifications:
1. The discharge of wastes or use of wastewater containing a monthly average
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) constituent concentration in excess of 45 mg/l
is prohibited.
Order No. 99-41 Page 3 of 4
Silent Valley Club, Inc.
2.a. The discharge of wastes or use of wastewater containing an annual average Total
Dissolved Solids (TDS) constituent concentration in excess of 500 mg/l is
prohibited.
2.b. The discharge of wastes containing an annual average TDS concentration which
exceeds the annual average TDS concentration in the water supply by more than 250
mg/l is prohibited.
For Discharge Specifications 2.a. and 2.b., whichever limitation results in the lower
average TDS concentration shall be controlling.
3. The pH of the discharge shall at all times be within the range of 6.5 and 8.5 pH
units.
C.C. Provisions:Provisions:
1. The discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 99-41 as
ordered by the Executive Officer of the Regional Board. This monitoring and
reporting program may be modified by the Executive Officer at any time during the
term of this order, and may include a reduction or an increase in the number of
parameters to be monitored, the frequency of the monitoring, or the number and
size of samples collected.
2. Neither the treatment nor the discharge of wastes shall cause or threaten to cause a
nuisance or pollution as defined in Section 13050 of the California Water Code.
3. The treatment and disposal facilities shall be protected from a 100-year frequency
flood.
4. The discharger shall file with the Board a report of waste discharge at least 120 days
before making any material change or proposed change in the character, location,
or volume of the discharge or in the operator or property ownership of any portions
of the facility identified in this order.
5. The discharger shall maintain a copy of this order at the site so that it is available at
all times to site operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with
its contents.
6. Collected screenings, sludge, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer.
Order No. 99-41 Page 4 of 4
Silent Valley Club, Inc.
7. The discharger shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or
used by the discharger to achieve compliance with the conditions of this order.
Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls,
appropriate quality assurance procedures, effective performance, adequate funding,
adequate staffing and training and adequate process controls. This provision
requires the operation of back up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems which are
installed by a discharger only when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance
with the conditions of the order.
8. Whenever the discharger monitors any pollutant more frequently than is required by
this order, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the calculation and
reporting of the data submitted in the discharge monitoring report specified by the
Executive Officer.
9. The requirements prescribed herein do not authorize the commission of any act
causing injury to the property of another, nor protect the discharger from his
liabilities under federal, state, or local laws.
10. This order does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive
privilege.
11. The Regional Board, and other authorized represen tatives shall be allowed:
a. Entry upon premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or
conducted, or where records are kept under the conditions of this order;
b. Access to copy any records that are kept under the conditions of the order;
c. To inspect any facility , equipment (including monitoring and control
equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this order;
and
d. To photograph, sample and monitor for the purpose of assuring compliance
with this order.
12. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge
that has a reasonable likelihood of adversely affecting human health or the
environment.
13. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize any adverse impact to
Order No. 99-41 Page 5 of 4
Silent Valley Club, Inc.