FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger is a public agency that provides wholesale water to local utility
companies and municipal water departments within its service area. The
Discharger provides potable water and recycled water to 17 cities and
unincorporated areas of southwest Los Angeles County. The Carson WRP is
owned by the Discharger and is located at 21029 South Wilmington Avenue,
Carson, California. The Carson WRP provides advanced treatment of disinfected
tertiary recycled water produced at the Discharger’s Edward C. Litt le Water
Recycling Facility (ECLWRF), located approximately 10 miles northwest of the
Carson WRP . The influent to ECLWRF is secondary -treated wastewater from the
Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant (Hyperion WRP). The disinfected tertiary
recycled water from ECLWRF is also used at schools, golf courses, parks,
medians, and dual plumbed systems throughout the district before reaching the
Carson WRP. The disinfected tertiary recycled water is continuously treated by
microfiltration and rever se osmosis for refine ry boiler feed, or by nitrification at
the Carson WRP for refinery cooling towers. The reverse osmosis brine is the
only waste stream produced at the Carson WRP that discharges to the Pacific
WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2024-0146
JUANITA MILLENDER -MCDONALD CARSON REGIONAL
WATER RECYCLING PLANT NPDES NO. CA0 064246
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 02/22/2024 F-8Ocean (see section 2.2 of Attachment F for detailed information), via the Warren
Facility outfalls, a water of the United States. All other wastes from the treatment
processes at the Carson WRP are discharged to the sanitary sewer.
The Carson WRP currently has a total design treatment capacity of 7.15 MGD
and consists of two treatment trains. The first treatment train produces
approximately 5 MGD advanced -treated recycled water by treating disinfected
tertiar y recycled water from the ECLWRF with microfiltration (MF) , reverse
osmosis (RO), and decarbonation. Approximately 0.9 MGD of reverse osmosis
brine is produced during this process and is discharged to the ocean. This design
flow of brine only accounts for the use of three out of f our RO trains and does not
include future refinery demands expected within the next five years. The increase
in production with all four RO trains in service would equate to 1.2 MGD of brine
discharge. The permeate (recycled water produced from the RO process) is used
for boiler feed water or mixed with nitrified water for use in cooling towers at the
Marathon Refinery, located approximately 1.15 miles south of the Carson WRP .
The second treatment train produces approximately 1. 25 MGD nitrified recycled
water by treating disinfected tertiary recycled water from ECLWRF by using
nitrification in a Biofor® biofiltration system and break -point chlorination. The
recycled water from the nitrification system is used for cooling towers at the
Marathon Refinery. The other waste streams produced at the Carson WRP are
discharged to the sanitary sewer. Biosolids are only processed at ECLWRF, not
at the Carson WRP. Since the Carson WRP only processes disinfected tertiary
recycled water, biosolids requirements are not incl uded in this Order.
Water Reclamation . The Carson WRP has separate Waste Discharge
Requirements and Water Recycling Requirements that govern the use of tertiary
and advanced treated recycled water. Order No. 01-043 (amended by Order No.
R4-2002 -0173) serves as water recycling requirements for the production and
use of disinfected tertiary recycled water for irrigation , industrial or commercial
cooling towers, boiler feed water , street cleaning, and sewer flushing. Since the
Carson WRP has separate regulatory coverage for these discharges,
requirements related to the produc tion and use of recycled water (besides
volumetric reporting) are not included in this Order.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
To increase microfiltration treatment capacity, the installation of custom
engineered microfiltration systems began in June 2021 as a part of the Phase II
Expansion Project . The new microfiltration system s will improve system
redundancy and service reliability by enhancing microfiltration treatment
capability, and allowing for cleaning, backwash and down time during treatment
processes while still maintaining production. The new system is expected to be
operational in December 2023 and will not increase brine flow beyond the
permitted flow of 1.2 MGD .
3.