FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, which is located at 4950 Eastgate Mall, San
Diego, CA 92121. The Facility provides wastewater treatment to approximately 350,300 residents
within the boundaries of Sorrento Valley/Torrey Pines, Miramar, Mira Mesa, Scripps Ranch, the City of Del Mar, and the City of Poway within the NCWRP sewershed. With implementation of the North City Project, the first phase of the Pure Water San Diego Program (Pure Water Program) the service area will be expanded to include the Morena Pump Station sewershed which
encompasses the communities of Mission Beach, Pacific Beach, La Jolla, Clairemont, Kearny
Mesa, Mission Valley/Mission Gorge, East San Diego in the City of San Diego, service areas of the Padre Dam Municipal Water District, Alpine Sanitation District and Winter Gardens Sanitation District; and portions of the Cities of La Mesa and El Cajon.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Control
Construction and operation of the Facility is known as the North City Pure Water Project, and
it is the first phase of the City’s Pure Water Program, a multi-year program projected to
produce up to 83 MGD of advanced treated recycled water and provide one-third of San Diego’s water supply demand by the year 2035. The North City Pure Water Project includes an expansion of the NCWRP from 32 to 56.7 MGD, and construction of the NCPWF. Annual average advanced treated recycled water discharges to Miramar Reservoir are projected to

1 A SWSAP WRA is defined in section 60301.853 of title 22 of the CCR as an agency that is subject to a Regional
Board's water-recycli ng requirements applicable to a Surface Wate r Source Augmentation Project (SWSAP),
and is, in whole or part, responsible for applying to the Regional Water Board for a permit, obtaining a permit,
the operation of a SWSAP, and complying with the terms and conditions of the Regi onal Water Board permit
and the requirements of Chapter 3 of title 22 of the CCR.

2 A SWSAP PWS is defined in section 6 0301.853 of title 22 of the CCR is defi ned as a public water system that
plans to utilize or is utilizing an augmented reservoir as a source of drinking water and is responsible for
complying with the requirements of Chapter 17 and the applicable requirements of Chapter 3 of title 22 of the
CCR.
CITY OF SAN DIEGO ORDER NO. R9-2020-0001 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2020-0183
NORTH CITY WATER RECLAMATION PLANT AND PURE WATER FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0109398


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 be 30 MGD, and peak discharges to Miramar Reservoir are projected to be 32.8 MGD. The
North City Pure Water Project is considered a Surface Water Source Augmentation Project
(SWSAP)3 because it involves the planned placement of recycled municipal wastewater into a
surface water reservoir that is used as a source of domestic drinking water supply, for the
purpose of supplementing the source of domestic drinking water supply to Miramar Reservoir.
North City Water Reclamation Plant (NCWRP)
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the NCWRP consist of bar screens,
grit removal, chemically enhanced primary sedimentation, flow equalization, aeration/secondary clarification using a 4-stage Bardenpho process for enhanced nutrient removal, coagulation followed by deep-bed anthracite filtration, and chlorination for flows directed to non-potable use (primarily irrigation).
The NCWRP produces tertiary recycled water that complies with the requirements of title 22,
division 4, chapter 3 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR, Title 22 Regulations). The
existing NCWRP has a design capacity of 32 MGD, and the upgraded NCWRP will have a design capacity of 56.7 MGD.
Up to 42.5 MGD of undisinfected tertiary recycled water will be conveyed from the NCWRP to
the NCPWF. The remaining tertiary recycled water will be used for non-potable purposes
(primarily landscape irrigation) in accordance with Order No. R9-2015-0091, Master Recycling
Permit for the City of San Diego North City Water Reclamation Plant, San Diego County and
any update.
Biosolids and waste sludge generated from the NCWRP is sent to the City’s Metro Biosolids
Center for treatment prior to disposal. The Metro Biosolids Center is regulated separately under Order No. R9-2017-0007, NPDES No. CA 0107409, Waste Discharge Requirements
and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit for the City of San Diego E.W.
Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean Through the Point Loma Ocean Outfall .
North City Pure Water Facility (NCPWF) Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the NCPWF will consist of ozone
disinfection, biological activated carbon, membrane filtration using Toray ultrafiltration
membranes, 3-stage reverse osmosis (RO) treatment, ultraviolet light/advanced oxidation (UV/AOP) using sodium hypochlorite as an oxidant, product-water conditioning using lime and carbon dioxide injection, and chlorination to maintain a free chlorine residual in the Miramar Reservoir conveyance pipeline. Advanced treated recycled water from the NCPWF will be conveyed via the North City Pure Water Pipeline to the North City Pure Water Dechlorination
Facility (shown in Attachment B, Figure B-4) for dechlorination prior to discharge into Miramar
Reservoir.
Approximately 5.91 MGD of RO brine from the NCPWF will be discharged to a brine line
which will convey the brine to the City’s sanitary sewer system. Once in the sanitary sewer system, RO brine will be transported to the E. W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment
Plant (Point Loma WWTP) for treatment and discharge to the Pacific Ocean through the Point
Loma Ocean Outfall. The Point Loma WWTP is regulated separately under Order No. R9-2017-0007, NPDES No. CA 0107409, Waste Discharge Requirements and National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System Permit for t he City of San Diego E.W. Blom Point Loma

3 A SWSAP is defined in secti on 60301.851 of title 22 of t he CCR as a project involvi ng the planned placement of
recycled municipal wastewater into a surface water rese rvoir that is used as a source of domestic drinking
water supply, for the purpose of supplementing t he source of domestic drinking water supply.
CITY OF SAN DIEGO ORDER NO. R9-2020-0001 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2020-0183
NORTH CITY WATER RECLAMATION PLANT AND PURE WATER FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0109398


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean Through the Point Loma Ocean
Outfall and any reissuance.
Additionally, approximately 2.07 MGD of backwash waste from the various NCPWF
processes, and other water not meeting the requirements of the Order will be returned to NCWRP for additional treatment.
North City Pure Water Pipeline
Advanced treated recycled water will be conveyed from the NCPWF site to Miramar Reservoir
by a 48-inch diameter, 8-mile long pipeline. The pipeline will be designed to handle the projected peak 32.8 MGD flow rate. At the maximum flow rate, travel time between the NCPWF and Miramar Reservoir will be approximately two hours. As discussed in section VI.C.6 of the Order and section VI.B.6 of the Fact Sheet, discharges from the North City Pure Water Pipeline to the City’s municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) during
maintenance and cleaning of the North City Pure Water Pipeline will be regulated under Order
WQ 2014-0194-DWQ, Statewide NPDES Permit for Drinking Water System Discharges to the
Waters of the United States and any reissuance.
North City Pure Water Dechlorination Facility The conveyance pipeline will deliver advanced treated recycled water to the North City Pure
Water Dechlorination Facility located immediately south of the Miramar Reservoir dam, at the
north end of Meanley Drive near the entrance of the Miramar DWTP. The North City Pure Water Dechlorination Facility will achieve dechlorination by injecting sodium bisulfite into the conveyance pipeline. The rate of sodium bisulfite injection will be controlled to reduce chlorine residual to non-detectable concentrations.
Miramar Drinking Water Treatment Plant (Miramar DWTP)
Operations at the Facility will be ramped up in stages to ensure that the treatment processes
and reliability features operate as designed and comply with applicable requirements established by the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking Water (DDW).
Miramar Reservoir is a drinking water storage reservoir with a capacity of 6,682 acre-feet.
The water in the reservoir is withdrawn, blended with imported water, and treated at the
Miramar Drinking Water Treatment Plant (Miramar DWTP) prior to customer distribution. Once the NCPWF is operating at full capacity, advanced treated recycled water will comprise 100 percent of the Miramar Reservoir supply and will replace imported water as the primary source of supply water to the Reservoir. The Miramar DWTP has a treatment capacity of 144 MGD, and serves approximately 0.5 million customers within the northern section of the City
of San Diego and the City of Del Mar. The Miramar DWTP is regulated separately under a
water supply permit issued by the DDW.
Water Purification Demonstration Facility (WPDF) The Discharger constructed a 1 MGD Water Purification Demonstration Facility (WPDF) at
the Facility site to test treatment processes utilized at the full scale NCPWF. Treatment
processes utilized at the WPDF include ozone disinfection, biological activated carbon,
microfiltration, RO, ultraviolet disinfection/advanced oxidation processes. Analyses results from effluent samples collected from the WPDF from 2011 to 2012 and 2016 to 2017 were included in the Discharger’s ROWD.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (Water Code) (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to
section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13370). It shal l serve as an NPDES permit authorizing the
Discharger to discharge into waters of the United States at the discharge location described in Table 2 subject to the WDRs in this Order.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Pursuant to Section 13389 of the Water Code, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is
exempt from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of division 13 of the Public Resources Code. However, compliance with CEQA is required for those provisions in this Order that are based on State law only. Under the San Diego Water
Board’s state law authority, this Order incorporates applicable portions of State Water
Resources Control Board Water Quality Control Policy for Recycled Water and Article 5.3, Division 4, Title 22, of the California Code of Regulations. The state law only provisions of this Order are a discretionary approval subject to compliance with CEQA.
The City, as the lead agency, and the United States Bureau of Reclamation certified a Final
Environmental Report/Environmental Impact Statement (Final EIR/EIS)
4 for the North City
Pure Water Project, the first phase of the Pure Water San Diego Program (Pure Water
Program). On April 10, 2018, a Notice of Determination was adopted by the City to certify the Final North City Project, Pure Water San Diego Program EIR/EIS (State Clearinghouse No. 2016081016) in compliance with the provisions of CEQA. The Final EIR/EIS concluded that there were no significant impacts to hydrology and water quality.
The San Diego Water Board, as a responsible agency, is responsible for mitigating and
avoiding only the direct or indirect environmental effects for the parts of the project which it decides to carry out or approve. The San Diego Water Board independently reviewed and concluded that the 2018 Final EIR/EIS adequately disclosed and evaluated the impacts to hydrology and water quality.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan. The San Diego Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the San Diego Basin (Basin Plan) on September 8, 1994 that designates

4 A copy of the Final EIR/EIS, dat ed February 27, 2018 is available at:
https://www.sandiego.gov/public-utilitie s/sustainability/pure-water-sd/reports

CITY OF SAN DIEGO ORDER NO. R9-2020-0001 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2020-0183
NORTH CITY WATER RECLAMATION PLANT AND PURE WATER FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0109398


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8 beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives (WQOs), and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters
addressed through the Basin Plan. Subsequent revisions to the Basin Plan have also been adopted by the San Diego Water Board and approved by the State Water Board. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan. Beneficial uses applicable to Miramar Reservoir are as follows:
Table F-2. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point