FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Permittee owns the ECLWRF located at 1935 South Hughes Way, El
Segundo , California. The Facility treats secondary effluent provided by the City of
Los Angeles’ H yperion WRP to various water qualities depending on the end use
of the recycled water . The end uses of the recycled water include : irrigation; high
and low pressure boiler feed water for the Chevron El Segundo Refinery boilers;
cooling tower makeup water for the refineries, and groundwater injection to the
West Coast Basin Barrier Project. The brine waste discharge permitted by this
Order is generated by the reverse osmosis treatment systems needed to
produce the boiler feedwater and the recycled water for groundwater
replenishmen t. The pipeli nes between Hyperion WRP and ECLWRF that convey
secondary -treated effluent and untreated brine waste are owned and maintained
by the Permittee.
The ECLWRF currently has a total wastewater treatment design capacity of 62.5
MGD and produces recycled water using three treatment processes; 1) a
disinfected tertiary treatment system, 2) an advanced treatment train consisting
of ozone, microfiltration, and reverse osmosis for industrial boiler feed water , and
3) an advanced treatment train consisting of ozone, microfiltration, reverse
osmosis, and advanced oxidation for injection into the West Coast Groundwater
Basin as a seawater intrusion barrier. The schematic for the advanced treatment
train is provided in Attachment C -1. The brine waste stream is a byproduct of the
reverse osmosis treatment, as shown in Attachment C -1. Between 2017 and
2022 , a daily maximum of 3.85 MGD of brine waste was generated from the
reverse osmosis trains of the advanced treatment facility and discharged to the
Pacific Ocean . The advanced treatment facilities currently produce up to 17.5
MGD of recycled water for indirect potable reuse for the West Coast Basin
Barrier Project and another 4. 8 MGD of reverse osmosis permeate for refinery
WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2023-0368
EDWARD C. LITTLE WATER RECYCLING FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0063401
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 11/16/2023 F-7boiler feed water makeup. As shown in Attachment C -1, the advanced oxidation
process is only needed for groundwater injection and includes ultraviolet light
with hydrogen peroxide, decarbonation, and lime stabilization.
Solids generated from the above -mentioned processes are dewatered onsite
using two plate -and-frame presses. They are then hauled off -site to be
beneficially reused for land applications such as composting, construction, and
soil blending .
Water Reclamation . The ECLWRF has separate Waste Discharge
Requirements and Water Recycling Requirements that govern the use of tertiary
and advanced treated recycled water. Order No. 01-043 (amended by Order No.
R4-2002 -0173) serves as water recycling requirements for the production and
use of disinfected tertiary recycled water for irrigation , industrial or commercial
cooling towers, boiler feed water , street cleaning, and sewer flushing. Another
order, Order No. R4 -2006 -0069, amending Order No. R4 -2006 -0009, serves as
Waste Discharge and Water Recycling Requirements for the production and use
of advanced treated water for groundwater recharge and as a seawater intrusion
barrier (West Coast Basin Barrier Project).
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
There are currently no plans for changes or upgrades to treatment systems that
affect the brine discharge.
3.