service area . In 2021, the JWPCP received 17.3% of the influent flow as industrial
wastewater, the rest (82.7%) was from commercial/residential sources.
2.1.2. The treatment system at JWPCP consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation, pure oxyg en activated sludge reactors, secondary clarification, and
chlorination (Attachment C). Effluent from the primary sedimentation tanks is
biologically treated in pure oxygen activated sludge reactors. The secondary treated
effluent is then clarified, chlori nated and pumped into the outfall manifold. The
secondary treated effluent from JWPCP is routinely discharged through Discharge
Points 001 and 002 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States, at White
Point within the Palos Verdes Peninsula Sub -Wate rshed that is part of the Santa
Monica Bay Watershed.
Solid fractions recovered from wastewater treatment processes include grit, primary
screenings, primary biosolids and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge,
digested sludge screenings and digester cleaning solids. The fine solids (grit,
primary screenings, digested sludge screenings, digester cleaning solids) which are
primarily inorganic materials are hauled away to a landfill. The remaining solid
fractions (primary sludge and skimmings, thickened waste activated sludge) are
anaerobically digested on -site. The digested solids are screened and dewatered
using scroll centrifuges. JWPCP generates approximately 98,000 dry metric tons of
Class B biosolids per year. The biosolids are hauled off -site for use in composting
and land application, combined with municipal solid waste for co -disposal, or
processed into a renewable fuel for cement kilns.
Methane gas generated in the anaerobic digestion process is used to produce power
and digester heating steam i n a total energy facility that utilizes gas turbines and
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023 -0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053813
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted : 5/25/2023 F-6waste -heat recovery steam generators. The on -site generation of electricity permits
the JWPCP to produce its own electricity.
Each treatment process is described in more detail below:
a. Primary Treatment: Primary treatment begins with two inlet works that receive
flow from three influent sewers. Inlet Works No. 1 receives approximately 70% of
the total JWPCP flow and Inlet Works No. 2 receives the remaining 30%. Six bar
screens for Inle t Works No. 1 and three bar screens for Inlet Works No. 2 remove
solids by capturing large debris through bars spaced approximately 1 inch apart.
Captured debris is continuously removed from each bar screen, by five equally
spaced rakes, and deposited int o a trough. The trough delivers the debris to one
of two dewatering compactors. Water removed in the compactors is returned to
the treatment process upstream of the bar screens while the dewatered debris is
disposed of in a landfill. Wastewater effluent from the bar screens is directed to
one of six grit chambers, which remove heavy inorganic material. Grit slurry is
pumped from the chambers and dewatered with the use of cyclones and
clarifiers. The water is returned to the inlet of the grit chambers an d the
dewatered grit is disposed of in a landfill. Wastewater from the grit chambers is
then directed to the sedimentation tanks for settleable and floatable solids
removal. The JWPCP has 52 primary sedimentation tanks arranged into three
sedimentation t ank batteries. The wastewater enters each tank through three
inlet gates with diffusers. Flow is reduced from roughly 3 feet per second to 3
feet per minute to allow suspended solids to settle. Biosolids are directed
through draw off lines and pumped to raw sludge transfer stations before transfer
to anaerobic digesters. Floatable solids are pushed to the effluent end of the
tank where they are pulled up into a skimmings trough, then conveyed to one of
four skimmings wet wells. Ultimately the skimmings are directed to one of 24
circular anaerobic digesters, each with a volume of approximately 500,000 cubic
feet, for final processing. Anaerobic digestion of the biosolids reduces the
concentration of pathogens, offensive odors, and the overall amount of solids to
be dewatered. It also produces methane as a by -product, which is used to power
the JWPCP.
b. Secondary Treatment: A secondary influent pumping station pumps primary
effluent to the secondary treatment facilities. Eight biological reactors, eac h with
a design capacity of 50 MGD, convert finely divided and dissolved organic matter
that passes through primary treatment into settleable solids that are removed by
final clarification. Each reactor is subdivided into four stages, each stage with
three aerators/mixers to facilitate oxygen dissolution and mixing. The first stage
of the reactors is operated as an anaerobic selector, with limited exposure to
oxygen to suppress the growth of certain organisms in the activated sludge. In
the following thr ee stages, the activated sludge consumes organic matter in the
mixed liquor and produces more organisms. The fourth stage of some of the
reactors also functions as a pH adjustment stage. The reactors are covered to
retain the high purity oxygen gas intro duced into the system and permit a high
degree of oxygen utilization by the activated sludge.
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023 -0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053813
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted : 5/25/2023 F-7After passing through the biological reactors, wastewater flows into the final
clarifiers to separate the activated sludge solids from the biological reactor’s
mixed liquor. Each reactor has a bank of 26 sedimentation tanks where floatable
material is skimmed off the top, collected, and directed to a sewer line. Solids
that settle to the bottom are scraped to two hoppers where the sludge is collected
and drawn of f to return sludge pumping stations. There is one pumping station
per reactor, each consisting of three pumps, that pumps activated sludge to the
inlet of the reactors to keep an effective concentration of microorganisms in the
reactors. However, a porti on of the activated sludge is wasted from the
reactor/clarifier system to maintain the desired population of microorganisms in
the reactors.
A dissolved air flotation thickening system is used to concentrate the waste
activated biosolids produced in second ary treatment. Solids on the surface of
the flotation tank are collected using skimmers and then pumped to the
anaerobic digestion system, located with the primary treatment facilities. The
clarified effluent is returned to the secondary influent force m ain. Secondary
effluent is disinfected using a bleach solution to achieve a chlorine residual of
approximately 1 -2 mg/L and then is either pumped or gravity fed, depending on
tidal conditions, to the Pacific Ocean .
c. Solids Processing: Discharge from th e 24 circular digesters is diverted into three
pump station wet wells, one of which is the central wet well for transfer of
digested biosolids to solids processing. The central wet well consists of three
individual structures, each with a capacity of 822,8 00 gallons and equipped with
two gas blowers that pump digester gas into the wet well to provide mixing.
Biosolids are pumped using three digested sludge pumps through rotary screens
and into centrifuge feed pumping station wet wells, housing a total of fi ve pumps.
The pumps are used to deliver digested sludge to the centrifuges, which are
used to separate water from the suspended solids. There are currently 31 low -
speed and 8 high -speed centrifuges. The high- speed centrifuges are capable of
increasing gra vity up to a factor of 3,000, while the low -speed centrifuges
increase gravity by a factor of approximately 1,000. Diluted cationic polymer is
used in the process to enhance flocculation. The dewatered cake (biosolids)
drops through a hopper below each el evated centrifuge onto a conveyor belt,
while the waste concentrate is collected through a second hopper into a central
drainage system. Eighteen storage silos, each of which can hold up to 510 tons,
store the biosolids prior to conveyance to truck loading stations. Centrate from
the centrifuges is collected and gravity flows to the Centrate Treatment System
Facility, where solids are concentrated using dissolved air flotation. The clarified
effluent from the Centrate Treatment Facility discharges to a wet well, where it
flows by gravity to mix with the secondary effluent after the secondary influent
pump station prior to entering the biological reactors .
d. Food Waste Slurry System : On July 16, 2021 , the Discharger submitted a letter
to the Los Angeles Water B oard indicating that operation of the Food Waste
Receiving and C o-Digestion System at JWPCP has commenced and standard
operating procedures are in place . Separated food waste is unloaded at the
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023 -0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053813
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted : 5/25/2023 F-8Puente Hills Materials Recovery Facili ty located in the City of Industry , California .
The food waste is prescreened to remove large inert contaminants. The food
waste is then loaded into a food waste slurry processor through a feeder/hopper.
During processing, inorganic inert contaminants are separated from the food
waste slurry. The inert contaminants are stored in bins and disposed as refuse.
The main inert contaminants are plastic bags, containers, glass and metals. The
food waste slurry is stored in tanks at the Material Recovery Facility . The solid
food waste slurry is then transport ed to the JWPCP digestors where it is
anaerobically digested, and liquid food waste slurry is added to the headworks .
e. Power Generation: The JWPCP is self -reliant with respect to power generation.
All the power and most of the heating steam requirements f or the JWPCP are
provided by three digester gas fired turbines, each equipped with a 9.9 MW
electric generator, and one steam turbine. Utility power is available whenever the
on-site power facility is out of service.
Digester gas must be dewatered and scru bbed of particulate matter prior to
combustion. Digester gas is first scrubbed, using two Venturi scrubbers and non -
potable water, and particulate matter is regularly blown down from the scrubber
storage tanks. Two mist eliminators downstream of the Ventu ri scrubbers remove
water droplets from the gas stream, and the digester gas is then further treated
using two chillers that condense water vapor. From there, digester gas is directed
to a surge tank prior to compression. Natural gas is used to boost the heat input
during periods of low digester gas production. Three compressors are used to
compress the digester gas, or a mixture of digester gas and natural gas, from
approximately 10 inches of water column to approximately 350 pounds per
square inch (psig) . Prior to combustion in the gas turbine, the high -pressure
digester gas is chilled to 40 degrees Fahrenheit, using a refrigeration system, to
remove any remaining water vapor. Typically, only two gas turbines are in
operation while one acts as a standby. During periods when the gas turbines are
not operational, digester gas can be burned at two different flare stations, with
the South Flare Station consisting of five waste gas flares and the North Flare
Station consisting of seven waste gas flares. Waste h eat from the gas turbine
exhaust is used to produce steam, using heat recovery steam generators, and
directed to a steam turbine for power production and digester heating steam . The
gas turbines are operated without waste heat recovery. Digester heating st eam is
provided by means of four digester gas -fired boilers, along with an additional
natural gas -fired boiler for emergencies. These boilers both supplement and
serve as a backup to the waste heat steam generation .
2.1.3. Recycled Water : Approximately 20 MGD of JWPCP effluent is recycled for
internal uses within the treatment processes and for maintenance . However, due to
the plant's influent sources, salt levels are too high for reuse in irrigation for most
industrial processes. More impo rtantly, JWPCP serves a critical role in facilitating
regional water reclamation by handling waste streams (e.g., solids and concentrates
from reverse osmosis systems) from local and the upstream water recycling facilities
(Whittier Narrows, San Jose Creek , Pomona, Los Coyotes and Long Beach). The
recycled water from the upstream water reclamation plants is individually permitted.
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023 -0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053813
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted : 5/25/2023 F-9The Metropolitan Water District (MWD) and the Discharger have been developing
Pure Water Southern California since 2010. Pure Wa ter Southern California
provides an opportunity to develop a local and sustainable water supply for Los
Angeles and Or ange Counties , with the objective of providing water to replenish the
Central, West Coast, Main San Gabriel, and Orange County Groundwater Basin s.
MWD and the Discharger plan to construct a new Advanced Water Treatment
Facility ( AWTF ) including membrane bioreactor s, reverse osmosis, and
ultraviolet/advanced oxidation processes at the JWPCP to ultimately produce 150
MGD or 168 ,000 acre-feet per year (AFY) of purified water for beneficial reuse
including replenishing groundwater basis, industrial uses, and eventually direct
potable reuse .
The first step toward s developing this project was pilot testing conducted between
2010 and 2012 , which demonstrated that it is technically feasible for the secondary
effluent from JWPCP to be advanced treated to meet the water quality required for
groundwater recharge. In September 2019, the Sanitation Districts and the MWD
completed construction of a 0.5 MGD advanced treatment demonstration plant to
demonstrate the effectiveness of various treatment strategies . A Notice of
Preparation for the full-scale system was distributed in September 2022 and the final
Environmental Impact Report is expected to be complete in ea rly 20 24. Once
approved, design and construction will follow with an estimated completion date of
2032 to produce up to 100 MGD purified water and 2036 to produce up to 150 MGD
purified water.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receivin g Waters
2.2.1. After chlorination, the secondary treated effluent travels about 6 miles through
tunnels to the outfall manifold and then is discharged to the Pacific Ocean, at White
Point off the Palos Verdes Peninsula. (Refer to the Flow Schematic, Attac hment C).
2.2.2. The JWPCP has four outfalls (terminating at Discharge Points 001 through 004)
located at White Point, off the Palos Verdes Peninsula. All effluent from the
JWPCP travels through two tunnels under the Palos Verdes Peninsula to the
shoreline of the Pacific Ocean, where an underground manifold system of valves
connects the tunnels to four ocean outfalls. The manifold and the starting point for
the four outfalls are located near White Point, on the Palos Verdes Peninsula. The
120-inch outfall (terminating at Discharge Point 001) lies to the south of the
manifold and continuously discharges approximately 65% of the treated
wastewater. The 90 -inch outfall (terminating at Discharge Point 002) lies south -
west of the manifold and continuo usly discharges approximately 35% of the treated
wastewater. The 72 -inch outfall (terminating at Discharge Point 003) is located
between the 120 -inch and 90 -inch outfalls and is used during times of heavy rains
to provide hydraulic relief for flow in the outfall system. The 60 -inch outfall
(terminating at Discharge Point 004) is also located between the 90 -inch and 120 -
inch outfalls and serves as a standby outfal l to provide additional hydraulic relief
during the very heaviest flows. All four of these outfalls terminate in diffuser
sections that contain multiple ports with opposing discharge direction from a
minimum depth of 100 feet for the 60 -inch diffuser to t he maximum diffuser depth of
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2023 -0181
JOINT WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0053813
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted : 5/25/2023 F-10210 feet at the end of the 90 -inch outfall. The diffusers lie at the outer edge of a
narrow shelf offshore of the Palos Verdes peninsula.
These four outfalls are described as follows:
Table F -2 Outfall Descriptions
Discharge
PointDescription
001 White Point 120 -inch ocean outfall (33.6892 º, -118.3167 º)
Approximately 65% of the effluent from JWPCP is discharged from this outfall .
It discharges south of the shoreline off White Point, San Pedro. The outfall is
7440 ft. long to the beginning of a single L -shaped diffuser leg which is 4440
ft. long. Depth at the beginning of the diffuser is 167 ft. and at the end of the
diffuser is 190 ft.
002 White Point 90 -inch ocean outfall (33.7008 º, -118.3381 º)
Approximately 35% of the effluent from JWPCP is discharged from this outfall .
It discharges southwest of the shoreline off White Point, San Pedro. The
outfall is 7982 ft. long to the beginning of a y -shaped diffuser with two legs.
Each leg is 1208 ft. long. Depth at the beginn ing of the diffusers is 196 ft. and
at the end of the diffusers is 210 ft.
003 White Point 72 -inch ocean outfall (33.7008 º, -118.3300 º)
This outfall is used only during times of heavy flow to provide hydraulic relief in
the outfall system. When used, it discharges off the White Point shoreline
between Discharge Points 001 and 002 and about 160 ft. below the ocean
surface. The outfall is about 6500 ft. long and connects to a diffuser with two
legs, each approximately 200 ft. long.
004 White Point 60 -inch ocean outfall (33.7061 º, -118.3283 º)
This outfall is used as a standby to provide additional hydraulic relief during
the heaviest flow. When used, it discharges off the White Point shoreline
between Discharge Serial Nos. 002 and 003 and about 110 ft. below the
ocean surface. The outfall is ab out 5000 ft. long and connects to a single, very
short diffuser.
2.2.3. In addition to the JWPCP effluent, the waste brine generated by the West Basin
Municipal Water Districts’ Carson Regional Water Recycling Plant is also discharg ed
to the ocean through the JWPCP’s outfalls via a waste brine line connected to the
JWPCP effluent tunnel. The Royal Palms Restroom at the Royal Palms State
Beach also discharges treated effluent to the JWPCP outfall at manhole J204. The
discharge of waste brine from West Basin and treated effluent from the Royal Palms
Restroom are regulated under separate waste discharge requireme nts and NPDES
permit s.
2.3. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self -Monitoring Report (SMR) Data

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Environmental planning for the full -scale system of the AWTF started in 2021 and is
expected to end in 2024. Once approved, design and construction will follow with an
estimated completion date of 2032 to produce up to 100 MGD purified water and 2036
to produce up to 150 MGD purified water .
In ad dition, JWPCP uses an 8-foot diameter tunnel constructed in 1937 and a 12 -foot
tunnel constructed in 1958 to convey the secondary -treated effluent to the ocean. A
multi -year planning and environmental review effort began in 2006 and identified the
need for a new 18-foot diameter tunnel to ensure the reliability and provide sufficient
future capacity. A new 18-foot tunnel is being constructed under the Clearwater P roject
and it address es the following concerns with the existing tunnels:
2.6.1. Aging infrastructure concerns – The existing tunnels cannot be taken out of
service because they must continuously carry flow.
2.6.2. Earthquake concerns – The existing tunnels are not built to current earthquake
standards, even though they cross two earthquake faults.
2.6.3. Overflow concerns – The capacity of the existing tunnels was almost exceeded
twice during major rainstorms, including the rainstorm in Janu ary 2017. If the
combined tunnel capacity is exceeded, partially treated or untreated wastewater
would be discharged to surrounding waterways, resulting in degradation of water
quality.
Attachment B.2. shows the alignment of the new and existing tunnels. The Clearwater
Project construction started at the JWPCP in 2019 and will be compete d in 2027 at
White Point near Royal Palms Beach. This new 18-foot diameter tunnel will connect to
the current manifold located at White Point , but the permitted discharge v olume and
dilution credits at Discharge Points 001 through 004 will remain the same.
3.