2.1.2. Following is a description of the treatment processes:
a. Preliminary Treatment and Influent Pump Station: Preliminary
treatment at the headworks consists of an inlet junction structure, bar
screens, screenings conveyance, grit removal, and grit conveyance. The
influent junction box collects flow from the Hemlock, Eastern, and Central
Trunk Sewers as well as r eturn flows from the OWRRF and AWPF . From
there, flow is routed to two of six influent screen channels. Four of the screen
channels have mechanical bar screens while the remaining two are
equipped with man ual bar screens. From there, flow is routed to one of two
grit chambers to remove grit and other heavy material that is hauled to an
offsite landfill for disposal. Finally, flow is gravity fed to the influent pump
station wet well. The influent pump statio n includes six dry pit submersible
pumps. During normal operations one or two of the six pumps are on duty.
b. Primary Treatment: Raw wastewater from the headworks flows to four
primary sedimentation basins for primary treatment. Each sedimentation
basin is 105 feet in diameter and equipped with a sludge collector, sludge
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024 -0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 05/23/2024 F-6pump, and surface scum removal mechanism. The primary treatment
process includes facilities for adding ferric chloride and polymer to enhance
sedimentation. Ferric chloride destabilizes the suspended particles in the
primary influent wastewater to promote flocculation. The addition of polymer
after floc formation produces a much larger floc, enhancing the settling of
suspended solids in the primary clarifiers.
c. Secondary Treatment: The secondary treatment system removes organic
material from primary effluent and is comprised of trickling filters ( biotowers ),
activated sludge tanks (ASTs), and secondary sedimentation basins (SSTs).
The primary effluent flows to an interstage pump station (IPS) where it is
pumped by three pumps to the two existing biotowers. The larger biotower is
140 feet in diameter while the smaller biotower is 100 feet in diameter. Flow
from the biotowers re -enters the IPS and is then pumped by three interstage
feed pumps to the ASTs. The OWRRF has two ASTs that can be operated in
a step -feed configuration. Additionally, each AST has three channels that
can be run in series or in parallel. Each pass has fixed fine bubble diffusers
fed by five single -stage centrifugal blowers. Five centrifugal blowers supply
air to the aeration basins to provide oxygen for the activated sludge
microorganisms and mixing of the mixed liquor. Air drawn into the blowers is
compressed, and then discharged through ded icated headers to the fine
bubble diffusers. Each of the three channels in the ASTs is 450 ft long with a
surface water depth of 17 feet.
Flow exiting the ASTs is collected in an effluent channel that flows to the
SST inlet channel where the flow is directed to eighteen rectangular SSTs.
Each SST has plastic flight and chain sludge collectors that send sludge to a
centralized return activated sludge (RAS) pump station consisting of a wet
well and four mixed flow pumps. Secondary effluent leaving the SSTs flows
in the secondary effluent channel that runs along all eighteen SSTs. This
secondary effluent then flows by gravity to the Chlorine Con tact Tank (CCT)
and/or to the Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) lift pump station
wet well. Flow exiting the SSTs can be diverted to the final effluent
equalization basin (FEB ). The FEB has a total capacity of 5 million gallons.
Secondary effluent stored in the FEB is pumped by three vertical mixed flow
pumps out of the FEB to the CCT .
d. Effluent Disinfection: Secondary effluent leaving the SSTs and/or FEB
flows by gravity through a 48 -inch secondary effluent line that discharges to
the CCT inlet. The CCT has two three -pass tanks . Each pass is 145 feet
long. Sodium hypochlorite is applied at the SST effluent channel for
disinfection. Dechlorination using sodium bisulfite is performed at the end of
the CCT. Chlorine contact tanks slow the flow and allow time for disinfection
to occur before the chlorine residual is removed by adding sodiu m bisulfite
solution. The reaction between the chlorine residual and sodium bisulfite is
essentially immediate. Secondary uses for sodium hypochlorite in the plant
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024 -0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 05/23/2024 F-7include odor control at the influent manholes and at the secondary effluent
feed tie -in to the AWPF.
e. Effluent Pump Station and Outfall: The effluent pump station and outfall
dispose treated wastewater to the ocean. The system includes a primary
motor driven pump (" Big Red") and three back -up pumps for emergencies
and high flows. The backup pumps include two electric motor pumps and
one engine driven pump. Final effluent is discharged into the Pacific Ocean
offshore of Ormond Beach through a 6,800 -foot, multi -port diffuser outfall.
The outfall was constructed around 1963 and modified in 1978. It has a
capacity of 50 MGD.
f. Oil and Grease Program: Although the City is no longer providing oil &
grease collection services, the City (Source Control) staff still conduct oil &
grease inspection for all grease interceptors within the City collection area.
Businesses are contracting with private haulers f or oil & grease removal.
g. Solids Handling: The solids handling facilities at the OW RRF consist of
two gravity thickeners for primary sludge thickening, two dissolved air
flotation thickeners (DAFTs) for waste activated sludge (WAS) thickening,
three anaerobic digesters, and four belt filter presses (BFPs) for dewatering.
Primary sludge and scum is pumped from the primary clarifiers to the gravity
thickeners. The primary sludge feed is combined at the thickener feed
junction box and discharged to the thickener influent well. Polymer is added
to this sludge stream. The purpose of the gravity thickeners is to reduce the
liquid content in the primary sludge sent to the digesters. WAS from the
secondary clarifiers is pumped from the RAS/WAS pump stations to the
DAFTs where polymer is used to improve the separation of the solids from
the liquid in the WAS flow. The DAFTs separate the solids from the liquid in
the WAS flow by using fine air bubbles to float the sludge particles to the
surface, where it is then scraped off. Volume reduction from WAS thickening
benefits the sludge digestion and dewate ring processes by reducing the
volume of sludge to be processed, quantity of chemicals required for sludge
conditioning, and amount of heat required for digestion. The thickened WAS
solids and the thickened primary sludge are combined prior to entering the
digesters . The combined thickened solids are preheated and pumped to the
anaerobic digesters. Digester gas produced through the digestion process is
used to run the three cogeneration engines. Digested solids are pumped to
the solids dewatering facility w here they are dewatered through four belt filter
presses (BFP’s). Polymer is added to the digested sludge upstream of the
BFPs to enhance dewatering. Dewatered sludge cake is conveyed to trucks
for transport to an offsite landfill . The main purpose of anaerobic digestion is
to biologically decompose organic material in primary and secondary scum
and sludge to a stable form in compliance with regulatory requirements for
final disposal. Anaerobic digestion also reduces the amount of so lids to
dewater, reduces the volume of sludge cake that is hauled to the landfill,
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024 -0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 05/23/2024 F-8reduces pathogens in the sludge and produces digester gas that is high in
methane and useful for fueling other equipment. The BFP system is
designed to concentrate the anaerobically digested sludge from a solids
content of less than 3 percent to a range of 18 to 20 percent.
2.1.3. Water Reclamation . Up to 8 MGD of the secondary -treated effluent from
the OWRRF flows to the AWPF for advanced treatment that includes
microfiltration (MF), reverse osmosis (RO), and ultraviolet/advanced
oxidation process (UV/AOP) to produce up to 6.25 MGD recycled water . The
treatment and use of recycled water from the AWPF is regulated under
Order R4 -2020 -0051 (File No. 08 -070). As previously mentioned, the AWPF
permeate is permitted to be used for nonpotable uses and indirect potable
reuse (Aquife r Storage and Recovery (ASR) ), but ASR is not yet in
operation . The MF backwash wastewater is returned to the OWRRF ’s
headworks, and up to 1.75 MGD RO brine is commingled with the OWRRF’s
secondary -treated effluent and discharged to the Pacific Ocean.
2.1.4. Pretreatment: The OWRRF has an industrial wastewater Pretreatment
Program which is approved by USEPA and the Los Angeles Water Board.
The City’s staff manages a pretreatment program that consists of 1,303
nondomestic dischargers. Forty -five of those dischargers are classified and
permitted as Significant Industrial Users (SIU), and 12 of the SIUs are
Categorical Industrial Users (CIU). The City also regulates and regularly
inspects nonsignificant nondomestic dischargers, including 2 groundw ater
remediation sites, 4 84 dischargi ng auto shops, and 769 food service
establishments. The City issues temporary permits to groundwater
remediation sites and inspects and samples them annually. The auto shops
and restaurants are permitted, inspected, and sampled yearly . The City
does not accept hauled waste at the publicly owned treatment works.
The Naval Base Ventura County Point Mugu, the Nava l Base Ventura
County Port Hueneme, Channel Island Beach Community Services District,
unincorporated areas of Ventura County El Rio and Nyeland Acres and the
City of Oxnard (desalter brine) all discharge to the City’s wastewater
treatment plant, and, with the nondomestic dischargers in this jurisdiction,
are managed through the City’s pretreatment program.
The City’s Local Limits Evaluation Report dated June 2020 proposed new
local limits that were approved by the City on October 7, 2021. The Los
Angeles Water Board approved the pretreatment modifications on July 19,
2021. The City also introduced non-substantial modifications to the mass -
based local limits for TDS and boron in 2022.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has started work on the following improvement and rehabilitation
projects. None of the projects will increase hydraulic or treatment capacity. All
work , except for the secondary settling tanks, is expected to be complete by the
end of 2025.
Headworks: This project rehabilitates the existing headworks concrete structure
to improve flow metering and odor control. Improvements include replacement of
influent flow meters, rehabilitation of deteriorated concrete, replacement of grit
chamber covers, and the addition of a new odor scrubber to supplement the
existing odor scrubber.
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY
FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 05/23/2024 F-13Primary Clarifiers: This project rehabilitates the existing primary clarifiers to
meet seismic requirements, improve pumping systems, and add odor control.
Improvements include replacement of the internal mechanical systems ( center
column, center cage, gates, rake arms, skimmer blades, scum box, flushing
valve, and drive motor) , installation of new solids and scum pumps, replacement
of underground piping, seismic retrofitting, and installation of a new odor control
system.
Secondary Aeration Basins: This project rehabilitates and upgrades the
secondary aeration basins to meet seismic requirements and improve
operational efficiency. Improvements include repairing deteriorating concrete,
making structural improvements, replacing primary and RAS influent piping,
remov ing interpass gates , replac ing step-feed and effluent gates , install ing
baffles , install ing new flexible membrane aeration system and associated piping ,
install ing new mechanical mixers in the anaerobic zones , install ing new control
valves and flow meters , and install ing a new programmable logic controller and
dissolved oxygen control. After project completion, the aeration basins will
operate in series instead of the current serpentine approach.
Secondary Settling Tanks: This project will rehabilitate 18 secondary settling
tanks over the next five years to improve the existing structural and mechanical
systems. Improvements include repair of deteriorating concrete and the
replacement of all mechanical equipment including chains, sprockets, flights,
drives and scum tubes.
Electrical Equipment : A new primary electrical building is being constructed to
replace the existing building which was built around 1975. The project will
upgrade aging, unreliable, and possibly dangerous electrical equipment. The
entire electrical building , including the electrical components , do not meet the
current codes and are difficult to repair and/or replace. Existing motor control
centers (MCCs) and associated equipment will be replaced at six locations
throughout the plant to improve reliability and safety of the existing electrical
system within the plant. The current MCCs are beyond their useful life and do not
meet current standards.
Emergency Generator: A new 2.0 megawatt generator will be installed to
replace two existing 1.5 megawatt generators that are unreliable, difficult to
repair, and do not meet current air quality standards.
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System: A new and
upgraded SCADA system will replace the existing system to update system
functionality.
Digester: This project will rehabilitate and place into service Digester #2.
Digester #2 has been out of service in excess of 25 years. The addition of this
digester will increase digestion capacity, improve reliability , and add flexibility to
the operation of the process. Improvements include the replacement of the
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY
FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED : 05/23/2024 F-14mixing system, heat exchanger, piping and valving, and the construction of a new
concrete roof.
Security: This project will improve security at the plant by replacing the existing
perimeter fence with a taller fence that surrounds the facility and installing up to
20 cameras for complete perimeter coverage.
Future Projects: The Discharger plans on removing the biotowers at some point
in the future after the Secondary Aeration Basin Project is complete. The
biotowers were constructed around 1955 and are no longer structurally sound. In
addition, the biotowers attract snails and filter flies. The snails accumulate in the
Activated Sludge Tanks (ASTs) and reduce the oxygen transfer efficiency of the
process as well as cost the Discharger a significant amount of time in removing
snail shells from the ASTs. A sched ule for when the biotowers will be removed
has not yet been determined.
3.