wastewater treatment and disposal areas
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 2, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper wne (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall
not be less than 1.0 mgn.
4. The treatment and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
5. Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities
are not created around the perimeter of the watez surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of watez depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
8. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow
and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
nonirrigation season. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance
with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically).
9. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification No. 8.
•
' WASm DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ARBUCKLE PUBLIC UTilJTY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNI'Y -4-
c.
D. 10. Pond levees shall be protected from damage due to burrowing animals.
Slud&e Dkposal:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall
be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter IS and approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3. Use and Disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing Federal and State
laws and regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards
included in 40 CFR 503. If the State Water Resources Control Board and the
Regional Boards are given the authority to implement regulations contained in 40
CFR 503, this Order may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules
and technical standards. The Discharger must comply with the standards and time
schedules contained ~ 40 CFR 503, whether or not they have been incorporated
into this Order.
4. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual issued
by the Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice for
Landscaping of Sewage Sludge.
Groand Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying ground
water to:
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background
water quality.
2. Contain chemicals, heavy metals, or trace elements in concentrations that
adversely affect beneficial uses or exceed maximum contaminant levels specified
in 22 CCR, Division 4, Chapter IS.
3. Exceed a most probable number of total coliform organisms of 2.2/100 ml over
any seven-day period.
4. Exceed concentrations of radionuclides specified in 22 CCR, Division 4, Chapter
15. t
i
II
•
• WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMBNTS
ARBUCKLE PUBUC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER. TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY -5-
S. Contain taste or odor-producing substances in concentrations that cause nuisance
or adversely affect beneficial uses.
6. Contain concentrations of chemical constituents in amounts that adversely affect
agricultural use.
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 93-
208, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the
Executive Officer.
2. The Discharger shall comply with the •standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements•, dated 1 March 1991, which
are attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as ·standard Provision(s). •
3. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facililies described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or
operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be
immediately forwarded to this office.
4. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orden requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in
revision or rescission of this Order.
5. The Discharger shall comply with the following time schedule to assure
compliance with Ground Water Limitations of this Order:
Compliance
Iask Date Report Due
Submit well design and 1 Apr94
location Planfor review
and approval
Begin Construction 14 Oct 94
Begin Monitoring 18 Nov 94 15Dec 94 •
I WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ARBUCKLE PUBUC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY -6-
The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each compliance report
date, a report detailing compliance or noncompliance with the specific schedule
date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, the reasons for such
noncompliance shall be stated, plus an estimate of the date when the Discharger
will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Board by letter when it
returns to compliance with the time schedule.
6. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by
operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
7. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most
current edition of ·Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction
Purposes•. Other uses of reclaimed water not specifically authorb:ed herein shall
be subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and shall comply with
22 CCR, Division 4.
8. The Boanl will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
I, Wil.llAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true,
and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board, Central Valley Region, on 22 October 1993.
-
'
•
• CALIFORNIA RBGIONAL WATER QUAUTY CONI"ROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 93-208
FOR
ARBUCKLE PUBUC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established under direction of the Board's staff and a
description of the stations shall be attached to this Order.
Prior to construction, plans and specifications for ground water monitoring wells shall be
submitted to Board staff for review and approval.
POND MONITORING
Time of collection of a grab sample shall be recorded. Effluent monitoring shall include at least
the following. Pond monitoring shall include at least the following for each pond containing
wastewater:
Sampling
Constituents llllm T.yJ,e of Sample Freguency
Total Dissolved Oxygen1 mg/1 Grab Monthly
Specific Conductivity µmhos/cm Grab Monthly
Freeboard feet/100 Grab Monthly
pH pH Units Grab Monthly
Odon Observation Monthly
Flow (total influent) mgd Cumulative Weekly
1 Dissolved Oxygen shall be sampled prior to 8:00 a. m. in the upper 1 foot of wastewater
in the ponds
SLUDGE MONITORING
A composite sample of sludge shall be collected annually and tested for the following metals:
Arsenic Copper
Cadmium Lead
Chromium Mercury Nickel Zinc
Molybdenum
Selenium
•
• ' . MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
ARBUCKLE PUBUC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY -2-
A log shall be kept of sludge quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The
frequency of entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as
a basis for part of the annual report.
WATER SUPPLY MONITORING
A sampling station shall be established where a representative sample of the municipal water
supply can be obtained. Water supply monitoring shall include at least the following:
Constituents
Electrical Conductivity
@2Soc µmhos/cm Sampling
frmyency
Quarterly
GROUND WATER MONITORING
Prior to construction, plans and specifications for ground water monitoring wells (a minimum
of three) shall be submitted to Board staff for review and approval
Sampling
Constituents llni1I FRQ1lel)cy
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm Quarterly
@25°C
pH pH Units Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml Quarterly
Elevation of Ground Water feet MSL, measured Quarterly
to nearest 0.01 foot
Nitrates mg/I Quarterly
1 Ground water monitoring shall be used to calculate the gradient and direction of flow.
REPORTING
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that
the date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be
summarized in such a manner to illustrate clearly the compliance with waste discharge
requirements.
•
• MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
ARBUCICLB PUBUC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNl'Y -3-
Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board by the 20th day of the
following month.
The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in
the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported to the Board.
Upon written request of the Board, the Discharger shall submit a report to the Board by 30
January of each year. The report shall contain both tabular and graphical summaries of the
monitoring data obtained during the previous year. In addition, the Discharger shall discuss the
compliance record and the corrective actions taken or planned which may be needed to bring the
discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
(Date)
'
• \
ARBUCKLE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
COLUSA COUNTY
Section 26,Tl4N,R2W,MDB&M
USGS 7.5 Min. Arbuckle Quad.
Scale: 1 inch= 2000 feet
Attachment A
•
N
• Arbuckle Public Utility District
Wastewater Treatment Plant
POND NO. 5 POND NO. 4
POND NO. 7 POND N0.8
SLUDGE DRYING BED MachmentB H
I
EMERGENCY
STORAGE
POND I
I
' INFORMATION SHEET
ARBUCKLE PUBUC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNI'Y
The Arbuckle Public Utility District's wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) is approximately
one mile north of the community between Bailey Road and Salt Cleek. The Community of
Arbuckle currently generates approximately 0.28 million gallons per day (mgd) of domestic
wastewater. 1be WWTP is designed for treatment and disposal of 0.5 mgd. The treatment
and disposal system consists of an influent pump station, emergency storage pond, primary
clarifier, evaporation/percolation ponds, sludge digester and a sludge drying bed. The
facility has seven evaporation/percolation ponds for treatment and disposal of wastewater.
Generally, only one of the seven ponds is used because of a high percolation rate estimated
at 250,000 gallons/acre/day. The updated permit includes ground water quality limitations
and a ground water monitoring program.
--v·