wastewater treatment and
disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No.
B.2, the dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of
wastewater in ponds shall not be less than 1.0 mg/1.
4. The treatment and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed,
operated, and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to
floods with a 100-year return frequency.
5. The effluent from the treatment ponds shall not contain constituents
in excess of the following:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ARMONA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KINGS COUNTY
Constituent
BOD 1
Setileable Solids Units
mg/1
ml/1 Monthly
Average
40
0.2
1 Five-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand. Daily
Maximum
80
0.5 -4-
6. The Discharge shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.5.
7. The maximum specific electrical conductivity (EC) of the discharge
shall not exceed the average EC of the source water plus 500
µmhos/cm, or a maximum of 1,000 µmhos/cm, whichever is less.
8. Areas irrigated with reclaimed water shall be managed so as to
prevent the breeding of mosquitos. More specifically:
a. Tail water must be returned and all irrigation water must
infiltrate completely within a 48-hr period.
b. Ditches must be maintained free of emergent, marginal, and
floating vegetation.
c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible
to mosquitoes shall not be used to store reclaimed waters.
9. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In
particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water
surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the
water surface.
10. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means
as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
11. The evaporation-percolation ponds shall have sufficient capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal
precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
nonirrigation season. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based
'-.... -;,_,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ARMONA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KINGS COUNTY -5-
on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years,
distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
Freeboard shall never be less than 1.5 feet (measured vertically).
12. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity
shall at least equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge
Specification B.11 above.
13. Storm water runoff from the irrigation fields shall not be discharged
to any surface water drainage course within 30 days of the last
wastewater application.
C. Sludge Disposal:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes shall be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with
Chapter 15, and approved by the Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be
reported to the Executive Officer at least 60 days in advance of the
change.
3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal
and state laws and regulations, and with Clean Water Act (CWA)
Section 405(d) technical standards when promulgated. If an
applicable management practice or numerical limitation for pollutants
in sewage sludge is promulgated under Section 405(d) of the CWA that
is more stringent than the sludge pollutant limit or management
practice specified in existing federal or state laws or regulations,
the Discharger shall comply no later than the compliance deadline
specified in the applicable regulations.
D. GROUND WATER LIMITATIONS
The Discharge, in combination ~ith other sources, shall not cause
underlying ground water to:
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater
than