Ops. CO-0068
 The Wastewater System is capable of treating a 500,000 gallons per day to a
Secondary treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment
technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 3.

Table 3. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment Grinder followed by Coarse Screen 1" Rack
Headworks capacity (gpd): 500,000
Primary Treatment Primary Clarifier
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 500,000
Secondary Treatment Synthetic Media Trickling Filter Followed by Secondary
Clarifier
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 500,000
Tertiary Treatment N/A
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): N/A
Disinfection N/A
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): N/A
Wastewater Disposal
Method Percolation Pond
Disposal capacity (gpd): 500,000
Biosolids/Sludge Production and Handling Scum pit is backfilled from anaerobic digester, and
vaccumed and hauled off weekly. Quarterly, sludge is hauled directly from the digester.

Historically, sludge was dried in on- site sludge drying beds
and then the dried biosolids word disced into fields located within Atascadero State Hospital Property. Because the drying beds are unlined, use of the drying beds is no longer allowed. Additionally, because disposal of biosolids
to land is inconsistent with Part 503 of the Federal Code of
Department of State Hospitals - Atascadero October 4, 202 4
- 3 - Regulations for biosolids disposal, this practice is no
longer allowed.
Annual production of biosolids: Approx. 6 tons
Biosolids/sludge are hauled offsite by Amerigard, LLC
Non-Potable Recycled
Water Non-potable recycled
water produced onsite: No, wastewater system does
NOT produce non- potable
recycled water
Recycled water usage
areas: N/A
Enrolled in WQ 2016-0068- DDW: No, this wastewater system is
NOT enrolled in WQ 2016-
0068 -DDW
Recycled water production
volume (gpd): N/A

3. Wastewater System Specific Requirements and Limitations
California Department of State Hospitals must operate the Wastewater System in
accordance with the General Permit and this notice of a pplicability. California
Department of State Hospitals must comply with the wastewater specific limitations
specif ied in Table 4 through Table 7.

Flow limitations are shown in Table 4. E ffluent limitations are shown in Table 5 and
Table 6.
A. Flow Limitations:
Table 4. Flow Limitations

===PLANNED CHANGES===

