Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems
operational performance. However, for each individual lot, the homeowner is responsible for their system maintenance and operation costs. Monito ring and regulatory overhead costs are borne by
the whole Subdivision. Regulatory authority is established with th e formation of the Auburn Lake
Trails Subdivision On-Site Wastewater Treatment Zone pursuant to GDPUD Resolution No. 84-6. “The DISTRICT shall investigat e, test, design, operate, monitor, inspect, and if necessary,
maintain and repair the On-Site Wastewater Dis posal Systems within the Zone at the individual
homeowner's expense."

23. The Discharger has been monitoring annually th e surface water into and out of the subdivision
with seven monitoring stations. Two monitoring stations were changed in 1998. The Cool Outlet
Ditch a water supply irrigation ditch leaving Aubu rn Lake Trails Subdivision tributary to South
Fork American River was changed to Penobscot and Paymaster Creek was changed to CDS Creek
a spring fed stream tributary to South Fork American River.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 5
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


24. Past monitoring has included water quality data from a selection of twenty-five mound systems
and the water levels in and around the Community Disposal System.

25. Community Leachfield (Community Disposal Sy stem) Groundwater Monitoring was specified in
the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP ) Order No. 84-126, however no groundwater
monitoring data has been collected or submitted to the Board since 1991. Previously an unsealed
inspection riser was historically u tilized for monitoring purposes.

26. These Waste Discharge Requirements call for in stallation of groundwater monitoring wells and
collection of groundwater-monitoring data to complete the monitoring program specified in MRP
Order No. 84-126 and evaluate compliance with State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB)
Resolution No. 68-16 (hereafter Resolution 68- 16 or the “Antidegradation Policy”). The
Discharger is to provide information regarding the construction of groundwater monitoring wells
using Attachment B ( Information Needs For Monitoring Well Installation Workplan And Results
Report ), which is attached hereto and made a part of this Order by reference.

Sanitary Sewer System

27. Wastewater from each residential unit’s septic tank flows by gravity or is pumped up to the
community collection system. Th ere are a total of 38 manholes, 11,000 feet of collection line, a
lift station and wet well, and appr oximately 1,800 feet of force main all attached to the community
leachfields. The lift station is equipp ed with emergency electrical backup.

28. The Discharger’s sanitary sewer system collects only septic tank effluent into sewers and pipes,
and directs this partially tr eated sewage to the efflue nt lift station. From th e lift station the effluent
is pumped to a large tank for distribution to th e leachfields. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is
defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the sanitary sewer system at any point
upstream of the leachfield. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells,
regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines, etc.) are pa rt of a sanitary sewer system and discharges
to these facilities are not cons idered sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully
contained within these temporar y storage/conveyance facilities.

29. Sanitary sewer overflows consist of varying mixt ures of domestic sewage. This mixture depends
on the pattern of land use in the sewage collectio n system tributary to the overflow. The chief
causes of sanitary sewer overflows include grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages,
sewer line flood damage, manhole structure failures, vandalism, pump station mechanical failures,
power outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and contractor caused
blockages.

30. Only one lot in the subdivision is zoned commercial. The Property Owners Association Building
presently occupies this commerci al lot and is served by a conventional onsite disposal system.

31. Sanitary sewer overflows often contain high leve ls of suspended solids, pathogenic organisms,
toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding or ganic compounds, oil and grease, and other
pollutants. Sanitary sewer overflows can cause temporary excedences of a pplicable water quality
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 6
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


objectives, pose a threat to public health, advers ely affect aquatic life, and impair the public
recreational use and aesthetic enjoym ent of surface waters in the area.

32. The Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate, and prevent
discharges from its sanitary sewer collection sy stem. This Order requir es the Discharger to
prepare and implement a Sanitary Sewer System Operation, Maintenance, Overflow Prevention,
and Response Plan.

Planned Changes in Discharge

33. Discharger has prepared a "Summary Report of On-Site Disposal Suitability for Auburn Lake
Trails Subdivision", dated May 1984, revised Ju ne and July 1984,which finds, subject to
conditions and limitations stated therein, that approximately 1105, but not exceeding 1110 lots
have been judged suitable for on-site disposal in Auburn Lake Trails.

34. However, the number of residential lots and the single commercial lot (Property Owners
Association Building) in the Zone which the Discharger serves is to be no more than 1,100 single
family residential units with one residential un it connected to the clubhouse and not more than 12
other on-site disposal systems units used for the equestrian center, office complex, clubhouse,
swimming pool, tennis court, campground, and a sm all building used by a private day school.

35. El Dorado County Ordinance Chapter 15.33 became effective after merging and re-division of the
Subdivision into lots necessary to conform to the Zone plan had ta ken place in early 1984. Section
15.22.050 codifies the Zone plan with respect to maximum housing density. It provides that no
more than one thousand one hundred (1,100) single -family residences may be constructed within
the boundaries of the subdivision. Merging, ad justments, and subdividing was accomplished
pursuant to sections 66499.20 ½ or 66499.20 ¾ of the Subdivision Map Act, local ordinance, and
other acceptable methods by El Dorado County. (Ord. 3507 §2, 1984)

36. The Discharger has increased the size of th e Community Disposal System capacity. The old
system consisted of 4,900 lineal feet of trenches. The Discharger has retrofitted the old field with
trench valves and distribution structures and added 6,700 lineal feet of new trenches (total trench
area/ft is calculated to be 4.8 ft2/ft).

37. Based on the amount of new linear footage leach line added and 6.19 gpd/ft calculated from the
percolation data soil hydraulic acceptance ra te, the new field flow capacity is 41,500 gpd.

38. Assuming the same characteristics for the old leachfield and using 4,700 linear feet, the flow
capacity for the old leachfield is estimated to be 30,300 gpd.

39. The new trenches have been added adjacent (paralle l) to the existing old disposal trenches. They
have been installed in five separate areas, w ith interconnecting undergrou nd pipe. The trenches
are built on contour and staggered do wn the hill. Depending on the ar ea, there will be from 5 to 13
trenches, from 100 feet in length to 330 feet.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 7
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


40. The newly added trenches will allow disposal while the existing old trenches are being self
repaired (rehabilitated) through resting. Ultimat ely once the old system can be brought back
online, the trenches will be system atically dosed to ensure longevity.

41. No new lots have been added to the original subdivision or created by su bdividing existing lots as
a result of this retrofitting and in crease in community leachfield size.

Site-Specific Conditions

42. El Dorado County Board of Supervisors adopted amendments to their Ordinance Code providing
for on-site system design criteria in Auburn Lake Trails Subdiv ision. The Ordinance contains
variances from the Regional Board’s Guidelines for Waste Disposal From Land Developments
(Guidelines) and the State Water Res ources Control Board’s Guidelines For Mound Systems .
Regional Board staff, pursuant to Section 6960 of the Health and Safety Code, on 26 October 1984
reviewed and approved the proposed variances. The variances are contained wholly in
Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made a part of this Order by reference. They are
summarized as follows:

a. Percolation test and soil prof ile analyses are both required.
b. A pressure dosed special design system is allo wed to have only four feet of soil beneath the
distribution manifold provided that it is free from the effects of groundwater and possess
appropriate textural and stru ctural characteristics to promote effective renovation of
wastewater.
c. No property shall be improved in excess of its capacity to absorb sewage effluent unless
additional/alternate disposal capacity is available elsewhere in the Zone.
d. Mound Design Criteria Variances as follows:
i. 12 percent slope for <60 mpi is changed to 14 percent slope
ii. Fill depth below Bed/Trench (Mound Body) with percolation <10 mpi calls for 36 inches is
changed to 48 inches and unsaturated soil.
iii. Fill depth below Bed/Trench (Mound Body) with percolation 10 to 60 mpi calls for 24
inches is changed to 60 inches and permeable soil.
iv. Unsaturated Depth of 24 inches changed to 18 inches minimum (ground surface to
groundwater or pervious or fractured bedrock).
v. Minimum Soil Depth of 36 inches changed to 30 inches (ground surface to impermeable
surface).

43. After public hearings, the Discha rger adopted Resolution 84-6, whic h authorized types of systems
and design criteria variances (Exhibit D of Re solution 84-6) and El Dorado County Board of
Supervisors adopted amendments to their Or dinance Code (Exhibit G of Resolution 84-6)
providing for on-site system design criteria and va riances in Auburn Lake Trails Subdivision. The
Regional Board concurred with th e design criteria and variances of Resolution 84-6 by adopting
WDRs Order No. 84-126.

44. The Discharger requested review and comment from the Board on changes to the variances for
Mound Design Criteria d. ii and iii above in a lett er dated 20 January 1993. The Board did not
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 8
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


formally respond. The Discharger’s procedure to a dopt variances to Resolution 84-6 shall be with
a GDPUD Board resolution and obtai n written approval from the El Dorado Environmental Health
Director prior to changes becoming law pursuan t to El Dorado County Ordinance 15.33.070. The
Discharger has not provided confirmation of th e required variance process and has implemented
these design criteria variances without response or action from the Boar d. Regional Board staff
cannot concur with the changes to the design crite ria and variances propose d in the Discharger’s
letter dated 20 January 1993.

45. All other criteria for on-site systems remain the same as set forth in both the Regional Board
Guidelines for Waste Disposal From Land Developments and the State Water Resources Control
Board Guidelines for Mound Systems dated January 1980.

46. The Subdivision’s drinking water supply is from Stumpy Meadows Reservoir. Auburn Lake Trails
Water Treatment Plant supplies water to the Pilot H ill, Cherry Acres, and Cool areas. There are no
domestic, agricultural, or industrial wells within the Subdivision. The Covenants, Conditions and
Restrictions for the subdivision prohibit the construction of a ny well within the subdivision.
However, there are domestic wells outs ide the boundary of the subdivision.

Groundwater Considerations

47. This Order requires groundwater monitoring within the subdivision and on the perimeter of the
community leachfield disposal system to ensure compliance with the Board’s “Antidegradation
Policy” as described herein.

Groundwater Degradation

48. State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB ) Resolution No. 68-16 requires the Board in
regulating the discharge of waste to maintain high quality waters of the state until it is
demonstrated that any change in quality will be c onsistent with maximum benefit to the people of
the State, will not unreasonably aff ect beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality less than
that described in the Board’s policies (e.g., qua lity that exceeds water quality objectives).

49. The Board finds that some degradation of groundw ater beneath the wastewater collection system
and effluent subsurface land a pplication areas (leachfields) is consistent with Resolution 68-16
provided that:

a. The degradation is confined within specified boundaries;
b. The discharger minimizes the degradation by fully implementing, regularly maintaining, and
optimally operating best practicable tr eatment and control (BPTC) measures;
c. The degradation is limited to waste constituents typically encount ered in municipal wastewater
as specified in the groundwater limitations in this Order; and
d. The degradation does not result in water quality less than th at prescribed in the Basin Plan.

50. The past four years monitoring data reported to th e Board appears to suggest that three constituents
monitored near the mound system lower interface and native soil may be elevated in groundwater
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 9
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


beneath the subdivision above water quality objectives. Each year, 25 mound systems are
inspected and water samples are collected from the upper and lower monitoring risers. Over the past four years, 100 mound systems have been insp ected. 39 of these had water samples collected,
and 33 systems had at least one or more elevated constituents above water quality objectives in the
lower riser located near the toe of the mounded syst em. Below are the yearly numbers of elevated
results from only the lower riser for the listed constituents:

Mound Systems Sampled w/elevated Constituents
Year # of
Systems
Sampled Systems
w/elevated
constituents Total Coliform
> 2.2 MPN/
100 ml Nitrate
> 10 mg/l Ammonia
> 0.5 mg/l
1998 11 9 8 3 0
1999 9 8 6 3 2
2000 9 6 3 3 3
2001 10 9 9 5 0

Water samples used to provide data for the above ta ble were collected from the lower risers located
near the toe of the Mound System. Inspection risers are typically sh allow, not sealed, and therefore
cannot be used to monitor the quality of the groundwater bene ath the subdivision. The above
monitoring data represents the qual ity of effluent as it leaves th e Mound System and is used only as
an indicator of the Mound System’s effectivene ss and possibly the groundwater beneath it. The
above data suggests the possi bility that some systems may be operating marginally.

51. Some degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste consti tuents released with
discharge from a municipal wastewat er utility after effective source control, treatment, and control
is consistent with maximum benefit to the pe ople of California. The technology, energy, water
recycling, and waste management advantages of municipal utility service fa r exceed any benefits
derived from a community otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater
systems, and the impact on water quality will be s ubstantially less. Degradation of groundwater by
constituents (e.g., toxic chemicals) other than those specified in the groundwater limitations in
this Order, and by constituents that can be effectively removed by conventional treatment (e.g.,
total coliform bacteria) is prohibited. When allowed, the degree of degradation permitted depends upon many factors (i.e., background wa ter quality, the waste constituen t, the beneficial uses and
most stringent water quality objective, source co ntrol measures, waste constituent treatability).

52. Economic prosperity of local communities and a ssociated industry is of maximum benefit to the
people of California, and ther efore sufficient reason exists to accommodate groundwater
degradation beneath the subdivisi on and around the wastewater treatme nt systems described herein,
provided that the terms of the Basin Plan are met.

53. These waste discharge requirements do not allo w degradation of groundwater beyond the perimeter
of the community leachfields or the development. The Discharger is required to monitor the
groundwater around the perimeter of the leachfields and the development and if the monitoring
data indicate that the discharge of waste to the leachfields and on-site systems within the
development is causing groundwater to contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 10
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


greater than background water qualit y, then the Discharger may be required to submit a report to
indicate how such degradation will comply with Resolution 68-16. Upon review of such report,
the Board may revise this Order, including the groundwater limitations.

Treatment and Control Practices

54. These wastewater treatment systems provide treatment and control of the discharge that
incorporates:

a. Technology for treatment of municipal wastewater;
b. Recycling of wastewater through subsurface disposal;
c. An ordinance prohibiting industrial or co mmercial discharges to these systems;
d. An operation and maintenance (O&M) manual; and
e. Staffing to assure proper mon itoring, operation, and maintenance.

55. The Community Collection System, Community Disposal System, and each individual on-site
wastewater disposal system within the subdivi sion collect and treat wastewater to primary
standards utilize the soil treatment capacity to ensure complia nce with Resolution 68-16. Because
of shallow water table, thin soil mantle, and ot her geological hazards, there is a reduced soil
assimilative capacity and constitu ent treatment and attenuation within the vadose zone, which in
some cases is less than recommended by Board Guidelines . In addition, the potential impacts on
groundwater and the appropriate leve l of degradation that complies with Resolution 68-16 have not
been fully evaluated. Therefore, the Discharger ’s current effort may not constitute BPTC as
intended in Resolution 68-16, and th is Order establishes a schedule fo r tasks to evaluate BPTC for
each conveyance, treatment, storage, and disposal component of the facility and to further
characterize groundwater for selected constituents. Completion of these tasks, and implementation
of the approved strategies developed from that work, will ensure that BPTC and the highest water
quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State will be achieved.

56. This Order establishes interim groundwater limitations for th e various wastewater treatment
systems employed within the Subdivision that will not unreasonably th reaten present and
anticipated beneficial uses or re sult in groundwater quality that exceeds water quality objectives set
forth in the Basin Plan. This Or der contains tasks for assuring that BPTC and the highest water
quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State will be achieved.
Accordingly, the discharge is consistent with the antidegradation provisions of Resolution 68-16.
Based on the results of the scheduled tasks, th e Board may reopen this Order to reconsider
groundwater limitations and other requireme nts to comply with Resolution 68-16.

57. Wastewater discharges to the subsurface land applic ation areas must be fully contained beneath the
ground surface. Storm water runoff from these areas is allowed provided all effluent is contained
beneath the soil surface and does not contact or commingle in anyway with the storm water.




WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 11
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

58. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacrament o River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth
Edition , (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes wa ter quality objectives,
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin, and incorporates by
reference plans and policies adopted by the St ate Water Resources Control Board. These
requirements implement the Basin Plan.

59. Surface drainage from the subdivision is tributary to the Middle and South Forks of the American
River and Folsom Lake Reservoir and tributary to the Sacramento River.

60. The beneficial uses of the Mi ddle and South Fork American Rive r are municipal, industrial, and
agricultural supply; recr eation; esthetic enjoyment; navigati on; ground water recharge; fresh water
replenishment; hydroelectric power generation; and preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife
and other aquatic resources.

61. The beneficial uses of the underlying groundwat er are municipal, domestic, agricultural, and
industrial supply.

62. The Basin Plan establishes numerical and narrative water quality object ives for surface and
groundwater within the basin, and recognizes that water quality obj ectives are achieved primarily
through the Board’s adoption of waste discharge requirements and enforcement orders. Where
numerical water quality objectiv es are listed, these are limits necessary for the reasonable
protection of beneficial uses of the water. Where complian ce with narrative water quality
objectives is required, the Board will, on a case-by-case basis, adopt numerical limitations in
orders, which will implement the narrative objectives to protect beneficial uses of the waters of the
state.

63. The Basin Plan identifies numer ical water quality objectives for waters designated as municipal
supply. These are the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) specified in the following provisions
of Title 22, California Code of Regulations: Tables 64431-A (Inorganic Chemicals) and 64431-B
(Fluoride) of Section 64431, Table 64444-A (Organic Chemicals) of Section 64444, and Table 64449-A (Secondary Maximum Contaminant Levels -Consumer Acceptance Limits) of Section
64449. The Basin Plan’s incorporation of these provisions by reference is prospective, and
includes future changes to the inco rporated provisions as the change s take effect. The Basin Plan
recognizes that the Board may apply limits more stri ngent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not
contain chemical constituents in concentratio ns that adversely affect beneficial uses.

64. The Basin Plan contains narrative water quality objectives for chem ical constituents and toxicity.
The toxicity objective requires th at groundwater be maintained free of toxic substances in
concentrations that produce detrimental physiol ogical responses in plants or animals. The
chemical constituent objective requires that groundw ater shall not contain chemical constituents in
concentrations that adversel y affect beneficial uses.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 12
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


65. Section 13241 of the Water Code requires the Regional Board to consider various factors,
including economic considerations , when adopting water quality obj ectives into its Basin Plan.
Water Code Section 13263 requires the Regional Bo ard to address the factors in Section 13241 in
adopting waste discharge requirements. The State Board, however, has held that a Regional Board
need not specifically address the Section 13241 f actors when implementing existing water quality
objectives in waste discharge requirements becau se the factors were already considered in
adopting water quality objectives. These waste discharge requirements implement adopted water
quality objectives. Therefore, no additional an alysis of Section 13241 factors is required.

66. The United States Environmental Protection Ag ency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids reuse
regulations in 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Dis posal of Sewage Sludge, which establishes
management criteria for protection of ground and surface waters, sets app lication rates for heavy
metals, and establishes stabilization and disinfection criteria.

67. The district does not intend to handle biosolids, sludge, or screenings. The removal and disposal
of septic tank sludge i.e. septage, is acco mplished utilizing permitted septic tank pumpers.
Pumpers are required to dispose of the septage at an approved, permitted facility.

68. The Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines in establishing this Order, but the
Board is not the implementing agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The Discharger may have
separate and/or additional compliance, repor ting, and permitting respons ibilities to the EPA.

69. The State Water Resources Control Board a dopted Order No. 97-03-DWQ (General Permit No.
CAS000001) specifying waste discharg e requirements for discharges of storm water associated
with industrial activities, and requiring subm ittal of a Notice of Inte nt or Notice of Non
Applicability (NONA) by all affected industrial di schargers. The wastewater treatment primarily
takes place underground and is designed to allo w all storm water to runoff to surface water
drainage courses, as would other subsurface facilitie s. Because there is no real appreciable contact
of industrial equipment with the storm water to be discharged, the Discharger is not required to
obtain coverage under General Permit No. CAS000001 and should file a NONA.

70. Section 13267(b) of the California Water Code provides that: “I n conducting an investigation
specified in subdivision (a), th e regional board may require that any person who has discharged,
discharges, or is suspect ed of discharging, or who proposes to discharge within its region, or any
citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or
is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste outside of its region that could
affect the quality of the waters of the state within its region sha ll furnish, under penalty of perjury,
technical or monitoring program re ports which the board requires. The burden, including costs of
these reports, shall bear a reasonabl e relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be
obtained from the reports.”

71. The California Department of Wa ter Resources sets standards for the construction and destruction
of groundwater wells (hereafter DWR Well Standards), as described in California Well Standards
Bulletin 74-90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards: State of California Bulletin 94-81
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 13
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


(December 1981). These standards, and any more stringent standards adopted by the Discharger
or county pursuant to CWC Secti on 13801, apply to all monitoring wells.

72. State regulations that prescribe procedures for detecting and char acterizing the impact of waste
constituents from waste management units on groundwater are found in Title 27. While the
wastewater treatment facility is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods of Title 27 are
appropriate for determining whether the discha rge complies with the terms for protection of
groundwater specified in this Order.

73. The discharge authorized herein and the treatme nt and storage facilities associated with the
discharge, except for discharges of residual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the requirements of Title 27, California Code of Re gulations (CCR), Section 20380 et seq. (hereafter
Title 27). The exemption, pursuant to Title 27 CCR Section 20090(a), is based on the following:

a. The waste consists primarily of do mestic sewage and treated effluent;
b. The waste discharge requirements are cons istent with water qu ality objectives; and
c. The treatment and storage f acilities described herein are associated with a municipal
wastewater treatment plant and/or single-family residences with on-site systems regulated by a public entity.

74. Pursuant to California Water Code Section 132 63(g), discharge is a pr ivilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a ve sted right to continue the discharge.

California Environmental Qu ality Act Considerations

75. On 10 August 1999, the Georgetown Divide Public Utility District certified a Negative Declaration
for the community disposal field re habilitation and expansion project.

76. The action to revise waste disc harge requirements for GDPUD is exempt from the provisions of
the California Environmental Quality Act in accordance with Sections 15261(b), 15301, and
15304.

Public Notice

77. The Board considered all the a bove and the supplemental informati on and details in the attached
Information Sheet, which is incorporated by re ference herein, in establishing the following
conditions of discharge.

78. The Board has notified the Discharg er and interested agencies and persons of its intent to prescribe
waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and has provided them with an opportunity for a
public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and recommendations.

79. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the discharge.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 14
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 84-126 is rescinded a nd that, pursuant to California Water
Code (CWC) sections 13263 and 13267, Georgetown Di vide Public Utility District, its agents,
successors, and assigns, in order to meet the pr ovisions contained in Division 7 of the CWC and
regulations adopted thereunder, sh all comply with the following:

[Note: Other prohibitions, conditi ons, definitions, and some methods of determining compliance are
contained in the attached "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge
Requirements” dated 1 March 1991, which are part of this Order. This atta chment and its individual
paragraphs are referred to as “ Standard Provisions”.]

A. Discharge Prohibitions

1. The discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.

2. The by-pass or overflow of wastes or partially treated wastes to surface waters or surface water
drainage courses is prohibited.

3. The discharge of sewage from a sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the leachfields
is prohibited.

4. The discharge of co-mingled wastewater and st orm water runoff to surface waters or surface
water drainage courses is prohibited.

5. The discharge of effluent or tr eated wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that
described in the above Findings is prohibited.

6. The application of wastewater to the subsurface disposal fiel ds at rates that would cause
effluent resurfacing or create a nuisan ce as defined CWC 13050 is prohibited.

7. Surfacing of wastewater from any leachfield is prohibited.

8. The use of the subsurface land application areas as grazing pasture for animals, roads, storage,
or any kind of construction activity is prohibited.

9. The land spreading of sludge, solid s, screenings, or biosolids on th e wastewater disposal area or
elsewhere within the Subdivision is prohibited.

10. The discharge of wastewater dire ctly to groundwater is prohibited.

11. The Discharger is prohibited from changing th e types of systems and design criteria variances
in Attachment C unless approved by the Execu tive Officer, El Dorado County Environmental
Health Director, and adopted by the Georgetown Divide Public Utility District Board in a
resolution pursuant to El Dorado County Ordinance 15.33.070.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 15
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


12. The discharge of waste classified as “hazardous” or “designated”, as defined in the California
Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 27, is prohibited.

13. The acceptance of waste other than septic tank effluent generated within the subdivision is
prohibited.

B. Discharge Specifications

1. The number of on-site wastewater disposal sy stems to be operated within the Auburn Lake
Trails On-Site Wastewater Disposal Zone shall not exceed 1,100 per El Dorado County
Ordinance No. 15.33.050.

2. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall cause a pollution or nuisance as defined by the
California Water Code, Section 13050.

3. The discharge to all on-site wastewater disposal systems within the Zone and the discharge to
the CDS shall remain underground at all times.

4. The discharge shall not cause concentrations of any materials that are deleterious to animal,
aquatic, human or plant life in any surface water or drainage course outside of the designated
disposal area.

5. The maximum average monthly flow to the CDS shall not exceed 71,800 gpd.

6. The waste discharge of partially treated wastes shall remain in the desi gnated disposal areas at
all times.

7. Only residential household domestic waste may be discharged to each septic tank/leaching
systems. All other wastes shall be disposed off-site.

8. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through subsurface disposal irrigation
management practices and signs.

9. Objectionable odors originating at the Community Collection and Disposal System or any of
the individual on-site systems shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of the wastewater
treatment and disposal areas a ssociated with these systems.

10. Signs with proper wording of sufficient si ze shall be placed around areas where potential
contact exposure may exist to alert the public of the disposal practice.

11. Septic Tank Effluent applied to the subsurf ace Community Disposal System shall not exceed
the following monthly average limits:

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 16
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


Constituent Units Monthly Average
BOD 5 1mg/l 200
Total Suspended Solids mg/l 90
Oil and Grease mg/l 30
1 Five day Biochemical Oxygen Demand

12. All treatment, storage, and dis posal facilities shall be desi gned, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency as
required by Regional Board Reso lution No. 71-124, Guideline 8.

13. Discharger shall maintain a 100-foot bu ffer from the property line to the CDS.

C. General Solids Disposal Specifications

1. Sludge, as used in this document, means th e solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed
during primary, secondary, or advan ced wastewater treatment proce sses. Solid waste refers to
grit and screening material generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge means
sludge that will not be subject to further trea tment by each septic tank. Biosolids refers to
sludge that has undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to
federal and state regulations as a soil amendmen t for agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and
land reclamation.

2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from sc reens, sumps, septic tanks, wet well, collection
pipelines, etc. as needed to ensure optimal systems operation. At a minimum, all existing and new septic tanks shall be checked annually fo r sludge depth and pumped when the depth of
scum and sludge is equal to or greater than 25% of the tank volume. The Discharger shall
educate residents on the need for maintenance, wast es that can be disposed to their system and
maintain records on each system’s compliance.

3. The removal of septic tank sludge, solids, screeni ngs, grease, etc is to be performed by licensed
septic tank pumpers. Pumpers are required to dispose of the removed material at a permitted facility. The Discharger shall be responsible to make sure that each septic tank within the
subdivision has been monitored and homeowner is duly notified and aware of required maintenance in a timely manner.

4. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shal l be disposed of in a manner approved by the
Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for further treatment, disposal, or reuse at sites (i.e., landfill, Wastewater tr eatment Plant, composting site) operated in
accordance with waste discharge requirements is sued by a regional water quality control board
will satisfy this specification.

5. Any proposed change in screeni ngs, sludge, solid, or residual sludge use or disposal practice
from the previously approved practice shall be reported to the Executive Officer at least 90
days in advance of the change.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 17
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


6. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing Federal and State laws and
regulations, including permitting requirements a nd technical standards included in 40 CFR 503.

7. If the State Water Resources C ontrol Board and the Regional Water Quality Control Boards are
given the authority to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR 503, this Order may be
reopened to incorporate appropria te time schedules and technica l standards. The Discharger
must comply with the standards and time sche dules contained in 40 CFR 503 whether or not
they have been incorporated into this Order.

D. Groundwater Limitations

1. Release of waste constituents fr om any storage, treatment, or disposal component associated
with the Community Collection, Community Disposal System, or individual on-site systems
shall not cause groundwater under and beyond the storage or treatment component, as
determined by an approved well monitoring network, to:

a. Contain any of the following constituents in concentration greater than as listed or greater
than ambient background quality, whichever is greater:

Constituent
 Units Limitation
Boron mg/l 0.6
Chloride mg/l 106
Iron mg/l 0.3
Manganese mg/l 0.05
Sodium mg/l 69
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/ 100 ml Nondetect
Total Dissolved Solids1mg/l 450
Total Nitrogen mg/l 10
 Nitrite (as N) mg/l 1
 Nitrate (as N) mg/l 10
 Ammonia (as N) mg/l 0.5
Chloroform µg/l 1.1
Bromodichloromethane µg/l 0.27
Dibromochloromethane µg/l 0.37
Bromoform µg/l 4.0
1. A cumulative impact limit that accounts for several dissolved
constituents in addition to those listed here separately [e.g., alkalinity
(carbonate and bicarbonate), calcium, hardness, phosphate, potassium, etc.]

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 18
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


b. Contain any constituent not id entified in Groundwater Limitations D.1.a. in concentrations
greater than background quality (whether chemical, physical, biological, bacteriological,
radiological, or some other property or characteristic).
c. Exhibit a pH of less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5 pH Units.
d. Impart taste, odor, toxicity or color that cr eates nuisance or impairs any beneficial use.

2. If groundwater monitoring shows that waste cons tituents are present in concentrations greater
than background, then upon request of the Executiv e Officer, the Discharger shall complete the
report described in Provision E.5.

E. Provisions

All Discharger reports specified below shall be submitted pursuant to Section 13267 of the
California Water Code. Technical reports submitted by or for the Discharger shall be prepared and
wet stamped by the appropriate registered prof essional required by the California Business and
Professions Code. The Discharger shall certif y all reports required by this Order per the
Standard Provisions General Reporting Requirements B.3.

1. By 1 May 2002, the Discharger shall submit a workplan with time line to install a flow meter
just prior to the CDS. The fl ow meter shall be installed by 1 November 2002 .

2. By 7 July 2002, the Discharger shall submit a Sanitary Sewer System Operation, Maintenance,
Overflow Prevention, and Response Plan (SSS Plan) that describes the actions designed to
prevent, or minimize the potential for sanitary sewer overflows. The Discharger shall maintain
the SSS Plan in an up-to-date condition and shal l amend the SSS Plan whenever there is a
change (e.g. in the design, constr uction, operation, or maintenance of the sanitary sewer system
or sewer facilities) that materially affects the potential for sanitary sewer overflows, or
whenever there is a sanitary sewer overflow. Th e Discharger shall ensure that the up-to-date
SSS Plan is readily available to sewer system personnel at all times and that sewer system
personnel are familiar with it.

a. At a minimum, the Operation and Maintenance portion of the plan shall contain or describe
the following:

(1) Detailed maps of the sanitary sewer syst em, identifying sewer mains, manholes, and lift
stations;
(2) A detailed listing of elements to be in spected, a description of inspection procedures
and inspection frequency, and sample inspection forms;
(3) A schedule for routine inspection and testing of all pipelines, lift stations, valves, and
other key system components. The inspect ion/testing program shall be designed to
reveal problems that might lead to accidental spills and ensure that preventive maintenance is completed;
(4) Provisions for repair or replacement of old, worn out, or defective equipment;
(5) Provisions to minimize the need for manua l operation of critical systems and provide
spill alarms or other “fail safe” mechanisms;
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 19
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


(6) The ability to properly manage, operate a nd maintain, at all times, all parts of the
collection system that the Discharger owns or over which the Discharger has
operational control;
(7) The ability to provide adequate capacity to convey base flows and peak flows for all
parts of the collection system the Discharger owns or over which the Discharger has
operational control; and
(8) How the Discharger will take all feasible steps to stop and mitigate the impact of
sanitary sewer overflows in portions of the collection system the Discharger owns or
over which the Discharger has operational control.

b. At a minimum, the Overflow Prevention and Response Plan shall cont ain or describe the
following:

(1) Identification of areas of the collection syst em that historically have overflowed and an
evaluation of the cause of the overflow;
(2) Maintenance activities that can be impleme nted to address the cause of the overflow
and means to prevent future overflows . Maintenance activities may include
pretreatment of wastewater from indu strial dischargers who discharge high
concentrations of oil and gr ease in their wastewater;
(3) Procedures for responding to sanitary sewer overflows designed to minimize the
volume of sewer overflow that enters surface waters, and minimize the adverse effects
of sewer overflows on water qu ality and beneficial uses;
(4) Steps to be taken when an overflow or spill occurs, and procedures that will be
implemented to ensure that all overflows a nd spills are properly identified, responded to
and reported; and
(5) A public notification plan, in which any pos ting of areas contaminated with sewage is
performed at the direction of the El Dorado County Environmental Management Department. All parties with a reasonable potential for exposure to an overflow event
shall be notified.

3. By 1 July 2002, the Discharger shall submit a workplan, prepared by an appropriate registered
professional required by the Calif ornia Business and Professions Code, for characterization of
groundwater quality within the S ubdivision. The workplan shall describe the installation of
additional wells to allow evaluation of the gr oundwater quality upgradient and downgradient of
the application areas. Every monitoring well shall be constructed to yield representative
samples from the uppermost layer of the uppermost aquifer and to comply with applicable well
standards. The workplan shall be consistent with, and include the items listed in, the first
section of Attachment B, “ Items to be Included in a Monitoring Well Installation Workplan and
a Monitoring Well Instal lation Report of Results.”

4. By 1 March 2003, the Discharger shall submit a groundwat er well installation report prepared
by an appropriate registered pr ofessional required by the Califo rnia Business and Professions
Code. The report shall be consistent with, and include the items listed i n, the second section of
Attachment B.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 20
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


5. By 1 March 2004, the Discharger shall submit a Background Groundwater Quality Study
Report . For each groundwater monitoring parameter/constituent identified in the MRP, the
report shall present a summary of monitoring data, calculatio n of the concentration in
background monitoring wells, and comparison of background groundwater quality to that in
wells used to monitor the facility. Determin ation of background quality shall be made using
the methods described in Title 27, Section 20415(e )(10), and shall be based on data from at
least four consecutive quarterly (or more frequent) groundwat er monitoring events. For each
monitoring parameter/constituent, the report sh all compare measured concentrations for
compliance monitoring wells with : 1) the calculated backgr ound concentration, and 2) the
interim numeric limitations set forth in Gr oundwater Limitation E.1.a. Where background
concentrations are statistically greater than the interim limitations specified in Groundwater
Limitation E.1.a, the report shall recomm end final groundwater limitations for waste
constituents listed therein. Subsequent use of a concentration as a final groundwater limitation
will be subject to the discretion of the Executive Officer.

6. If groundwater monitoring results show that the discharge of waste from the Community
Disposal System and/or the on-site system s are causing groundwat er to contain waste
constituents in concentrations statistically greater than back ground water quality, then within
120 days of the request of the Executive Officer , the Discharger shall submit a report
showing that degradation of the groundwater complies with SWRCB Resolution No. 68-16,
i.e., that it is (a) in the best interest of the people of the state, (b) that best practical treatment
and control measures have been implemented to reduce the amount of degradation, (c) that the
groundwater degradation will not ex ceed applicable water quality objectives, and (d) that the
degradation is confined within specified boundaries.

7. By 1 March 2004, the Discharger shall submit a BPTC Evaluation Workplan that sets forth the
scope and schedule for a systematic and co mprehensive technical evaluation of each
component of the facility’s waste treatment and disposal system to determine best practicable
treatment and control for each waste constituent listed in the Groundwater Limitation D.1.a of
this Order. The workplan shall contain a pr eliminary evaluation of each component of the
WWTF and effluent disposal system a nd propose a time schedule for completing the
comprehensive technical evaluation. The schedule to complete the evaluation shall be as short
as practicable, and shall not exceed one year.

8. By 30 January 2005, the Discharger shall submit a BPTC Evaluation Report and
Implementation Workplan . The report shall include a comp rehensive evaluation of the BPTC
measures studied, a discussion of BPTC m easures proposed for implementation (i.e.,
recommendations for WWTF modifications), estimated concentration or mass loading
reductions for each BPTC measure, specific met hods the Discharger proposes to monitor and
assure continuous optimal performance of BPTC measures, the source of funding, and
proposed schedule for modifications. The schedule for full implementation shall be as short as
practicable, and in no case shall it exceed four years past the Executive Officer’s approval of
the workplan unless specifically approve d by the Board. The component evaluation,
recommended improvements, and implementati on schedule are subject to the Executive
Officer’s approval.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 21
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


9. By 30 January 2008, the Discharger shall submit a tech nical report that proposes specific
numeric groundwater limitations that reflect full implementation of BPTC measures, and
describe how these were determined considerin g actual data from compliance monitoring wells,
impact reductions through full implementati on of BPTC, reasonable growth, etc. The
Discharger should submit results of a validated groundwater model to suppor t its proposal. In
addition, the technical report shall describe the overall status of compliance with
implementation of BPTC measures and co mpliance with all groundwater limitations.

10. Upon completion of tasks set fo rth in Provision E.5, 6, 7, 8, and/or 9 the Board shall consider
the evidence provided and make a determination regarding whethe r the Discharger has justified
BPTC and the appropriate final numeric groundwater limitations that comply with
Resolution 68-16.

11. The Discharger shall comply with the M onitoring and Reporting Program No. R5-2002-0031,
which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive Officer.

12. The Discharger shall comply with the "Sta ndard Provisions and Re porting Requirements for
Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are att ached hereto and made part
of this Order by reference. This attachment and its individual pa ragraphs are commonly
referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."

13. The Discharger shall use the best practicable co st-effective control techni que(s) including user
education programs, proper operation, and required maintenance, to comply with discharge limits specified in this order.

14. The Discharger shall provide certified wastewat er treatment plant operators in accordance with
Title 23 of the California Code of Regulations, Division 3, Chapter 26.

15. As described in the Standard Provisions, the Di scharger shall report promptly to the Board any
material change or proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.

16. Upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanita ry sewer system resulting in a sanitary sewer
overflow, the Discharger shall ta ke any necessary remedial acti on to (a) control or limit the
volume of sewage discharged, (b) terminate the sewage discharge as rapidly as possible, and
(c) recover as much as possible of the sewage discharged (including wash down water) for
proper disposal. The Discharger shall implement all applicable remedial actions including, but
not limited to, the following:

a. Interception and rerou ting of sewage flows around the sewage line failure;
b. Vacuum truck recovery of sanitary sewer overflows and wash down water;
c. Use of portable aerators where complete rec overy of the sanitary sewer overflows are not
practicable and where severe oxygen depleti on is expected in surface waters; and
d. Cleanup of sewage-related debris at the overflow site.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 22
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


17. The Discharger shall report to the Board any toxi c chemical release data it reports to the State
Emergency Response Commission within 15 days of reporting the data to the Commission
pursuant to section 313 of the “Emergency Pl anning and Community Right to Know Act of
1986.”

18. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each compliance report due date, the
specified document or, if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or noncompliance
with the specific schedule da te and task. If noncompliance is being reported, then the
Discharge shall state the reasons for such noncom pliance and provide an estimate of the date
when the Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Board in writing
when it returns to compliance with the time schedule.

19. In the event of any change in control or ow nership of land or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shal l be immediately forwarded to this office.

20. At least 90 days prior to termination or e xpiration of any lease, contract, or agreement
involving any disposal areas, used to justify the capacity au thorized herein and assure
compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of the situation and
of what measures have been take n or are being taken to assure full compliance with this Order.

21. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of
technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer . Violations may result in
enforcement action, including Regional Board or court orders requiri ng corrective action or
imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or recession of this Order.

22. The Discharger shall be the sole party respons ible for compliance with the provisions of this
Order.

23. Pursuant to GDPUD Resolution 84 -6, the Discharger shall inve stigate, test, design, operate,
monitor, inspect, and if necessary, maintain and repair the On-Site Wastewater Disposal
Systems within the Zone at the individual homeowner's expense.

24. Pursuant to Auburn Lake Trails On-Site Wast ewater Disposal Zone Rules Regulations and
Standard Practices, Section 85-010, adopted 19 March 1985, the Discharger shall properly
notify the owner of the lot where an on-site se wage disposal system has failed. Upon proper
notification the owner of the lot shall make such modifications or replacement in accordance
with the current ordinances, rule s, and regulations. In the event the owner of the lot should fail
to complete required modifications or replacement within thirty (30) days, then the Discharger
shall make such modifications or replacement.

25. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the Di scharger’s headquarters for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shal l be familiar with its contents.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2002-0031 23
GEORGETOWN DIVIDE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
AUBURN LAKE TRAILS ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ZONE EL DORADO COUNTY


26. A copy of this Order shall be given to all property owners and any subsequent purchaser of any
lot within the Auburn Lake Trails Subdivision On-Site Wastewater Treatment Zone.

27. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.


I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Of ficer, do hereby certify the foregoi ng is a full, true, and correct
copy of an Order adopted by the California Regiona l Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley
Region, on 1 March 2002.




__________________________________
GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer


AMENDED 3/1/02

GWL

gwl\H:\h\Word\WDRs_Eldorado\ AuburnLakeTrails_wdr6.doc