Emergency
Storage/Overflow Unlined Emergency Pond , Infiltration Basin D, and
Controlled Flood Disposal Field s 1 and 2 .
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment The headworks consists of a bar screen and influent
channels with two grinders , then a vortex grit chamber to
settle out large inorganic solids from the influent flow.
Headworks capacity (gpd): 4.0 million gpd (MGD ) peak
hour
Primary and Secondary Treatment Six facultative treatment ponds (Ponds 1 to 6) with surface
aerators , followed by two polishing ponds (Ponds 7 and 8)
function to remove Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD 5)
and Total Suspended Solids (TSS) from the influent
wastewater . The ponds are set up as two parallel trains of
four ponds in series, with each train treating about half of
the flow.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 1,200,000 average
daily flow
Wastewater Disposal Method (Infiltration
Basins) Treated effluent is discharged to one of three 7 -acre
infiltration basins (Basin A, Basin B, and Basin C) . An
infiltration study at the site suggests long- term infiltration
rates to be on the order of 1.5 f eet per day (3 ,500,000 gpd
per basin) . When first -encountered groundwater elevations
rise in the area , disposal capacity can significantly
decrease, as reported in 2024 monitoring reports.
Maximum e stimated maximum disposal capacity (gpd):
3,500,000 (in dry years)
Emergency Wastewater Disposal (Infiltration Basin and Controlled Flood Disposal Field s) Treated effluent may be discharged into a temporary infiltration basin (Basin D). Gonzales may only discharge
to the basin when all three infiltration basins are full and
Gonzales cannot conduct its regular maintenance (tractor
ripping) in the three basins . The temporary basin has a 5-
acre footprint and is located on Gonzales’ property where
the future industrial wastewater treatment will be
constructed.
Gonzales Wastewater Treatment Plant
Attachment 1 - 3 - August 1, 202 5
Treated effluent may also be disposed from Basin A to the
temporary emergency controlled flood field 1 which is
directly east of the current WWTP and field 2 which is to
the east of basin D . These fields result in a combined total
of 8 acres on city- owned property . This discharge is only to
occur with Central Coast Water Board staff approval for
specific calendar dates.
Gonzales must monitor and report on disposal to the
infiltration basins and emergency controlled flood disposal
fields in compliance with Monitoring and Reporting
Program R3 -2025- 0056 Section V .
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling Gonzales will periodically hire a third party to dredge and
dispose of accumulated sludge and debris in the treatment
ponds .
 A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3, which were reported in Gonzales ' quarterly monitoring reports. The Central Coast
Water Board used reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

