wastewater treatment and disposal
systems for Badger Hill residents at the crown of Badger Hill east of Exeter. Badger Hill rises from
the valley floor at about elevation 480 feet above mean sea level with the crest at elevation 1,150
feet above mean sea level. The surface water drainage is to Y okohl Creek.
Gill Brothers Feed Yard, Inc:, planned to develop 1,773 acres into one-acre residential lots at the
crown of Badger Hill. However, the development has been limited to 133 one-acre lots on the crest
of the hill because sewage disposal investigations indicated that the hillsides are composed of low
permeability soils. The remaining undeveloped area of 1,640 acres is in permanent open space used
as grazing land under common ownership of the lot owners. About 60 homes have been built and
occupied.
Domestic wastewater is initially treated by individual septic tanks. Effluent is primarily conveyed to
a leachfield on each lot. Some leachlines are on Badger Hill Association property because
conditions on the lots will not provide adequate disposal. The leachlines are about 70 feet long, 5
feet wide, and 5 feet beneath the ground surface. Each leachfield has five leachlines and a discharge
capacity of 1,200 gallons per day (gpd).
Each family discharges an average of 550 gpd of wastewater. The current total discharge is about
33,000 gpd. .
Maintenance of individual waste systems is provided by the property owners association, as specified
in the conditions of approval of the subdivision by the Tulare County Board of Supervisors. Badger
Hill Association is a California nonprofit mutual benefit corporation with power and authority to
contract and pay for, or otherwise provide for the maintenance, restoration and repair of individual
sewage disposal systems.
Y okohl Creek is an east side stream, as identified in the Basin Plan. Designated beneficial uses of
east side streams include municipal and agricultural supply; water contact recreation; non-contact
water recreation; warm fresh water habitat; cold fresh water habitat; wildlife habitat; fresh water
replenishment; and ground water recharge.
The beneficial uses of local ground water are domestic, industrial, and agricultural supply.
A ground water report submitted by the developer (Gill Brothers Feed Yard, Inc.) states that Badger
Hill consists of metamorphic rock which is essentially non-waterbearing. Water supply is ground
water from Badger Hill Mutual Water Company and is of good quality with electrical conductivity of
480 µmhos/cm.
INFORMATION SHEET -Continued
BADGER HILL ASSOCIATION
SEPTIC TANK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
TULARE COUNTY -2-
Soils in the leachfield area consist of sandy silt and silt with some rocks. Percolation tests
performed at the crest the hill indicate an average percolation rate of 7 .5 minutes per inch. The soils
report submitted by the developer indicates that several lots may have insufficient depth of soils for
leaching systems. Those lots require engineer designed disposal systems to meet the "Minimum
Criteria for Septic Tank and Leaching Systems" described in Basin Plan. The disposal facilities'
design, location, and size are regulated by Tulare County.
The action to update waste discharge requirements for this facility is exempt from the provisions of
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in accordance with Title 14, California Code of
Regulations (CCR), Section 15301.