FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
614 East 5th Street in the City of Benic a, Solano County . It provides secondary
treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the City of
Benicia and serves a population of approximately 28,200. No significant
industrial users are located within the service area.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Sanitary Sewer System . The City of Benicia sanitary sewer system conveys
wastewater to the plant and is covered by this Order. The system consists of
23 lift stations and 153 miles of pipelines , including 148 miles of gravity main
and 5 miles of force main .
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . Wastewater treatment consists of screening, grinding,
grit removal, primary clarification, biological secondary treatment, disinfection ,
and dechlorination. The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 4.5 MGD
and a wet weather capacity of 1 1 MGD. From February 2020 through January
2024, the plant treated an average of 1.9 MGD and a maximum of 9.4 MGD.

Biological s econdary treatment consists of aeration basins and secondary
clarifiers in two parallel treatment trains with a combined capacity of 8.0 MGD.
Primary -treated wastewater over 8 .0 MGD is directed to one rotating biological
contactor followed by secondary clarifiers , or to flow equalization . The rotating
biological contactor train can treat about 3.0 MGD. All secondary -treated
effluent is combined in the chlorine mixing chamber and disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge.

During peak flows or upsets, the plant can store up to one million gallons of
influent, primary effluent, or final effluent in seven flow equalization and storage
basins, called multi -purpose storage basins, for later treatment. The basins
(previously used for two decommissioned rotating biological contactor trains )
provide an additional 0.46 million gallons of flow equalization capacity. A wrap -
around pipeline allows the plant t o pump effluent from the final effluent pump
station to the holding basins. When necessary, t his allows the Discharger to
reroute effluent that may violate permit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
There are no significant planned changes to the wastewater treatment plant .
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The Discharger projected that under a high end -of-century scenario of five feet of
sea level rise, the southern portion of the plant would be inundated . The
Discharger’s 2016 Climate Change Adaption Plan ca lls for a series of actions to
protect the plant from sea level rise , including the following: (1) ongoing monitoring
of changes in sea level rise and associated flooding conditions; (2) determin ation
of the best strategy to protect the plant from temporary or permanent inundation,
including costs, feasibility of construction, and appropriate ness for community
character; and (3) construction of improved flood protection measures, monitor ing
of effectiveness, and expan sion or alteration of flood protection measures as
needed or as conditions change.
3.