FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The Plant is located at 1103 Airport Boulevard in
the City of Burlingame. It provides secondary treatment of domestic and
commercial wastewater for the City of Burlingame, Town of Hillsborough, and
the Burlingame Hills Sewer Maintenance Distri ct. The service area population is
approximately 37,000 (30,300 in the City of Burlingame; 5,300 in the Town of
Hillsborough; and 1,250 in the Burlingame Hills area). No significant industrial
users are located within the service area. During the dry seaso n, more than 80
percent of the influent comes from the City of Burlingame (as estimated based
on population served and average dry weather flow of 3 MGD). The Town of
Hillsborough, on average, contributes approximately 0.4 MGD, representing
about 14 percen t of the average dry weather flow. The Burlingame Hills area
contributes approximately 0.09 MGD, representing about 3 percent of the
average dry weather flow. Attachment B shows a map of the area around the
Plant.
2.1.2 Collection System . The City of Burli ngame owns the wastewater collection
system located within its city limits. It consists of approximately 8,500
connections and 118 miles of pipeline (81 miles of sanitary sewer lines, 6 miles
of forcemain, and 31 miles of lower laterals), with 7 pump stati ons. The Plant
also receives wastewater from two satellite collection system agencies —the
Town of Hillsborough and the Burlingame Hills Sewer Maintenance District. The
Town of Hillsborough has approximately 1,800 connections and 43 miles of
pipeline within the Plant’s service area (its remaining connections and pipeline
are in the City of San Mateo wastewater treatment plant’s service area ). The
Burlingame Hills Sewer Maintenance District has approximately 440
connections and 6 miles of pipeline within the Plant’s service area. The City of
Burlingame has agreements with the satellite collection system agencies
requiring the satellite collection system agencies to properly maintain th eir
systems as a condition of using the Plant.
City of Burlingame and NBSU Order R2-2023 -0010
City of Burlingame Wastewater Treatment Facility NPDES Permit CA00 37788
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-62.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . As shown in the process flow diagram in
Attachment C, the wastewater treatment process at the Plant consists of
screening (two bar screens), grit removal (vortex -type grit remover), primary
sedimentation (two primary clarifiers ), biological treatment (four aeration
basins), secondary clarification (four secondary clarifiers), and chlorine
disinfection using sodium hypochlorite. Treated wastewater is sent to the NBSU
forcemain, which transports treated wastewater to the South San Francisco and
San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant for dechlorination using sodium bisulfite
prior to discharge to Lower San Francisco Bay from Discharge Point 002. The
Plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up to 5.5 million gallons per
day (M GD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 16 MGD. From August 2018
through February 2023 , the Plant treated a daily average flow of 2.6 MGD.
During wet weather, primary effluent flows in excess of 13.5 MGD (maximum
biological treatment capacity) are directed to onsite temporary storage units,
which include an offline primary clarifier (0.4 million gallons [MG]), a stormwater
retention basin (1.6 MG), and an offline aeration basin (0.3 MG). When the
storage units reach their maximum capacity, primary effluent flows in excess of
13.5 MGD bypass biological treatment and are blended with effluent receiving
biological treatment. The blended effluent is disinfected and discharged to the
NBSU forcemain. Prior to the installation of the stormwater retention basin in
September 2011, the Discharger blended nine times from 2005 through 2011.
During the 12 years s ince installation of the stormwater retention basin , the
Discharger has only blended once (December 31, 2022 ), due to an unusually
intense rainstorm. This Order d oes not preapprove wet weather bypasses of
biological treatment . They are subject to Attachment D section 1.7.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with a gravity thickener and waste activated sludge with a gravity belt thickener.
All thickened sludge is then treated by anaerobic digestion and dewatered by a
belt filter press or centrifuge. Dewatered sludge is trucked to either composting
sites, land application sites, or landfills for disposal.
2.1.5. Stormw ater Management . Most stormwater captured within the Plant’s storm
drain system is directed to the headworks. For the three storm drains onsite that
do not drain to the headworks, the Discharger is covered under the State Water
Board’s statewide NPDES perm it for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) .
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities . The City of Burlingame has investigated the
feasibility of recycling some of its waste water, but it does not currently have any
plans to do so .
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . The Discharger plans to replace one of i ts anaerobic digestors
and its digested sludge holding tank by 2026. This change is mentioned here for
informational purposes only and is not a requirement of this Order, except to the
extent that it pertain s to ensuring Facility reliabil ity. Its inclusion here does not
imply Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain
necessary permits or permit modifications to implement the change .
2.6. Sea Level Rise. In its response to a sea level rise questionnaire the Regional
Water Board sent on April 14, 2021, the Discharger noted that , under the medium
risk aversion scenario of 7.5 feet of sea level rise by 2100 , the facility would not be
affected. The treatment plant is not projected to have any issues with groundwater
rise either . To address sea level rise and flood hazards on a regional basis, the
Discharger work s with the OneShoreline Project .
3.