Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Sanitary Sewer System . For purposes of this Order, the sanitary sewer system
is the portion of the wastewater collection system owned and operated by t he
City of Palo Alto . The City of Palo Alto’s sanitary sewer system consists of
approximately 200 miles of pipes ranging from 4 inches to 72 inches in diameter
and one small lift station. Satellite systems owned and operated by the East
Palo Alto Sanitary District, Stanford University, and the cities of Mountain View,
Los Altos, and Los Altos convey wastewater into the City of Pa lo Alto sanitary
sewer system. Each satellite collection system is separately responsible for an
ongoing program of maintenance and capital improvements for sewer lines and
pump stations within its respective jurisdiction to ensure adequate capacity and
reliability. The responsibilities include managing overflows, controlling inflow
and infiltration, and implementing collection system maintenance .
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The treatment process consists of preliminary
screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, biological treatment (fixed film
reactors and activated sludge basins ), secondary clarification, dual-media
filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The hydraulic capacity of all treatment
units is 80 MGD, except for the fixed film reactors and dual media filters, which
each have a capacity of 40 MGD. The plant’s design flow is 39 MGD,
determined by the process capacity of the fixed film reactors and the dual
media filters. From June 2019 through February 2024 , the plant’s annua l
average daily flow was 18.7 MGD, and the maximum daily flow was 51.7 MGD .
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Solids from primary sedimentation tanks
and aeration tanks are sent to the sludge thickening facilities, gravity -thickened,
and dewatered by belt presses. Dewatered sludge is shipped offsite for
treatment to Class A pathogen reduction standards and subsequently land -
applied . Belt press filtrate is returned to the plant headworks .
City of Palo Alto Order R2-2025-0003
City of Palo Alto Water Quality Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 834
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-52.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater collected on the treatment plant
property is directed to the headworks. Therefore, no additional stormwater
requirements are necessary .
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. Approximately 695 acre -feet per year or 0.62 MGD
of final effluent undergoes additional filtration and chlorination prior to
distribution as tertiary unrestricted recycled water. The Discharger sends this
water to the Palo Alto Golf Course, Palo Alto parks , the California Department
of Transportation, and the City of Mountain View recycled water system. The
water is also distributed by truck for landscape irrigation, dust control, soil
compaction, and collection system clea ning. These reclamation activities are
regulated under Regional Water Board Order No. 93 -160.
The Discharger ’s planned Advanced Water Purification System w ould improve
recycled water quality by adding additional membrane filtration and reverse
osmosis for up to 1.125 MGD of the recycled water flow , with the potential to
expand to up to 2.25 MGD . Up to 0.2 MGD of reverse osmosis concentrate
would be blended with advanced -secondary effluent prior to discharge .
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the term of this Order, the Discharger plans to complete several plant
improvements These include:
2.5.1 . An Advanced Water Purification System to improve recycled water quality using
microfiltration followed by reverse osmosis to reduce the level of total dissolved
solids.
2.5.2. Upgrades to the biological treatment process to enhance total inorganic
nitrogen removal. The project w ould remove the fixed film reactors from the
treatment train and add nitrogen removal and membrane aerated biofilm reactor
process units to the existing aeration basins to improve and intensify the
treatment process.
2.5.3. A new parallel outfall line that w ould discharge next to the current outfall line at
the same discharge location a s Discharge Point 001 (the unnamed channel) .
This project would increase the treatment plant’s discharge capacity to
compensate for head losses caused by sea level rise, high tides , and extreme
wet-weather events. The increased discharge capacity would remain below the
current permitted flow capacity.
2.5.4. A Horizontal Levee Pilot Project would consist of construct ing a berm and
horizontal levee along a portion of existing upland habitat adjacent to Harbor
Marsh. The horizontal levee would be planted with various native plants to
restore diverse transitional habitats , including freshwater marsh, wet meadow,
and riparian scrub , and would provide wave attenuation , sea level rise
adaptation space , and refugia habitat for key species , such as the salt marsh
harvest mouse. The project w ould include install ing an underground pipeline to
transport treated wastewater to the hor izontal levee for irrigation of the native
plants. The Discharger plans to conduct monitoring and create community
science opportunities to ensure that data will be available for use in the larger
flood control levee projects for Palo Alto as well as regionally .
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The City of Palo Alto completed a Sea Level Rise Vulnerability Assessment in
2022 that identified several vulnerabilities related to sea level rise and rising
groundwater. The Discharger determined that its treatment plant is within the
FEMA 100 -year flood plain and not currently protected by a FEMA -accredited
levee. The Discharger is partnering with the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, Valley
Water, and other regional stakeholders on a South San Francisco Bay Shoreline
Phase II Feasibility Study to address levee protection around Palo Alto.
To limit flooding, t he Discharger has contingency procedures that include
restricting sanitary sewer system flows and u sing surplus tanks for emergency
storage capacity. Local flood control channels and pump stations have been
City of Palo Alto Order R2-2025-0003
City of Palo Alto Water Quality Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 834
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-9upgraded to minimize stormwater inflow into the sanitary sewer system. In
addition, the Discharger plans to increase the height of existing levee s to provide
greater flood protection for the treatment plant . Finally , with the Discharger’s
rehabilitation projects , it plans to raise some new equipment at risk from flooding
to a higher elevation and install flood doors for any remaining equipment at risk
from flooding.
3.