FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System  and Treatment
2.1.1.  Location and Service Are a. The Facility is located at 700 Los Esteros Road, 
San Jose, and provides advanced -secondary treatment of wastewater from 
domestic, commercial, and industrial sources. Ownership of the Facility by the 
City of San Jose and City of Santa Clara was established under the original 
Joint Powers Agreement. Through a series of additional “Master Agreements 
for Wastewater Treatment,” five additional satellite collection systems obtained 
rights to a share of the treatment capacity to treat their sewage: the City of 
Milpitas, Burbank Sanitation District, Cupertino Sanitation District, West Valley 
Sanitation District, and Santa Clara County Sanitation Districts No.  2 and No. 3. 
(A sixth satellite collection system, Sunol Sanitation District, was annexed by 
the City of San Jose in 2010 and no longer exists.) The Facility serves a 
population of approximately 1.4 million.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Sanitary Sewer System s. The City of San Jose and the City of Santa Clara 
individually own and operate their respective sanitary sewer collection systems. 
The City of San Jose sanitary sewer system consists of approximately 
2,042  miles of sewer pipes, including 10 miles of force main and 16 pump 
stations. The collected wastewater is conveyed to the treatment plant  by 
interceptor pipelines located in northern San Jose.
The City of Santa Clara sanitary sewer system consists of approximately 
270 miles of sewer mains and two large pump stations, each with a flow meter 
and four smaller un -metered lift stations. The system includes two force mains 
(totaling 4 miles), 26 siphons, and an additional main line meter station to 
measure flow at the Guadalu pe outfall to the conveyance pipe to the treatment 
plant .
The Facility also serves five additional satellite collection systems as described  
above. Satellite collection systems are not part of the Facility subject to this 
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-5Order. Each satellite collection system is owned, operated, and maintained 
independently and is responsible for ongoing maintenance and capital 
improvements to ensure adequate capacity and reliability.
2.1.3.  Wastewater Treatment . The treatment p lant provides treatment consisting of 
influent screening and grit removal , primary clarification , advanced secondary 
treatment with an activated sludge process configured and operated for 
biological nutrient removal (BNR) , secondary clarifiers , mono -media gravity 
filtration , and disinfection with chlorine (sodium hypochlorite), and 
dechlorination (sodium bisulfite).
Treated effluent is discharged to Artesian Slough, a tributary of Coyote Creek. 
The Facility has an average dry weather design capacity of 167 million gallons 
per day (MGD). Annual average effluent flows in 2022 and 2023 were 
approximately 71 MGD and 93 MGD, with daily maximum flows of 
approximately 120 MGD and 177 MGD.  A 12-million -gallon, concrete -lined 
emergency basin is available for temporary storage prior to the plant 
headworks, along with an additional 16 million gallons of storage used for daily 
flow equalization  after the primary clarifiers.
A 10-million -gallon overflow basin is also available for any overflows from the 
16-million -gallon equalization basin. The treatment p lant is designed to route 
fully treated secondary effluent in excess of the filtration design capacity around 
the filters (250 MGD) during extreme wet weather flow events and to recombine 
it with filter effluent prior to disinfection.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
2.1.3.1.  Preliminary Treatment.  Preliminary treatment consists of screens followed 
by grit removal. An iron salts dosing station doses ferric chloride at the 
Emergency Basin Overflow Structure for odor control.
2.1.3.2.  Primary Treatment.  Following preliminary treatment, wastewater is pumped 
into rectangular primary clarifiers to remove floatable and settleable material.
2.1.3.3.  Biological Treatment.  All wastewater receives biological treatment  as part 
of the advanced secondary treatment process . A modified biological nutrient 
removal (BNR) process is employed that is designed to remove BOD and 
ammonia (NH 3) in the same aeration basins. Each basin is divided into four 
sections referred to as “quads.” The first and third quads are operated under 
anoxic conditions, while the second and fourth quads are operated under 
aerobic /anaerobic  conditions. This configuration achieves effective filament 
control and partial denitrification.  Following biological treatment, the 
wastewater flows by gravity  to secondary clarifiers.
2.1.3.4.  Filtration Process.  Following the secondary clarifiers , the wastewater 
undergoes filtration. There are 16 separate mono media filters, 4 of which are 
dedicated to producing Title 22 unrestricted -use non-potable recycled  water 
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-6and 12 of which produce water suitable for discharge to San Francisco Bay. 
Up to 8 of the 16 filters can be used to produce Title 22 unrestricted -use non-
potable recycled  water. The Discharger backwash es the filters to clean the 
media . Each filter is backwashed approximately once every 24 hours . Filter 
backwash water is sent to a backwash equalization basin for storage, 
followed by flocculation and sedimentation. The treated backwash water is 
pumped to chlorine contact tanks for disinfection prior to discharge to San 
Francisco Bay. The settled s olids from the backwash water are pumped back 
to primary treatment.
2.1.3.5.  Disinfection.  Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are metered into the filter 
effluent at the head of four serpentine chlorine contact channels to produce a 
solution of chloramines for disinfection. As the effluent leaves the contact 
channels , its chlorine residual is measured, and an appropriate amount of 
sodium bisulfite is added to neutralize the hypochlorite. The portion of the 
effluent diverted for recycled water use is not neutralized with sodium 
bisulfite.
2.1.3.6.  Outfall Channel.  Following dechlorination, the fully treated effluent flows by 
gravity under Los Esteros Road and daylights through two effluent discharge 
pipes into an approximately half mile long effluent channel. The channel 
provides additional stabilization of the treated effluent, backup aeration if low 
dissolved oxygen levels are detected, and a backup dechlorination system in 
case upstream meters indicate there is remaining residual  chlorine. The final 
effluent flows over a weir at the downs tream end of the outfall channel where 
final measurements for chlorine, pH, and dissolved oxygen are taken before  
discharge  to Artesian Slough, Coyote Creek, and South San Francisco Bay .
2.1.4.  Sludge and Biosolids Management . Sludge from primary and secondary 
clarification operations is processed using  Temperature Phased Anaerobic 
Digestion (TPAD) with  thermophilic and mesophilic anaerobic digesters that are 
operated in series. The process consists of primary sludge screening, dissolved 
air flotation (DAF) thickening of primary and secondary sludges, and TPAD . 
Digested sludge then undergoes either lagoon stabilization and dewatering 
using open air drying beds or mechanical dewatering using centrifuges (once 
the new biosolids dewatering facility is complete). Dewatered biosolids are used 
as alternative daily cove r at a landfill, land applied as a soil amendment, or 
processed further into a compost or fertilizer.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater from within the treatment p lant’s 
boundaries is directed to the plant headworks; therefore, permit coverage for 
stormwater discharges  is not required .
2.1.6.  Recycled Water.  The Discharger provides a dry -season average of 
approximately 1 6 MGD of treated wastewater for non -potable  reuse in San 
Jose, Santa Clara, and Milpitas through  the South Bay Water Recycling 
Program. Uses include irrigation of golf courses, parks and playgrounds, farms, 
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-7and industrial use. Recycled water is also available for construction use at 
designated access points equipped for truck filling at remote locations. 
Approximately 0.10 MGD of treated wastewater is used onsite for landscape 
irrigation.
Regional Water Board Order R2 -1995 -0117 sets forth water recycling 
requirements for the South Bay Water Recycling Program . In 2025, the 
Regional Water Board plans to transition coverage to State Water Board Order 
WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW . A portion of the recycled water delivered by the South 
Bay Water Recycling Program is produced directly from the tertiary filters and 
chlorine contact tanks, and a portion is produced by the Silicon Valley 
Advanced Water Purification Center, which is jointly owned by the City of S an 
Jose and Santa Clara Valley Water District ( Valley Water ). Valley Water  
operate s the Silicon Valley Advanced Water Purification Center .
In 2011, the City of San Jose, in collaboration with Valley Water, began 
construction of the Silicon Valley Advanced Water Purification Center , which 
has been operational since March 2015. When operating at full capacity, it is 
capable of treating up to 10 MGD of the Facility’s secondary effluent using 
microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and ultraviolent light disinfection, producing 
approximately 8 MGD of high -quality recycled water. The backwash waste 
stream from the microfil tration process is routed back t o the plant  headworks. 
The reject waste stream from the reverse osmosis units is routed back to the 
disinfection units, where it is blended with the treatment plant ’s effluent prior to 
discharge .
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
The Facility discharges to Artesian Slough via a discharge channel, where it mixes 
with Coyote Creek and then South San Francisco Bay, all of which are waters of 
the United States. The discharge appears to enhance beneficial uses of the 
receiving waters as documented in the “Environmental Monitoring” sections of the 
San Jose -Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility Annu al Self -Monitoring 
Reports from 2020 -2024. The momentum of the water flowing through Artesian 
Slough and Coyote Creek, and the high level of  dissolved oxygen in the water, 
enhances the estuarine habitat, preservation of rare and endangered species, and 
wildlife habitat beneficial uses. The freshwater outfall channel also provides habitat 
for migrating waterfowl .
2.3. Previous  Requirements and Monitoring  Data
The table below presents the previous order’s effluent limitations and 
representative monitoring data from April 2020 through December  2024:
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-8Table F -2. Previous  Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data
Parameter UnitAverage 
Monthly 
LimitationMaximum 
Daily 
LimitationOther 
LimitationLong -Term 
AverageHighest 
Daily  
Value
Carbonaceous 
Biochemical 
Oxygen Demand 
(5 day @ 20°C)mg/L 10 20 - 3.2 8.5
CBOD 5 percent 
removal%85 
(minimum)- - 98.8 98.1 [1]
Total Suspended 
Solidsmg/L 10 20 - 1.1 4.0
TSS percent 
removal%85 
(minimum)- - 99.6 99.3 [1]
Oil and Grease mg/L 5 10 - ND 1.5
pH s.u. - - 6.5 – 8.5 [2]- 7.1 – 7.7 [3]
Turbidity NTU - - 10 [4]0.85 3.2
Chlorine, Total 
Residualmg/L - - 0.0 [4] [5]0 0
Enterococcus  
BacteriaMPN/  
100 mL110 [6]- 30 [6]4.5 [7]88
Ammonia, Total mg/L 3.0 8.0 - 0.5 1.4
Copper, Total 
Recoverableµg/L 11 16 - 2.2 4.6
Nickel, Total 
Recoverableµg/L 25 33 - 4.5 6.4
Cyanide, Total µg/L 5.7 11 - 1.8 6.2
Dioxin TEQ µg/L 1.4 x 10-82.8 x 10-8- <8.0 x 10-7<8.0 x 10-7
Acute Toxicity% 
Survival- -Not less 
than 90% 
(3-sample 
median) 99.5 95 [8]
Acute Toxicity% 
Survival- -Not less 
than 70%98.5 92.5 [8]
Footnotes:
[1] This value is the lowest percent removal value on a monthly basis.
[2] The limitation was expressed as an instantaneous minimum and instantaneous maximum.
[3] The range is the lowest and highest pH values.
[4] The limitation was expressed as an instantaneous maximum.
[5] Order R2 -2023 -0023 amended the previous order and replaced the instantaneous maximum effluent limit with a one -hour average 
effluent limit. This change was effective January 1, 2024.
[6] The enterococci limits are expressed as a monthly 10 percentile (110  CFU/100  mL) and six -week geometric mean (30  CFU/100 mL ), 
calculated weekly.
[7] This value is the geometric mean of all samples from April 2020  through December  2024.
[8] This value is the lowest percent survival.
2.4. Compliance Summary
2.4.1.  Treatment Plant . The Discharger did not violate any effluent limitations during 
the previous order term .
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-92.4.2.  Sanitary Sewer  System.  The table below summarizes the Discharger’s 
Category 1 sanitary sewer spill rates for the last five years. Category 1 spill 
rates are those that reach waters of the United States.
Table F -3. Sanitary Sewer System and Category 1 Sanitary Sewer Spill Rates
(Values based on CIWQS data analysis completed in  February  2025) [1]
Length 
(miles)Average Pipe 
Age (years)  [4] 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
City of San Jose 2038 [2]51 0.59 0.39 0.59 0.44 0.34
City of Santa Clara 272 [3]59 0 0.37 0 0.37 0
San Francisco Bay 
Region17,700 [2]49 1.2 0.68 1.5 1.0 0.86
State of California 106,000 [2]48 0.56 0.35 0.50 0.45 0.36
Footnotes:
[1] The State Water Board’s Enrollee’s  Guide to the SSO Database defines “Total number of SSOs per 100 miles of Sewer” as 
“…the number of sanitary sewer spills, for which the reporting enrollee is responsible, for every 100 miles of pipe or sewer lines 
in an enrollee’s sanitary sewer system. D ue to the large variation in facility specific characteristics, this metric should only be 
viewed as a rough comparison of the operation and maintenance performance of enrollees and their sanitary sewer systems .”
[2] Lengths shown are based on 2024 data.
[3] Length shown is based on 2023 data.
[4] The average pipe ages are estimated based on the percentage of piping constructed during each decade as reported by 
enrollees under the statewide WDRs for sanitary sewer systems. Ages shown are based on 2024 data .
The Discharger ’s Category 1 sanitary sewer spill rates are lower than the  San 
Francisco Bay Region ’s rates.
During the previous order term, the Discharger rehabilitated sewer pipes and 
manholes , and conducted inspections and spot cleaning. The Discharger also 
conducted outreach activities to educate residents on fats, oils, and grease  
disposal .
2.5.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects during this permit term. 
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not 
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring 
Facility reliabilit y. 
2.5.1 . Digester Upgrade . This project will renew the mesophilic digester tanks  and 
the mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation and control equipment 
associated with them, as well as replacing the existing floating covers with fixed 
covers. In addition to the mesophilic digester upgrades, the project will 
construct a new fats, oil and grease receiving facility, including storage tanks 
and connections to existing facilities.
2.5.2.  Digested Sludge Dewatering Facility.  This project will build a new digested 
sludge dewatering facility, including a new building, centrifuges, conveyors, 
truck bays, and polymer storage and dosing equipment is underway. Ancillary 
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-10facilities include digested sludge pump stations and pipelines from digesters to 
a storage tank, digested sludge pump station and pipeline from the storage tank 
to the dewatering building, and a centrate return pump station and pipeline. The 
Sludge Dewatering Facility will eventually replace the lagoon and solar drying 
biosolids processing.
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The treatment plant  is located within the 100 -year coastal floodplain with a Base 
Flood Elevation of 12 -ft NAVD88 surrounding the main facilities and 11 -ft NAVD88 
within the treatment facilities located within the boundary of Los Esteros Road and 
Zanker Road.
The Discharger developed a model t o assess the vulnerability of various areas 
and treatment sections of the Facility to flood risk s under a variety of scenarios, 
including storms greater than 100 -year return interval  storms . Based on this 
analysis, areas of the Facility vulnerable to flooding were assigned a deficiency 
priority rating of low, medium, or high, with initial recommended improvements and 
associated planning -level cost estimates .
As part of a Design Criteria and Sizing Basis study, the Discharger  evaluated flow 
and load future projections. These studies were completed in 2014 and included 
development of , and hydraulic model ing specific to , the treatment plant . The 
hydraulic model is adaptable to shifting current and future scenarios so  it can be 
used when conditions  deviate (or are anticipated to deviate) from previous 
assumptions. Using the model, the Discharger  conducted a flow management 
study (completed in 2017)  that updated assumptions about flow management. 
Using updated information on flow trends, population trends, and projections on 
water use and conservation, the Flow Management Study revised the average 
influent flow projections and peak wet weather flow projections downward 
compared  to those presented in its Plant Master Plan and the 2014 Design Criteria 
and Sizing Basis study. The existence of a well -calibrated, facility -specific 
hydraulic model facilitates flexible and adaptable planning as the actual water 
supply deviates from previous projections. The Discharger  revisits flow 
management assumptions at approximately 5 -year intervals. In 2024, the 
Discharger  initiated a Plant Master Plan Technical Update to update the 
projections and assumptions in the original Plant Master Plan, the 2014 Design 
Criteria and Sizing study, and projected sea level rise assumptions. The Technical 
update is scheduled to be completed in 2025.
In addition, South Bay Shoreline Levee Project Phase 1 will protect the eastern 
portion of the Lower South Bay Alviso Complex, which includes the treatment 
plant . Construction began in 2021 and was slated to be completed in 2025. While 
significant portions of the levee to the west of the treatment plant  have been 
completed, the full completion of Phase 1 has been delayed due to project cost 
escalation. The escalated cost has resulted in a redesign of levee alignment for 
the portions of the levee that will p rotect the treatment plant  to the north and east ,
City of San Jos é and City of Santa Clara  Order R2 -2025-0027
San Jos é-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 842
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET  F-11and will tie into existing flood protection levees along Coyote Creek. The 
Discharger is  coordinat ing with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), 
California Coastal Commission (CCC), and Valley Water on levee alignment and 
construction. When complete, Phase 1 of the shoreline levee will extend the levee 
along the north and west sides of the biosolid lagoon areas. 
An updated modeling study, using Valley Water’s HEC -RAS model was completed 
in 2024. The study evaluated the risk of treatment plant flooding from riverine 
overflow from a 500 -year storm. The model indicated no riverine flooding from a 
500-year storm in Coyote Creek so previously identified projects to protect the 
plant  from riverine flooding will no longer be pursued.
The Discharger  also initiated a Final Effluent Discharge Evaluation Scenario study 
in 2019 to determine the best option for discharging final effluent to San Francisco 
Bay in response to both rising sea level and the eventual construction of a flood 
control levee. The s tudy was completed in 2020 and recommendations were 
based on the initial design of the levee, which was to cross Artesian Slough with a 
closure structure located downstream of the final discharge point (north of the 
weir). This closure struct ure would require the ability  to discharge over, under, or 
through the levee. While the study identified a configuration to accomplish 
discharge and recommended a two -phase project, the shoreline levee has since 
been redesigned with a new alignment as described above. This change in t he 
shoreline levee project has resulted in the recommended projects from th is study 
to be deferred indefinitely. The Discharger continues to work with Valley Water, 
USACE, and CCC to finalize levee alignment and design and what , if any, 
additional studies or projects the Facility may have to pursue as a result.
3.