A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Secondary treatment at the Facility is accomplished with screening and aerated grit removal,
primary sedimentation using clarifiers, flow equalization, and activated sludge treatment
followed by secondary clarification. Secondary -treated effluent is either discharged to the
Pacific Ocean through the San Elijo Ocean Outfall (SEOO) , or receives tertiary treatment for
reuse applications in the San Dieguito Water District (SDWD), Santa Fe Irrigation District
(SFID), Olivenhain Municipal Water District (OMWD), and City of Del Mar.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit rem oval are collected onsite and trucked
to a local landfill. Sludge treatment consists of dissolved air flotation thickening, anaerobic

SAN ELIJO JOINT POWERS AUTHORITY ORDER R9-2018- 0003
SAN ELIJO WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0107999


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 digestion, and dewatering by a belt -filter press. Dewatered sludge is trucked to Yuma, Arizona
where it is land applied.
The 3.02 -MGD tertiary treatment portion of the Facility (the Advanced Water Purification
Facility, AWPF) is designed to comply with the State Water Board Division of Drinking Water
(DDW) criteria for “disinfected tertiary recycled water”. The AWPF consists of two parallel
treatment trains. Train No. 1 provides coagulation, flocculation, and granular media filtration.
Train No. 2 provides both microfiltration (MF) and reverse osmosis (RO). The San Diego
Water Board issued written notice to the Discharger on March 15, 2013 authorizing the
initiation of discharge operations from the MF and RO facility. Spent washwater from the MF
units is stored in a sump and directed to the Facility primary clarifiers for treatment. RO
treatment is provided by units featuring thin film composite (TFC) membranes that achieve
approximately a 75 percent recovery rate. In its ROWD, the Discharger indicated that one- half
of the RO production capacity addressed within Order No. R 9-2000- 10 has been installed,
and existing onsite RO facilities can handle an influent flow of approximately 0.7 MGD and
produce approximately 0.5 MGD of product water. RO reject (brine) is commingled with
Facility secondary -treated effluent as return flow and discharged to the SEOO. RO product
water is combined with product water from Train No. 1 and the combined flow is disinfected
using sodium hypochlorite. The system is also capable of providing MF water from Train No.
2 to the disinfection system when Train No. 1 is offline for maintenance. Disinfected ter tiary
recycled water from the AWPF is purveyed by the Discharger to the SDWD , SFID , OMWD ,
and City of Del Mar. The discharge of tertiary -treated effluent for reuse application is covered
under the San Diego Water Board Order No. 2000- 10 and Addendum No. 1 to Order No.
2000- 10.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In the near future, recycled water demands may exceed Facility influent flows during peak
demand months. To meet the projected recycled water demands, the Discharger has
implemented two surface water diversion projects within the City of Solana Beach and the
City of Encinitas, as discussed in section II of this Fact Sheet. The Discharger will continue to
coordinate with the cities of Solana Beach and Encinitas and other local stormwater agencies
to explore and (if feasible) implement additional surface water diversion projects that are
consistent with protec ting the environment, will maximize recycled water production from the
Discharger’s existing treatment facilities, and will meet the Discharger’s commitment to
increasing recycled water production. However, as the City of Encinitas and other agencies in
the Carlsbad watershed plan on reducing non- storm water discharges to MS4s (as discussed
further in section III.E.4 of this Fact Sheet), the amount of surface water available for recycled
water production may decrease in the future.
The Discharger has also been working with the City of Del Mar to increase flows to the
Facility headworks. The City of Del Mar is a participating agency within the San Diego
Metropolitan Sewerage System (Metro System), and currently directs approximately 0.7 MGD
of wastewater to t he Metro System for treatment at the E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater
Treatment Plant. In 2014, the Discharger and City of Del Mar entered into a 30- year
agreement to transfer approximately 0. 6 MGD of the City of Del Mar wastewater to the Facility
for treat ment and reuse. The City of Del Mar would retain its Metro System connection to treat
a portion of its wastewater flows. As part of the agreement, the City of Del Mar has
construct ed a pipeline and conveyance facilities to connect with the City of Solana B each
sanitary sewer system, which flows to the Facility. The schedule for implementing the
agreement has not been set yet, but is projected to be completed with in the next five years.
Another option the Discharger has to increase recycled water production is to divert City of
Escondido secondary effluent from the Escondido Land Outfall, just prior to the SEOO, into
the Facility for tertiary treatment and reuse.
The Discharger is also working with the City of Encinitas to consider redirecting flow from the
Encinitas Sanitation District that currently flows through Moonlight Beach Pump Station to the
Encina Water Pollution Control Facility (EWPCF)3. The City of Encinitas owns capacity at
both the Facility and EWPCF. Redirecting this flow would require a new pipeline from
Moonlight Beach Pump Station and this work may begin within the next five years.


3 Discharges from EWPCF are regulated by separate WDRs, Order No. R9- 2011- 0019, NPDES No. CA0107395,
Waste Discharge Requirements for t he Encina Wastewater Authority Encina Water Pollution Control Facility
and Satellite Wastewater Treatment Plants Discharge to the Pacific Ocean via the Encina Ocean Outfall .

SAN ELIJO JOINT POWERS AUTHORITY ORDER R9-2018- 0003
SAN ELIJO WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0107999


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8 III.