existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the CEQA, in accordance with Title 14 CCR, Section 15301.
66. Pursuant to CWC Section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and adoption of
this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Title 27 Exemption
67. State regulations that prescribe procedures for detecting and characterizing the impact of
waste constituents from waste management units on groundwater are found in Title 27
CCR Section 20380. Title 27 conditionally exempts certain activities from its provisions.
To qualify for an exemption, the activity must meet, and continue to meet, specified
preconditions. Title 27 contains several conditional exemptions that are relevant to the
discharge. These include exemptions for domestic sewage, wastewater and reuse.
Title 27, at section 20090, exem pts these activities so long as the activity meets, and
continues to meet, all preconditions listed:
(a) Sewage – Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated by
WDRs , or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable
water quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal
wastewater treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid waste from
wastewater treatment facilities shall be discharged only in accordance w ith the
applicable SWRCB -promulgated provisions of this division.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 17
(b) Wastewater – Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leachfields if the following
conditions are met:
(1) th e applicable regional water quality control board has issued WDRs , or
waived such issuance;
(2) the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan;
and
(3) the wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste.
(h) Reuse – Recycling or other use of materials salvaged from waste, or produced
by waste treatment, such as scrap metal, compost, and recycled chemicals,
provided that discharges of residual wastes f rom recycling or treatment
operations to land shall be according to applicable provisions of this division.
68. The discharge authorized herein and the treatment and storage facilities associated with
the discharge, except for discharges of residual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from
the requirements of Title 27, CCR .
a. Treatment Ponds 1, 2 and 4. The wastewater treatment ponds are exempt from
Title 27 pursuant to Section 20090(a) because they are treatment ponds associated
with a municipal domes tic wastewater treatment plant.
b. Emergency Storage Pond 5 , Secondary Effluent Storage Pond 6 and LAA.
Pond 5 and Pond 6 are unlined ponds; therefore, wastewater contained in the Ponds
potentially percolates to the underlying groundwater. Pond 5 wastewater is pumped
into Pond 6 and from Pond 6 the wastewater requires additional treatment before its
reuse on the SCGC. The LAA is used to dispose of excess treated wastewater that
either cannot be reused at the SCGC or that accumulates in Pond 6 prior to the rainy
season. Ponds 5 and 6 and the LAA are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to
Section 20090 (a) and (b).
The LAA and Ponds 5 and 6 are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to Section 20090 (a)
because they are associated with municipal wastewater treatment plants . The LAA
and Ponds 5 and 6 are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to Section 20090 (b) based on
the following: (1) Central Valley Water Board has issued WDRs; (2) The applicability
of this exemption depends on whether the discharge is in compliance with the Basin
Plan. Groundwater monitoring downgradient of Pond 6 shows degradation for chloride
and an increase in TDS. The Order requires this assertion to be verified by
conducting an annual groundwater quality statistical evaluation for each well and
submitting a r eport to determine if degradation is occurring and if that degradation is
consistent with the Anti -degradation Policy. These reports will be used to determine
whether additional treatment and/or improved containment are needed to ensure
compliance with the Basin Plan and new WDRs are necessary. Because compliance
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 18
with the Basin Plan cannot be determined immediately, this Order includes a
compliance schedule for completion of those tasks. (3) Based on effluent monitoring
data presented, treated effluent discharged to the effluent storage ponds does not
need to be managed as h azardous waste. Pond 5 and Pond 6 are not exempt from
Title 27 pursuant to Section 20090 (h) because the secondary treated wastewater
stored in the ponds requires additional treatment before its reuse on the SCGC. The
LAA is not exempt from Title 27 pursuant to Section 20090 (h) because their use is for
wastewater disposal and there is no reuse.
c. The SCGC. The reuse of treated wastewater at the SCGC has regulatory coverage
under an N PDES permit and that permit contains the appropriate Title 27 exemption
for this activity . The golf course reuse may qualify for an exemption under Title 27
pursuant to Section 20090(h) .
69. While the WWTP is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods of Title 27 are
appropriate for determining whether the discharge complies with the terms for protection of
groundwater specified in this Order, particularly the intra- well statistical method.
Public Notice
70. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the
following conditions of discharge.
71. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided
an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
72. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public meeting.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 5- 00-136 is rescinded, and pursuant to Sections
13263 and 13267 of the California Water Code, the Calaveras County Water District, their
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
California Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions, and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 19
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in the
Findings is prohibited.
4. Discharge of waste classified as “hazardous” under Title 23 CCR Chapter 15, Section
2521, or “designated,” as defined i n Section 13173 of CWC is prohibited.
5. Surfacing of treated wastewater outside and downgradient of the reservoir or ponds is
prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications
1. The influent flow rate shall not exceed any of the following limits:
Title Effective Dates Units Flow Limit
Dry Weather
Flow Rate
 July, August,
September Million gallons/day as
a
monthly average
 0.23
Monthly Maximum
Flow Rate
 Other than July,
August, September Million gallons/day as
a
monthly average
 0.28
Annual Total
Flow Rate All yea r Million gallons/year1 92.95

1Calculated as an annual total , January through December.
2. Upon Executive Officer approval of the report described in Provision G.1.d. of this
Order, the monthly average dry weather influent flow shall not exceed any of the
following limits:
Title Effective Dates Units Flow Limit
Dry Weather
Flow Rate
 July, August,
September Million gallons/day as
a
monthly average
 0.35
Monthly Maximum
Flow Rate
 Other than July,
August, September Million gallons/day as
a
monthly av erage
 0.40
Annual Total
Flow Rate All year Million gallons/year1 135.45

1 Calculated as an annual total , January through December.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 20
3. The Discharger and SCGC shall maximize the use of recycled water for the golf course
irrigation. After the completion of Pond 6 expansion, the on- site land application will
serve as a backup means of effluent disposal , such as before the winter season to
maintain the maximum storage capacity of Pond 6. The SCGC irrigation will be the
primary means of reuse and thus effluent disposal.
4. Neither the treatment nor the discharge of wastewater shall cause a nuisance or
condition of pollution as defined by the CWC Section 13050.
5. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as
fences, signs , or acceptable alternatives.
6. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released
or discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.
7. Objectionable odors originating at the facility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the property at an intensity that creates or threatens to create nuisance conditions.
8. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification B. 7, the dissolved
oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall not be less
than 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the DO in any single
pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive sampling events, the Discharger shall
report the findings to the Cent ral Valley Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall
include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.
9. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
10. All wastewater treatment and storage ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. Example management strategies include,
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
11. The facility shall have sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow, design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary
inflow and infiltration during the winter months. Design seasonal precipitation shall be
based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed
monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 21
12. All treatment, storage, and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100- year return
frequency.
13. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the integrity
of containment levees and prevent overtopping and/or structural failure. Unless a
California -registered civil engineer certifies (based on design, construction, and
conditions of operation and maintenance) that less freeboard is adequate, the operating
freeboard in any pond shall never be less than two feet as measured vertically from the
water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
14. On or about 1 5 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications B.11 and B.13.
C. Land Application Area Specifications
1. Application of effluent shall comply with the following setback requirements:
Setback Definition 1 Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of LAA to domestic well 2 50
Toe of recycled water impoundment berm to
domestic water supply well 100

1 As defined by the wetted area produced during irrigation.
2 Unless all of the following condition have been met:
a. A geological investigation demonstrates that an aquitard exists at the well between the uppermost
aquifer being drawn from the ground and the surface.
b. The well contains an annular seal that extends from the sur face into the aquitard.
c. The well is housed to prevent any recycled water spray from coming into contact with the wellhead
facilities.
d. The ground surface immediately around the wellhead is contoured to allow surface water to drain
away from the well.
e. The owner of the well approves of the elimination of the buffer zone requirement.

2. The volume of treated wastewater applied to the LAA on any single day shall not exceed
reasonable agronomic rates based on the vegetation grown, pre- discharge soil moisture
conditions, and weather conditions.
3. The discharge of treated wastewater to the LAA shall be at reasonable agronomic rates
designed to maximize uptake and breakdown of waste constituents in the root zone and
minimize the percolation of waste constituents below the root zone.
4. Irrigation runoff (e.g., tailwater) shall be completely contained within the designated LAA
and shall not enter any surface water drainage course.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 22
5. Irrigation of effluent shall not be performed within 24 hours of a forecasted storm, during
a storm, within 24 hours after any measurable precipitation event, or when the ground is
saturated.
6. Spray irrigation of effluent is prohibited when wind velocities exceed 30 mph.
7. The LAA shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular:
a. There shall be no standing water 72 hours after irrigation ceases;
b. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes
shall not be used to store effluent.
8. The LAA shall be in operating condition.
D. Solids/Sludge Disposal Specificatio ns
1. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that
will not be subject to further treatment at the facility. Biosolids refers to sludge that has
undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to federal and
state regulations as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture, hort iculture, and land
recycling.
2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, and ponds as needed to
ensure optimal plant operation.
3. Treatment and storage of sludge generated by the WWTP shall be confined to its
property, and shall be conduc ted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soils in a mass or at concentrations that will violate the Groundwater
Limitations of this Order.
4. Any storage of residual sludge, solid waste, and biosolids at the facility shall be
temporary, and the waste shall be controlled and contained in a manner that minimizes
leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
at concentrations that will violate the Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
5. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27 CCR Division 2. Removal for
further treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites operated in accordance with valid
waste discharge requirements issued by a California Water Board will satisfy this
specification.
6. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self -implementing Federal
regulations of 40 CFR 503, which are subject to enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the
Central Valley Water Board. If during the life of this Order, the state accepts primacy for
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2010-0070- 01
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
COPPER COVE WWTP
CALAVERAS COUNTY
 23
implementation of 40 CFR 503, the Central Valley Water Board may also initiate
enforcement where appropriate.
E.