FACILITY INFORMATION  
The Discharger is the owner of the Facility but currently contracts Veolia Water West 
Operating Services Inc . to operate and maintain the Facility.  The Facility provides  
sewerage service for the community  of Atwater  (population of 31,970 based on 2020 
census), the unincorporated community of Winton (population of  11,709 based on 
2020 census), and both the Federal Bureau of Prisons – Atwater and the Castle 
Airport Aviation and Development Center (combined population of approximately 
1,500).  The design average dry weather flow capacity  of the Facility  is 6.0 MGD . 
The Facility provides full nitrification and denitrification for nitrogen removal and uses 
ultraviolet light (UV) for disinfection. A Location Map is included in  Appendix A  and a 
Liquid/Solids  Flow Schematic is included in Appendix B.  The components of the 
Facility include:  
• A headworks with fine screening and grit removal;  
•  Two oxidation ditches providing nitrification and denitrification;  
• Three secondary clarifiers;  
•  Three cloth- media tertiary filters;  
• An UV disinfection system;  
• Two aerobic digesters;  
• A solids holding day tank;  
• Three rotary presses;  
•   A concrete biosolids storage/drying area; and  
•  An unlined emergency storage basin also used as a stormwater retention 
pond for onsite stormwater runoff.  
The Facility has a design flow of 6.0 MGD. For the 20 21 calendar year, the Facility 
received an annual average influent flow of 3.3 MGD. The Facility’s UV system 
consists of three UV  chambers each containing five banks. Sludge wasted from the 
secondary clarifiers is either  returned to the oxidation ditches as returned activated 
sludge or wasted to the aerobic  digesters as waste activated sludge. B iosolids are 
stored and dried at the Facility for a minimum of three months.  
II. R ECEIVING WATER BENEFICIAL  USES  
The Facility discharges from Discharge Point 001 (37.2803, -120.633) to 
Peck/Atwater Drain, which is hydraulically connected to the San Joaquin River, a 
water of the United States, between Sack Dam and the mouth of the Merced River 
within the El Nido -Stevinson Hydrologic Area of the San Joaquin Valley Floor 
Hydrologic Unit (Hydrologic Area No. 535.70).  
Peck Drain is a manmade, unlined channel constructed to convey water from 
Atwater Drain to Joseph Gallo Farms (Gallo Ranch). Atwater Drain empties into 
Peck Drain at the eastern boundary of the Gallo Ranch property just south of State 
Route 140 and along Bert Crane Road. The historic alignment of Atwater Drain is 
abandoned at this location. Peck Drain rejoins the original Atwater Drain alignment 
on the southwest side of Gallo Ranch.  
City of Atwater   17 July 2024  
Atwater Regional WWTF   R5-2023 -0025 -005 
- 4 - Beyond Gallo Ranch, Atwater Drain borders a few large agricultural parcels and two 
managed wetland areas. Atwater Drain is also a man -made, unlined channel  
originally constructed by  Merced Irrigation District to dispose of groundwater 
pumped to lower the groundwater table in agricultural lands. The Atwater Drain was 
later modified to also collect and disperse agricultural tail  waters from surrounding 
properties, overflow from the adjacent irrigation supply channels, and stormwater 
drainage from the City of Atwater. Gallo Ranch, as part of its agreement with the Discharger, has the right to all  treated wastewater discharged to Peck Drain. Any 
water not extracted for use by Gallo Ranch flows into Atwater Drain. Atwater Drain 
terminates at the Arena Plains  Unit of the Merced National Wildlife Refuge. Water in 
the Merced National Wildlife Refuge can flow into the San Joaquin River via the East 
Side Canal.  
Starting in 2016, the United States Bureau of Reclamation entered into one- year 
agreements to purchase up to 6,000 acre- feet per year of tertiary -treated wastewater 
from Gallo  Farms. The treated wastewater is pumped out of Peck/Atwater Drain into 
Bear Creek. Bear  Creek is used to convey the treated wastewater to the East Bear 
Creek Unit of the San Luis National Wildlife Refuge complex. Water in Bear Creek, if not diverted, will flow into the San Joaquin River.  
Beneficial uses applicable to discharge  are carried over from the previous NOA  R5-
2017 -0085-001. See Appendix C  section III of this NOA for how surface water 
beneficial uses were established. Groundwater underlying the Facility is in the El 
Nido-Stevinson Detailed Analysis Unit (DAU) No. 212. The beneficial uses of 
groundwater for this DAU are designated in the Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fifth  Edition, revised  February 
2019 (Basin Plan) . The following beneficial uses are applicable to  the discharge:  
Table 2. Beneficial Uses  
Discharge 
Point