facility description incorrectly states the California 
National Guard and San Luis Obispo County own and maintain discrete wastewater 
collection systems.  
 
Staff response: The proposed Order has been corrected to clarify the Discharger 
operates and maintains those particular collection systems under an agreement between 
the parties. 
7. CDCR comment: Attachment F facility description incorrectly states the volume of 
recycled water used at Dairy Creek golf course. (1) The treated wastewater that is used 
by the County to irrigate is nowhere near “approximately 140 acres” of Dairy Creek golf 
course. It is used to irrigate the golf course, ball fields, and the botanical gardens. (2) 
Morro Bay golf course is permitted to utilize wastewater from imported source waters 
that the WWTP discharges to Chorro Creek which is then pumped from a well in the 
Chorro Creek Basin to irrigate the golf course. (3) The WWTP is required by Fish and 
Game to discharge primarily 0.75 cubic feet per second to Chorro Creek, if available. 
Morro Bay golf course, by permit and agreement, receives a set quantity of treated 
effluent for irrigation, if available. Dairy Creek golf course is permitted to utilize 
wastewater from imported source waters that the WWTP discharges to a holding pond at 
the WWTP of any remaining surplus treated effluent when needed for irrigation. Any 
other available amounts are discharged to Chorro Creek. 
 
Staff response: The information in the description of the recycled water application site 
of the public draft Order was taken directly from the Discharger’s Report of Waste 
Discharge (the application package to support the request to renew the Discharger’s 
order). (1) The application package only specified Dairy Creek golf course and stated 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION ORDER NO. R3-2020-0005 
CALIFORNIA MEN’S COLONY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047856 
 
 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-40 land application site size as 140 acres, and the Discharger has not provided an alternate 
estimate of size as part of their comments. As such, staff recommends not revising the 
proposed Order’s acreage estimation because the Discharger has not provided 
substantial information with which to make any revision. The application package did not 
include any mention of ball fields and botanical gardens. (2) Morro Bay golf course’s use 
of recycled water is beyond the scope of this proposed Order. (3) Any agreements 
between the Discharger and other California agencies with regards to minimum flow 
rates are also not a part of this proposed Order, in other words this proposed Order (and 
its predecessor) does not include a minimum flow requirement as an enforceable 
provision. No changes to the proposed Order are recommended regarding the 
Discharger’s agreement with DFW (formerly named California Department of Fish and 
Game). 
8. CDCR comment: Attachment F Rational for effluent limitations B.6.g salinity states “As 
described in the following discussion, current discharge is not causing Chorro Creek to 
exceed WQOs since background concentrations of the pollutants naturally exceed 
WQOs in table 3-5 in the Basin Plan. Implementation of the maximum daily effluent 
limitation for sulfate, along with the implementation of a salt management plan and 
discontinued use of sodium bisulfite for de-chlorination, as described in this Fact Sheet, 
will prevent further degradation and protect beneficial uses of Chorro Creek. The 
statement conflicts with the receiving water limitations not to exceed 50 mg/L for sodium. 
 
Staff response: Please see staff response to CDCR comment 2. No change 
recommended. 
9. CDCR comment: The comment is generally duplicative of the previous CDCR comment 
regarding background concentrations in upstream receiving water and groundwater in 
excess of Basin Plan objectives.  
 
Staff response: Please see staff response to CDCR comment 2. No change is 
recommended. 
10. CDCR comment: Attachment F section B.6.g Control of Salts states “Water softeners for 
the central steam plant now discharge to brine ponds and the Facility no longer 
discharges any water from the brine ponds into the wastewater system.” This is an error 
in fact. The steam plant water softener discharges to a double wall storage container for 
periodic removal from site. 
 
Staff response: The relevant section has been revised to reflect the updated information.  
11. CDCR comment: Attachment F section B.6.g Control of Salts states “The Discharger has 
multiple Prison Industry Authority programs that occur on-site including a laundry 
program and a textile program. The laundry facility currently uses water softening to 
minimize the amount of detergents required. The Discharger is considering the use of a 
recycled water system to reduce the need for softening of raw water.” This is an error in 
fact. The laundry facility does not utilize water softening to minimize the amount of 
detergents required. The Discharger is not considering the use of a recycled water 
system to reduce the need for softening of raw water. 
 
Staff response: The relevant section has been revised to reflect the updated information. 
12. CDCR comment: Attachment F section B.6.g Control of Salts states “There are no water 
softeners used at the State Military Department Facility and Cuesta College has one 
residential water softener, which is considered to have an insignificant impact on salt 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION ORDER NO. R3-2020-0005 
CALIFORNIA MEN’S COLONY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047856 
 
 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-41 loading to the Facility. The Discharger has no control over the operation of these 
facilities.” This is an error in fact. The Discharger has no direct knowledge of the extent 
of use of water softeners at its satellite systems and has no authority to control their use. 
Staff response: The cited historical information was provided by the Discharger during 
previous discussions of their Salt Management Study. Since the Discharger is now 
indicating uncertainty of the current status of that information, staff will work with the 
Discharger and the satellite systems to verify and update the current salt contributions. 
No changes to the proposed Order are recommended based on the limited information 
provided in the Discharger’s comment. 
13. CDCR comment: Attachment F section B.6.g sources of salts discusses data set from 
the Discharger’s May 2009 Salt Management Study. The data sets from Central Coast 
Water Authority source water are over a decade old and inadequate sampling for its 
ration for effluent limitations and discharge specifications for a permit. Many changes 
have occurred that may influence the veracity of the data and therefore the integrity of 
any conclusions inferred from that data. 
 
Staff response: The portions of the data tables which are outdated are not the sole 
source of evidence considered for establishing the effluent limitations contained within 
the proposed Order. The proposed Order implements new influent monitoring 
requirements for salts. This new data set will provide updated information on source 
water contributions. The Discharger has the opportunity to provide updated data to 
supplement any existing data sets in support of their application and renewal process. 
The Discharger did not provide any updated monitoring data sets to the ones they’ve 
specifically identified as outdated. No changes to the proposed Order are recommended 
based on the Discharger’s comments.  Central Coast Water Board staff will continue to 
work with CMC to review updated data for incorporation in the next permit renewal. 
14. CDCR comment: Attachment F section B.6.g conclusions on rationale for effluent 
limitations discusses the continued implementation of a Salt Management Study and 
Plan as well as acknowledgment of elevated salinity in source water and naturally 
occurring salinity in receiving waters. Discharger disputes the “effluent limitations due to 
not being science-based but based on a Regional Basin Plan that does not address 
specific natural conditions of surface and groundwater salinity upgradient of the point of 
discharge.  
 
Staff response: The proposed Order acknowledges receiving water limitations 
compliance is evaluated on the effluent discharge’s contribution  to the natural 
system. In other words, the receiving water limitations do not require the Discharger to 
be held responsible for naturally occurring exceedances of water quality objectives. The 
comment does not distinguish between receiving water limitations and effluent 
limitations. There is one effluent limitation related to salinity (sulfate), and the effluent 
limitation (125 mg/L maximum daily) is well above the Basin Plan’s sulfate surface water 
quality objective of 50 mg/L. The scientific rationale for setting the sulfate effluent 
limitation is described in the proposed Order (Fact Sheet section IV.C.6.g, pages F-27 
through F-30) and sampling data supports the effluent limitation. As well, the proposed 
Order’s rationale was thoroughly explained to not establish effluent limitations for 
chloride and sodium. The Discharger is incorrect that the effluent limitations do not 
address the specific natural conditions. No changes to the proposed Order are 
warranted to address the Discharger’s comment. 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION ORDER NO. R3-2020-0005 
CALIFORNIA MEN’S COLONY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047856 
 
 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-42 C. Public Hearing
The Central Coast Water Board held a public hearing on this Order during its regular Board 
meeting on the following date and time, by video and teleconference as authorized by and in 
furtherance of Executive Orders N-29-20 and N-33-20: 
Date:   May 28, 2020 
Time:   9:00 am-5:00 pm 
Location:  Link to video and teleconference was provid