Existing Facility and Discharge
7. The Facility consist s of headworks, one oxidation ditch, one second ary clarifier, eight
unlined evaporation/percolation ponds, a high -density polyethylene ( HDPE ) lined
facultative sludge lagoon, and an unlined overflow percolation pond.
8. Wastewater enters the Main Lift Station through a 15- inch interceptor sewer, passes
through a Parshall flume and then a comminutor before it is pumped through an 8-
inch force main, to the treatment plant. The comminutor downstream of the Parshall
flume causes backup and results in inaccurate flow measurements; therefore,
influent flows are currently measured via wet well levels. The Main Lift Station consists of three pumps. The effective capacity (largest pump out of service) of the
lift station is approximately 1,325 gallons per minute ( gpm).
9. At the treatment plant wastewater passes through a hydrosieve static screen and
distribution box. The wastewater flows from the screen by gravity to the oxidation ditch . The racetrack -shaped oxidation ditch is equipped with one brush aerator and
three floating aerators. Effluent from the oxidation ditch flows by gravity to a 35- foot
diameter secondary clarifier. Clarifier effluent gravity flows to evaporation/percolation
Ponds 1- 7 which are typically operate d in series. Return activated sludge (RAS) is
pumped back to the oxidation ditch, and clarifier scum is pumped back to the
hydrosieve.
10. Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) is pumped to an HDPE lined facultative sludge
lagoon. The pond was constructed and lined in 1989. Sludge lagoon supernatant is
sent to unlined Pond 8. Pond 8 has seepage at the base of its berm, and therefor e a
French drain was installed which routes collected seepage to the unlined overflow
percolation pond. Pond capacities are summarized in the table below.
Table 1: Pond Sizing
Pond
Average Depth
(feet) Surface Area
(square feet) Volumetric Capacity
(cubic feet)
Pond 1 4.5 61,000 274,500
Pond 2 4.5 61,000 274,500
Pond 3 4.75 52,200 247,950
Pond 4 5.25 56,600 297,150
Pond 5 4.75 65,300 310,175
Pond 6 4.5 56,600 254,700
Pond 7 4.75 65,300 310,175
Pond 8 4.5 69,700 313,650
Sludge Lagoon 10.0 39,200 392,000
Percolation Pond 7.0 25,700 179,900

ORDER R5-2017 -0050 3
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

11. From 2014- 2016, due to excess buildup of solids in the sludge lagoon, sludge was
removed each summer and placed in available evaporation/percolation ponds for
drying. The dried solids were hauled to a landfill by October 15 each year.
12. Four sludge drying beds were originally installed to dry WAS from the secondary
clarifier. However, these are no longer utilized due to inadequate drying area and too
short of a drying season.
13. The Facility was originally designed for an average dry weather flow (ADFW) of 0.44
mgd and a peak wet weather flow (PWWF) of 1.02 mgd. The current ADFW is estimated to at 0 .21 mgd based on summer flows (July -September) from 2014 and
2015.
14. One influent and one effluent sample were taken for the preparation of the ROWD.
The results are listed below.
Constituent Unit Source
Water1 Influent2,3 Effluent2 Primary
MCL Secondary
MCL
Alkalinity as CaCO 3 mg/L 56 - 30 - -
Aluminum µg/L ND - 204 1,000 200
Ammonia as N mg/L ND 43.1 0.10 - -
Arsenic µg/L ND - ND 10 -
Bicarbonate mg/L 68 - 37 - -
BOD mg/L - 409 8 - -
Boron µg/L 2.3 - - - -
Calcium mg/L 9.7 - 14 - -
Carbonate mg/L ND - ND - -
Chloride mg/L 0.39 - 36.6 - 250
Chromium µg/L 0.6 - - 50 -
COD mg/L - - 42 - -
Copper µg/L ND - 10.3 1,300 1,000
EC µmhos/cm 103 741 403 - 900
Hardness mg/L 42 - 60 - -
Iron µg/L ND - 174 - 300
Lead µg/L - - 0.8 15 -
Magnesium mg/L 5.1 - 6.0 - -
Manganese µg/L ND - - - 50
Mercury µg/L ND - ND 2 -
Nitrate as N mg/L 0.07 - 14.3 10 -
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 4
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

pH SU 7.94 7.6 6.88 - 6.5-8.5
Potassium mg/L 1.5 - 14.2 - -
Settleable Matter mL/L - - ND - -
Sodium mg/L 4.1 - 42.6 - -
Sulfate mg/L 0.25 - 15.8 500 250
TDS mg/L 72 294 279 - 500
TKN mg/L ND 56.7 2.6 - -
TSS mg/L - 290 6.7 - -
Zinc µg/L ND - - - 5,000
1 Based on maximum source water monitoring results taken since 2006 from District
Well 6 .
2 Based on one monitoring event on 12 May 2016.
3 Influent ammonia and TKN results sampled on 23 August 2016.
ND = Non -detect
mg/L = milligram per liter
µg/L = microgram per liter
SU = standard unit
MCL = maximum contaminant level

15. There is currently no standby power or emergency storage at the treatment plant.
During prolonged power outages or equipment failures and/or repairs, the treatment plant is bypassed and untreated or partially treated sewage is sent to the evaporation/percolation ponds. The discharger plans to include the purchase and installation of a permanent generator and manual transfer switch at the WWTP as
part of an upcoming capital improvement project (target installation date 2022).
16. In addition to domestic wastewater, WDRs Order 94- 017 allows the D ischarger to
accept industrial wastewater from Burney Mountain Power Cogeneration Facility,
leachate from Intermountain Landfill and the Burney Transfer Station, and log deck recycle pond water from Burney Forest Products and Sierra Pacific Industries
Burney (SPI- Burney ).
a. In the past the WWTP has received cooling tower blowdown, boiler
blowdown, and plant wash- down water from Burney Mountain Power
Cogeneration Facility through a metered, hard- piped connection into Pond 7.
Burney Mountain Power Cogeneration Facility is no longer in oper ation
(since 2011), and it is uncertain whether this facility will resume operations in the future. However, Burney Mountain Power Cogeneration Facility still has a
WDR permit (Order 95 -098) that allows them to discharge 0.050 mgd
(ADWF) to Burney Wastewat er Treatment Plant.
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 5
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

b. Burney Forest Products, which is regulated by N ational Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit WDR R5 -2014- 0035, has a history of
capacity issues during wet weather. If the power plant pond or log deck
recycle pond reach capacity, wastewater can be trucked off -site to the
Burney WWTP for disposal into Pond 7. Burney Forest Products has not discharged to the WWTP since 2008; however, they had an unauthorized discharge to a creek in December 2014.
c. In the past the WWTP has received log deck recycle water from SPI-Burney.
SPI-Burney has modified their operations and no longer discharges to the
WWTP.
d. Historically the WWTP has received leachate from Intermountain Landfill and the Burney Transfer Station into the HDPE -lined slud ge lagoon. However,
Intermountain Landfill now has a leachate storage tank and hasn’t hauled leachate to the WWTP since at least before 2000 (according to Geotracker), and Burney Transfer Station no longer disposes of leachate at the WWTP.
Site-Specific and Groundwater Conditions
17. The WWTP is located on flat terrain at an approximate elevation of 3, 000 feet mean
sea level (MSL) . According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA)
flood insurance map, the WWTP lies in an area in which flood hazards are
undetermined, but possible. The WWTP is located at an elevation such that the
possibility of flooding Burney Creek is remote.
18. The WWTP lies in the Burney Creek Watershed which flows to Burney Creek.
Burney Creek flows northward in the watershed and ultimately drains into Lake
Britton.
19. The average annual precipitation for the area is approximately 15 inches. The 100
year, 365- day precipitation is approximately 33 inches. The local annual
evapotranspiration is approximately 49 inches, and the annual pan evaporation rate
is approximately 37 inches.
20. The land surrounding the WWTP is mostly native vegetation and is owned by Fruit
Growers Supply Co. and Hathaway Burney Ranch LP. Irrigation water for Hathaway
Ranch is supplied by an onsite well identified as the Hathaway Well.
21. The subsurface structure beneath the oxidation ponds consists primarily of gravelly
clay in the near -surface materials 6 inches to 4 feet deep, likely reflecting a laminate
of graded fill over intensely weathered basalt.
22. Subsurface testing conducted in 1985 by Geotechnical Consultants, Inc. found the
following:
e. Ponds 1 through 7 have percolation rates slower than 5 minutes per inch,
and therefore are suitable for percolation.
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 6
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

f. There was no evidence of lava tubes or other open fractures without benefit
of soil filtration.
g. Secondary pathways (jointing) were clearly present in the subsurface; however, these fractures were typically clay -filled and vertically
discontinuous.
h. The interlayering of fresh rock and highly weathered zones appears to fulfill
the five feet of soil horizon on a cumulative basis.
23. Groundwater in the Burney Creek Basin predominantly flows from south to north
towards Lake Britton. The basin consists of Quaternary lake deposits and is
bounded on al l sides by Pleistocene basalt.
24. There are currently no groundwater monitoring wells on- site. Fractured volcanic
formations and vertical discontinuities due to highly weathered horizontal layers are
present throughout the site. It is possible that the instal lation of monitoring wells, if
required, would not be representative of localized groundwater activity.
25. Total coliform is monitored in a nearby, downgradient, private, domestic well (Hathaway Well). Hathaway Well is approximately 1000 feet northwest of th e WWTP
ponds and is the nearest sensitive receptor. In 18 quarterly sampling results taken since 2010, all have been less than 2.2 MPN/100 mL (most probable number per
milliliter) for total coliform.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerati ons
26. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River
Basins, Fourth Edition (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting wate rs of the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the
State Water Board . Pursuant to California Water Code section 13263(a), waste
discharge requirements must implement the Basin Plan.
27. Local drainage is to the Burney Creek which is ultimately a tributary of the Pit River .
The existing beneficial uses of the Pit River, as stated in the Basin Plan, are:
municipal and domestic supply (MUN); agricultural irri gation and stock watering
(AGR); non- contac t and body contact recreation, (REC-1 and REC -2); warm and
cold freshwater aquatic habitat (WARM and COLD) ; warm and cold spawning,
reproduction, and/or early development habitat (SPW N); and wildlife habitat (WILD) .
Potential beneficial uses of the Pit River include canoeing and rafting (R EC-1).
28. The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as set forth in the Basin Plan are municipal and domestic supply, agricultural supply, industrial service supply and
industrial process supply.
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 7
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

29. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectiv es for chemical
constituents, tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater . It also sets forth a
numeric objective for total coliform organisms.
30. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objective for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven- day period shall be
less than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater.
31. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, at a
minimum, require waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to mee t the
maximum contaminant levels (MCL) specified in Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations (hereafter Title 22). The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not
contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.
32. The narrative toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic
substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in
human, animal, plant, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses.
33. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site- specific evaluation of
those constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial
uses . The Basin Plan states that when compliance with a narrative objective is
required to protect specific beneficial uses, the Central Valley Water Board will, on a case -by-case basis, adopt numerical limitations in order to implement the narrative
objective.
34. In the absence of specific numerical water quality limits, the Basin Plan methodology
is to consider a ny relevant published criteria. General salt tolerance guidelines, such
as Water Quality for Agriculture by Ayers and Westcot and similar references indicate that yield reductions in nearly all crops are not evident when irrigation water
has an electrical conductivity ( EC) less than 700 μmhos/cm (micromhos). There is,
however, an eight - to ten- fold range in salt tolerance for agricultural crops and the
appropriate salinity values to protect agriculture in the Central Valley are considered
on a case- by-case basis . It is possible to achieve full yield potential with waters
having EC up to 3,000 μmhos/cm if the proper leaching fraction is provided to
maintain s oil salinity within the tolerance of the crop.
Antidegradation Analysis
35. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68- 16 (“Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the State”) (hereafter Resolution 68- 16) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 8
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future
beneficial uses.
c. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives, and
d. The discharger employs best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize degradation.
36. Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents associated with discharges from a municipal wastewater utility, after effective source control, treatment, and control measures are implemented, is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state. The tec hnology, energy, water recycling, and
waste management advantages of municipal utility service far exceed any benefits derived from reliance on numerous, concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less . The economic prosperity of
mountain communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people
of the State, and provides sufficient justification for allowing the limited groundwater
degradation that may occur pursuant to this Order.
37. This O rder establishes effluent and groundwater limitations for the WWTP that will
not unreasonably threaten present and anticipated beneficial uses or result in
groundwater pollutant concentrations that exceed water quality objectives set forth in
the Basin Plan.
38. For the treatment and disposal of wastewater, t he Discharger provides treatment
and control that incorporates:
a. Optimization of the Oxidation Ditch operation to maximize biological oxygen
demand ( BOD ) removal, nitrification, and denitrification.
b. Optimiza tion of the Secondary Clarifiers operation to maximize sludge
removal.
c. Optimization of Percolation/Evaporation Ponds for effluent disposal.
For this Facility, the Board considers these measures to be best prac ticable
treatment or control ( BPTC ) for the treatment and disposal of wastewater .
39. However, t he solids management practices at the Facility are inconsistent with the
Antidegradation Policy because existing information indicates that they may threaten to adversely affect the beneficial uses o f the underlying groundwater and because
the Board does not consider the current practices to be BPTC of the wastes in the discharge. Therefore, these WDRs require the Discharger to submit a Solids Management and Storage Work Plan (Solids Work Plan) that m ust propose
upgrades to the current solids management practices. The Solids Work Plan must identify alternatives for 1) sludge processing and 2) sludge lagoon supernatant management. The Solids Work Plan shall include an assessment of the viability,
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 9
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

effect iveness, and cost of each alternative. Effectiveness shall be measured by the
degree to which each alternative will reduce impacts to groundwater, including
estimated concentration and/or mass loading reductions. The Solids Work Plan shall propose a time s chedule for implementing a preferred alternative. The time schedule
may not exceed 5 years from the date of the issuance of this Order.
The Board’s Executive Officer will evaluate the preferred alternative to ensure that it will be both effective at protec ting the underlying groundwater and that it represents
BPTC of the wastes in the discharge. Upon the Executive Officer’s concurrence, the Discharger must implement the preferred alternative in accordance with the time
schedule proposed in the Solids Work P lan.
As necessary, the Board may reopen this Order to incorporate numerical
groundwater limits, groundwater monitoring requirements, and/or additional
requirements to ensure compliance with the Antidegradation Policy.
Other Regulatory Considerations
40. In co mpliance with Water Code section 106.3, it is the policy of the State of
California that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and
accessible water adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitary purposes. This order promotes th at policy by requiring discharges to meet maximum
contaminant levels designed to protect human health and ensure that water is safe
for domestic use.
41. Based on the threat and complexity of the discharge, the facility is determined to be classified as 2B as defined below :
a. Category 2 threat to water quality: “Those discharges of waste that could
impair the designated beneficial uses of the receiving water, cause short -
term violations of water quality objectives, cause secondary drinking water standards to be v iolated, or cause a nuisance.”
b. Category B complexity, defined as: “Any discharger not included [as Category A] that has physical, chemical, or biological treatment systems (except for septic systems with subsurface disposal) or any Class 2 or Class 3 waste management units.”
42. Title 27 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 27) contains regulatory requirements for the treatment, storage, processing, and disposal of solid waste.
However, Title 27 exempts certain activities from its provisions . Discharges
regulated by this Order are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to provisions that exempt
domestic sewage, wastewater, and reuse. Title 27, section 20090 states in part:
a. Sewage - Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are
regulated by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of this
code, or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 10
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

associated with municipal wastewater treatment plants, provided that
residual sludge or solid waste from wastewater treatment facilities shall be
discharged only in accordance with the applicable State Water Resources Control Board ( SWRCB ) promulgated provisions of this division.
b. Wastewater - Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leach fields if the
following conditions are met:
1) The applicable R egional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) has
issued WDRs, r eclamation requirements, or waived such issuance;
2) The discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control
plan; and
3) The wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste .
43. The discharge authorized herein (except for the discharge of residual sludge and
solid waste), and the treatment and storage facilities associated with the discharge,
are exempt from the requirements of Title 27 as follows :
a. The oxidation ditch, clarif ier, and facultative sludge lagoon are exempt
pursuant to Title 27, section 20090(a) because they are treatment and
storage facilities associated with a municipal domestic wastewater treatment plant.
b. Ponds 1 through 8 and Percolation Pond 1, are exempt pur suant to Title 27,
section 20090(b) because they are wastewater percolation/evaporation
ponds and:
1) The Central Valley Water Board is issuing WDRs.
2) The discharge is in compliance with the Basin Plan because this o rder
establishes effluent and groundwater li mitations for the WWTP that will
not unreasonably threaten present and anticipated beneficial uses or result in groundwater pollutant concentrations that exceed water quality objecti ves set forth in the Basin Plan, and;
3) The treated effluent discharged to t he ponds does not need to be
managed as hazardous waste.
44. The United States Environmental Protection Agency ( U.S. EPA) published Statistical
Analysis of Groundwater Monitoring Data at Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act (RCRA ) Facilities, Unified Guidanc e (hereafter “Unified Guidance”) in 2009. As
stated in the Unified Guidance, the document:
…is tailored to the context of the RCRA groundwater monitoring regulations
… [however, t]here are enough commonalities with other regulatory
groundwater monitoring programs… to allow for more general use of the tests
and methods in the Unified Guidance… Groundwater detection monitoring
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 11
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

involves either a comparison between different monitoring stations… or a
contrast between past and prese nt data within a given station… The Unified
Guidance also details methods to compare background data against
measurements fr om regulatory compliance points… [as well as] techniques
for comparing datasets ag ainst fixed numerical standards… [such as those]
encountered in many regulatory progr ams.
45. The statistical data analysis methods in the Unified Guidance are appropriate for
determining whether the discharge complies with Groundwater Limitations of this
Order.
46. The State Water Board adopted Order 2014- 0057- DWQ (NPDES General Permit
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge requirements for discharges of storm water
associated with industrial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all
affected industrial dischargers . The wastewater treatment facility has a design
capacity of l ess than 1.0 mgd. The Discharger is therefore not required to obtain
coverage under NPDES General Permit CAS000001.
47. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems General Order 2006- 0003-
DWQ (the General Order) . The General Order requires all public agencies that own
or operate sanitary sewer systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the Order . The Discharger’s collection system exceeds one mile in length and the
Discharge r is enrolled under the General Order.
48. Water Code section 13267(b)(1) states:
In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board
may require that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to
discharge waste within its region … shall furnish, under penalty of perjury,
technical or monitoring program reports which the board requires . The
burden, including costs of these reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship
to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the reports .
In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a
written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence t hat supports requiring that person to provide the reports.
49. The technical reports required by this Order and the attached Monitoring and
Reporting Program R5 -2017- 0050 (MRP) are necessary to ensure compliance with
these waste discharge requirements . The Discharger owns and operates the facility
that discharges the waste subject to this Order.
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 12
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

50. It has been previously determined that the operation of this facility does not require
the County to undertake a discretionary approval under the California Environm ental
Quality Act (“CEQA”)(Pub. Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.). All wastewater
management systems at the facility have already been installed and are currently in use. This Order places additional requirements on the continued operation of the
facility in order to ensure the protection of waters of the state. The issuance of this
Order is therefore exempt from the provisions of CEQA in accordance with California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301, which exempts the “operation, repair, maintenance, [and] permitting … of existing public or private structures, facilities,
mechanical equipment, or topographical features” from environmental review.
51. The U .S. EPA has promulgated biosolids reuse regulations in 40 C ode of Federal
Regulations (C FR) 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge, which
establishes management criteria for protection of ground and surface waters, sets
application rates for heavy metals, and establishes stabilization and disinfection
criteria.
52. The Central Valley Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines
in establishing this Order, but the Central Valley Water Board is not the implementing agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations . The Discharger may have
separate and/or additional compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to
the EPA.
53. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice
54. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached
Information Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the following conditions of discharge.
55. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the
Cent ral Valley Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for
this discharge, and they have been provided an opportunity to submit written
comments and an opportunity for a public hearing.
56. All comments pertaining to the discharge were hear d and considered in a public
hearing.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that pursuant to Water Code sections 13263 and 13267, the
Discharger, its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall
comply with the following:
ORDER R5-2017 -0050 13
BURNEY WATER DISTRICT
BURNEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.
2. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardous’, as defined in the California Code of
Regulations, title 2 2, section 66261.1 et seq., is prohibited.
3. Treatment system bypass of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited,
except as allowed by Standard Provision E.2 of the Standard Provisions and
Repor ting Require ments for Waste Discharge R equirements.
4. Discharge of waste at a location or in a manner different from that described in
the Findings is prohibited.
5. The Discharger shall not allow toxic substances to be discharged into the
wastewater treatment system such that biological treat ment mecha nisms are
disrupted.
B. Flow Limitations
1. Effective immediately effluent flows from the WWTP shall not exceed the
following limits:
Flow Measurement Flow Limit
 Average Dry Weather Flow 1 0.44 mgd
Peak Wet Weather Flow 2 1.02 mgd
1 The average dry weather flow (ADWF) represents the daily average flow when groundwater
is at or near normal and runoff is not occurring. Compliance with the average dry weather
flow limitations will be determined annually based on the average daily flow over the three
consecutive driest weather months (e.g., July, August, and September).
2 The peak wet weather flow (PWWF) is the highest flow at the plant sustained for one hour. The PWWF is expected to occur during the peak day flow.

C.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

