wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
2. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 1, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of all wastewater in ponds shall not be less that
1.0 mg/1.
3. The wastewater treatment and storage ponds shall not have a pH ofless than 6.5 or
greater than 8.5.
4. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
5. The ponds shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are not
created around the pe1imeter of the waste surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, and/or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
6. The Discharger's wastewater treatmel)t system shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 1 00-year return
frequency.
7. The freeboard in the storage reservoir shall never be less than tWo feet as measured ·
vertically from the water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
8. The wastewater ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow, design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration.
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return
period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with the historical rainfall
·patterns. -~' 0 :: ' •
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUikr:.l\1ENTS ORDER NO. 5-0l-033· ·
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
. AMADOR COUNTY ) ~to-
.I .
-,·'
9. · On or about 1 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the
V<?hune necessary to comply with Discharge Specifica~ions No, 7 ·imd1No .. _,8 • .:·· .) ·.
C. Effluellt Limitations . . ! : I ·. ' • . . ' ' . ~ . ,. .f
·:;:
The discharge of effluent to the disposal field in excess of the following limits is prohibited:
Parameter
BOD51
Total Suspended Solids · ·
<Dotal Nitrate{as Nittoge11): .
Total Colifonn Organisms
Settleable Solids 30-day Avg.
· Lirhit· Daily Maximum
.Lhnit •· · .. ···
40mg/L
60mg/L
10tng/L . ;
23 MPN/1 00 ml
0.5 ml/1 80mg/L
230 MPN/100 ml
1 5-day 20° C Biochemical Oxygen Demand
D. Reclamation Requirements: : .. ; ._.; 1
'··.?·-,. .·:··· · ..•.• ;1•
1. In all unsecured areas, reclaimed wastewater conveyance lines shall be clearly marked as
such.-· Reclaimed water .conttollers, valves~ ·etc. shall be affixed.wcith:. re~lajme~ .water •·
warning signs, and these and quick couplers and sprinkler heads shall be of a type, or
. ·securedJn such a· manner, that pennits operation by authorized personnel only; ·~ . ' ,\ , .
'1..,,:. ,{.'
2. Public• contact :with reclaimed wastewater sh~ll be .precluded through such means. a.s
fences, signs, and other acceptable altema~ives. ·
':,'·,'·· ~ '\ . .
' 3. Areas irrigated with reclaimed water shall be managed to prevent breeding of .
. mosquitoes; More specifically::: . ,
'f. .. ')' ,_;-, :··.
a. All applied irrigation water must infiltrate completely wjthin 48-hours. ·
h. ·Ditches not serving as wildlife habitat should be ~aintained free of. emergent;
marginal, and floating vegetation.' . . '·.. •. ·· .. ·
c. Low-pressure and un~pressurized pipelines and ditches which are accessible to
mosquitoes shall 'not be used to store reclaimed water. , , ,. ,, · · · ·. ·
.• 1 ' j ~ '
4. Reclaimed,water usedJorinigation shall be managed to minimize bo.th er0sicin.and
runoff from the disposal area.
5. Direct or windblown spray shall be confined to the designated recla.rD.ation area and
l?revented from contacting drinking water facilities. · · :· ,.;o
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUU }ENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
AMADOR COUNTY -11-
6. The Discharger. may not irrigate with effluent 24 hours before precipitation, during ,
pei"iods of precipitation, and for at least 24 hours after cessation of precipitation, or wh~
soils are saturated.
7. The D~scharger may n·ot spray in·igate ~ith effluent when wind velocities exceed 30 mph.
8. To aleti the public of the use of reclaimed water, signs with proper wording of sufficient
size shall be placed at areas of access and around the perimeter of all areas used for
effluent disposal.
9. There shall be no further impoundment of reclaimed water within 500 feet of any
domestic water well or irrigation well unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Executive Officer that a shorter distance is justified.
10. No spray irTigation of any recycled water, other than disinfected tertiary recycled water,
shall take place within 100 feet of a residence or place where public exposure could be
similar to that of a park, playground, or school yard.
E. Solids Disposal Requirements:
1. Collected screenings, grit, sludge, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be·
disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer, and consistent" with
. Consolidated Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid
Waste, as set forth in Title 27, CCR, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 20005, et seq.
2. Storage, use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing Federal, State, and
local laws and reglilations, including permitting requirements and technical standards
included in 40 CPR Part 503 and the Statewide Genenil Order for the Discharge of
Biosolids (Water Quality Order No. 2000-10-:DWQ) (or any subsequent document which
replaces Order No. 2000-10-DWQ). ·
3. Sludge and other solids shall be removed from ponds, clarifiers, etc. as needed to ensure
. optimal plant operation and adequate hydraulic capacity. Drying operations shall take
place such that leachate does not impact groundwater or surface water.
·4. Ifbiosolids will be stored onsite between 15 October and 15 May of any year, then they.
shall be stored in a facility constructed in accordance with Class ll surface impoundment ·
or waste pile standards contained in Title 27 of the CCR, or similar facility approved by
the Executive Officer. Such a facility shall be. designed and maintained to prevent
inundation or washout from a storm or flood with a .1 00 year return frequency. The
Discharger shall collect any leachate or storm water that comes in contact with the·
biosolids pile and return it to the wastewater treatment plant. ........ ::
"
~· ~ .....
~~:·,_ .. ~
... -:::.:: ·''.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUh .... eMENTS ORDER NO. 5-0 i -033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3,
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
AMADOR COUNTY .) -12-
5. Biosolids tnaY,ti'ot be di'sposed ofonsite except as a soil'ahuit'ldtnei1tused'at agronomic
·· rates.· Before onsite disposal is pennitted, the· Discharger must submit a technical report
containing all the information required for a Notice of h1tent for Water Quality Order No.
2000-1 0-DWQ (or a~1y subsequent document which replaces Order No. 2000-l 0-DWQ).
· The tecluiical report must be subn1itted at least 60 d~ys befortii the ruiticipated date of
disp·osal. · ·
6. Disposal of biosolids at a pe11nitted triunicipal solid waste lartdfill or at a ;pennitted
publicly owned treatment works is acceptable. The Discharger may also elect to dispose
of its biosolids at a facility pennitted under Order No. 2000-10-PWQ or at a similar
>facility pen11itfed t.u1dedndividtutrWbRs. No)rtattei: where the bi6solids are taken, the
Discharger hmst 'comply with all salnP,ling ~1id1 arialyticafh~quiretnettts of the entity that
accepts the waste. · ) · · · · · · ·'
·i!.'
j >-,: ,. :\:
The discharge, in combii1ation yvith other source~, snall not caus~ 'underlying ground\Xrater to
contain waste' constituents in concentration statistically greater than background water
quality, except for coliform bacteria. For coliform bacteria, increases shalftiot cause the
most probable number of total coliform organisms to exceed 2.2 MPN/1 00 ml over apy 7 -day
period. · ·. ·. · ..l ·' ·· · · · . ·.. · · ·' · . . · . · · · · · . · · . · · . .· : ·· ·
~ . . -~
· G. Surface Water Lhnitations: . ''
.. ;,) . ~ ·. .
The discharge shall not cause the surface watercourse downstream of tlle storage reservoir to
. contfdn waste· consHtl.lents. in ·concentrations statistically greater than bl:lCkground (Le.,
upstream) surf3.ce water quality~·· :.: · · ·
; • t . \
H; Provisions:
1. All of the following reports. shall be submitted pursuant to Section 13267 of the .
California WaterCode. · ' ·. · · · ·· · · · · · · ·
: '· ;, i o > \ ~ , ~ ~ \ I .• • • , " • , i .~ ' ,·.' ~ . 1 ' ' : '
a. By 3l·March 2001, the Discharger shall submit a weed minifnizhtion contt61plan for
controlling weeds !llld cattails around the tn:iatment plant and storage reservoir.
,' . :· . ·:· -. . ' ....
b. By 30 June 2002, the bischarger shall submit a Grotindwater Monitoring Well
·workplan. The workpl~ shall be preparedby ~i'Regfstered Geologist and shall
contain the information listed inAtt~ch:ment C: Items to be Included in a Monitoring
Well Installation Workplcm mida·MOJlztoring Welllnstalla,tion Report ofRes.ults .
. , ' II
\
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIL dENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
AMADOR COUNTY -13-
c. By 31 August 2001, the Discharger shall submit a repmi showing that it has installed
a valve or similar control structure on the North diversion ditch in order to prevent
discharges of irrigation tail water to surface watercourses.
d. By 30 June 2003, the Discharger shall submit a Monitoring Well Installation Repori
prepared by a Registered Geologist. The report shall describe the installation of
groundwater monitoring wells and shall contain the items found in the second section
of Attachment C.·
2. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Repmiing Program No. 5-01-033.
3. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements
for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and
by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are
commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
4. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or agreement
involving the disposal or reclamation areas, used to justify the capacity authorized herein
and assure compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of
the situatioi1 and of what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full
compliance with this Order.
5. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each compliance report due date
the specified document, or if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or
noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If noncompliance is reported,
then the Discharger shall state the reasons for noncompliance and shall provide a
schedule to come into compliance.
6. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique(s) currently
available to comply with discharge limits specified in this order.
7. The Discharger shall report promptly to the Board any material change or proposed.
change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.
8. In the event of any change in control or ownership ofland or waste discharge facilities
presently owned or controlled by the Discharger, then the Discharger shall notify the
succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which
shall be forwarded to this office. ·
WASTE DI$CHARGE REQUlh.-.v1ENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
AMADOR COUNTY
.9. The.Dischargershall comply;with all.conditions of this Ot;der;>includingtin'lelysubmittal
oftec;lmical.and: 11\onitorihg .reports as: dil'ected hythe Executive.Officer. Violations may
result in enforcement action,inaluding Regiomil Board or court orders requiring
cmTective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this
Order.
10. A copy ofthis Order shall be kept at the discharge facility, for reference by operating
persmmel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents ..
11. The BoardwiUreviewthis Order periodically and tnayTevise reqniretnents when
necessary.
I, GARY M. CARL TON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the fotegoing is afull, tr'ue,· and
cmTect copy of an Order adopted by the Califomia Regio · I Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 26 January 2001.
,,;-,,
Attachments
ASB:26January 2001
. ' .. ~
.•
.......
~ ... · ~-
~t-·
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-01-033
FOR
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATERAGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY
This Monitoring and Repmiing Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring domestic
wastewater, groundwater, surface water, and biosolids .. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code
Section 13267. The Discharger shall not implement any changes to.this MRP unless and until a
revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer. Specific sample station locations shall be approved by
Regional Board staff prior to implementation of sampling activities.
All samples should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of material
sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of
custody form.
INFLUENT MONITORING
Samples shall be collected at the same frequency and at approximately the same time as effluent
samples and should be representative of the influent at the headworks prior to treatment Influent
monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Constituents Units Type ·of Sample Sampling Reporting
Frequency Frequency
Flow gallons Continuous Daily Monthly
BODs1 mg/1 Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Suspended mg/1 Grab Quarterly Quarterly Solids
1 BODs denotes five-day, 20° Celsius Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
EFFLUENT MONITORING
Effluent samples shall be collected downstream from the last connection through which wastes can be
admitted to the storage pond. Grab samples are considered adequately composited to represent the
· effluent. Effluent monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
MONITORING AND REPORTING t'ROGRAM NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATERAGENCY .
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY
· Constituents Units !YPe o,f Sample •• '.
Total Chloi-ine Residual mg/1 Grab
BODs1 mg/1 Grab
Total Settleable Solids mlll•Iu· Grab
Total Coliform Organisms2 . MPN/100 ml Grab
Total Suspended Solids.' mg/1 Grab
Total Dissolved Solids mg/1 Grab
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/1 Grab
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/1 Grab Sampling
Frequency
Daily
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
I . , . . . . . . . . . . . ,· 'BOD5 denotes five-day, 20° Celsms Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
2 Using a minimum of 15 tubes or tlu·ee dilutions
SPRAYFIELD MONITORING -2-
Reporting
Frequency
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly.·
Mo11thly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Inspections of the spray disposal,area shall be conducted daily (during operation) and th~ results shall
be included in the monthly monitoring repmi. Evidence of erosion, fie/;d saturation, runoff, or the
presence of nuisance conditions shall be noted in the report. Reclaimed water shall also be monitored
to ascertain loading rates at the disposal area. Monitoring of the disposal fields shall include the
following:·
Constituent Units Type of Sample Sampling Reporting
Frequency Frequency
Flow gallons Continuous Daily Monthly
Rainfall Inches Measurement Daily Monthly
Acreage Applied1 Ac~es Calculated Daily Monthly
Application Rate gal/acre/ day Calculated Daily Monthly
Total Nitrogen lbs/month Calculated Monthly Monthly
Total Dissolved lbs/month Calculated Monthly Monthly
Solids
1 Sprayflelds shall be identified
:-.. ·.
MONITORING AND REPORTINL i<.OGRAM NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY
POND MONITORING -3-
Samples shall be collected from an established sampling station located in an area tliat will provide a
sample representative of the wastewater in the aerated pond, settling ponds, and storage reservoir.
Freeboard will be measured vertically from the surface of the storage reservoir to the lowest elevation
of the suiTounding be1m and shall be measured to the nearest 0.25 feet. Monitoring of all four ponds
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Constituent Units Type of Sample Sampling Reporting
Frequency Frequency
Freeboard1 Feet Measurement Semi-weekl/ Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen mg/1 Grab Weekly Monthly
PH pH units Grab Weekly Monthly
Storage reservoir only.
2Semi-weekly shall mean twice per week.
GROUNDWATER MONITORING
Prior to construction of any groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and
specifications to the Board for review and approval. Once installed, all new wells shall be added to the
MRP, and shall be sampled and analyzed according to the schedule below.
Prior to sampling groundwater elevations shall be measured and the wells shall be purged at least three
well volumes until pH and electrical conductivity have stabilized. Depth to groundwater shall be
measured to the nearest 0.01 feet. Water table elevations shall be calculated and used to determine
. groundwater gradient and direction of flow. Samples shall be collected using approved EPA methods.
Groundwater monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Constituent Units
Groundwater elevation Feet
pH S.U.
Total Dissolved Solids mg/1
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/1
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/1
Ammonia as Nitrogen mg/1
Total Coliform Organisms1 MPN/lOOml
Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions
2Beginning with the third quarter 2003. Type of Sample
Measurement
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab Sampling and Rtorting
· Frequenc
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
MONITORING AND REPORTING 1'ROGRAM NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY
SURFACE \VATERMONITORING -4-
The following surface water monitoring program shall apply o111Y wh~h visible wate1: is present in the · ..
surfaqe watercourse or either diversion ditch. As shown on Attachment B, the Discharger shall .. , ·
establish four sam]? ling stations: one. station (S·J) shall be 100 feet upstream o(the easternmost storage
reservoir and spray fieid, one station (S-:-2) shail be at the North diversion ditch just prior to its ·
discharge into the surface watercourse, one station (S-3) shall be at the South diversion ditch just prior
to its discharge into the s4rface watercourse, and OIJ.e station (S-4) shall be on the surface WEJ,ter,course
at the downstream·property boundary.· San1ples of the surface water shall be analyzed for the
follo~ing:
'· Type of Sampling and Reporting
Constituent Units Sample Frequency
Total Dissolved Solids mg/1 Grab Monthly·
Total Colifonn Organisms1 MPN/100ml Giab Mbnthly
Total Fecal Organisms1 MPN/1 00 ml Grab Monthly
1 Using a niinimum of 15 tubes ~r thre~ dilutions.
BIOSOLIDS MONITORING·
The Discharger shall keeprecords regarding the quantity ofbiosolids generated by the tr~atment
processes; any sampling and analytical data; the quantity ofbiosolids stored on site; andthequantity
removed for disposaL .. The recotdsshallalso indicate that steps taken to reduce odor and other
nuisance conditions. Records shall be stored onsite and available tot' review duringinspectio .. n~. , , . . . ' - - _,·, ''
. . '
lfbiosolids are transported off-site for disposal, then the Discharger shall submit records identifying
the haulingcompany, the amount ofbiosolids transported, the date removed from the facility, the
location of disposal, and copies of all analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. If
biosolids are disposed of onsite, then the Discharger shall submit the annual report information:as · ·
contained in the Statewide General Order for the Discharge ofBiosolids (Water Quality Order No.
2000-10-DW,Q) (or any subsequent document which replaces Order No~ 2000-10-DWQ) ..
All records shall be submitted as part of the Annual Monitoring Report.
COLLECTION SYSTEM AND PUMP STATION MONITORING
'I,·.' ''
,.
The Discharger shall monitor the collection system and pump stations on its property .ori a monthly . ;::·,.
basis for pipe anm;nalies, cracks, overflows, or leaks. In addition, the Discharger shall also report on ,;::·· ,•
MONITORING AND REPORTlNL ~-{OGRAM NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY -5-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY
the operational status of the pump station pumps, alm111 systems, and any emergency or backup
equipment that is used to prevent the loss of control of waste from the collection system. This
infom1ation shall be submitted in the monthly reports.
REPORTING
In repmiing monitoring data, the Discharger shallarTange the data in tabular fom1 so that the date,
sample type (e.g., effluent, pond, etc.), and reported analytical result for each sample are readily
discemible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly illustrate compliance with waste
discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable. The results of any monitoring
done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program
shall be repmied to the Regional Board.
As required by the Califomia Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, all
Groundwater Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct supervision of a Registered
Engineer or Geologist and signed by the registered professional.
A. Monthly Monitoring Reports
Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board on the 1st day of the second month
following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 March). At a minimum, the reports shall
include:
1. Results of influent, effluent, pond, sprayfield, collection system, and surface water
monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications and llil explanation of any
violation of those requirements. Data shall be presented in tabular format.
3. A statement describing conditions around the treatment ponds and storage reservoir relative to
the a111ount of vegetation.
4. If requested by staff copies oflaboratory analytical report(s).
B. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
The Discharger shall establish a quarterly sampling schedule for groundwater and influent monitoring
such that samples are obtained approximately every three months. Quarterly monitoring reports shall
be submitted to the Board by the 1st day of the second month after the quarter (i.e. the January­
March quarter is due by May 1 51) each year. The Quarterly Report shall include the following:
1. Results of groundwater and influent monitoring. The results of regular monthly monitoring
reports for March, June, September and December may be incorporated into their
corresponding quarterly monitoring report.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY j
-6-
2. Anarn1tive descdption of all preparatory; monitoring, sampling, and analytical testing
activities. The natTative shall b~ sufficiently detailed to verify complhmce .with the WDR, ·
this MRP, and the Standard Provisions and Reporth1g Requirements. The tiaNative ·shall be
supported by field logs for each well documenting depth to groundwater; parameters
measured before, during, and after purging; method of purging; calculation of casing volume;
and total volume of water purged;
3. Calculation of groundwater elevations, an assessment of groundwater flow direction and
gradient on the date of measurement, comparison of previous flow direction and gradient
data, and discussion of seasqnal trends if any;
4. Ananative discussion of the analytical results, for all media and locations monitored
including spatial and temporal tends, with reference to summary data tables, graphs, and
appended analytical reports (as applicable);
5~ A cori1pariso11 ofmonitoring data: to the groundwater lhnitations and an exp1anation of any
violation of those requirements;
6. Summa1y data tables of historical and current water table elevations and analytical results;
7. A scaled map showing relevai1t structures mid features ofthe facility, the locations of
monitoring wells m1d any other sampling stations, and groundwater elevation contours
referenced to mean sea level datum;
8. Copies oflaboratory analytical report(s) for groundwater monitoring.
C. · Annual Report
An Annual Report shall be prepared as the fourth quarter monitoring report. The Annual Report will
include all monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly schedule. The Annual Report shall be
submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February each year. In addition to the data normally presented,
the Annual Report shall include the following:
i. The contents of the regular quarterly monitoring report for the last quarter of the year.
2. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the year;
3. An evaluation of the performance of the domestic wastewater treatment system, as well as a
forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year;
4. An evaluation .of the groundwater quality beneath the wastewater treatment facility.
5. A discussion of compliance and the conective action taken, as well as any pla~med or
proposed actions nyeded to bring the discharge into full compliance \Vith the waste discharge f5
requirements. n:•:·
MONITORING AND REPORTING .J)GRAM NO. 5-01-033
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
AMADOR COUNTY
6. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring
system or reporting program.
7. Summary ofinfonnation on the disposal ofbiosolids as described in the "Biosolids
Monitoring" section. -7-
8. Ifbiosolids were disposed onsite, then the annual report infom1ation as contained in the
Statewide General Order for the Discharge of Biosolids (Water Quality Order No. 2000-10-
DWQ) (or any subsequent document which replaces Order No. 2000-1 0-DWQ);
9. Whether the Discharger anticipates removing biosolids in the coming year, and if so, the
anticipated schedule for cleaning, drying, and disposal;
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.
Ordered by:
26 January 2001
(Date)
ASB: 1126/01
,;,
!,
' ~ '
. . h
·.;.·:
~
~~ ~
~· -
,·
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUU<.~l\'IENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-033
Drawing Reference:
United States Department of the
Interior Geological Survey
lone 7.5' Quadrangle
Section 26; T5N, R9E, MDB&B SITE PLAN
AMADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS
AGENCY, CSA #3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
AMADOR COUNTY ATTACHMENT A
N
W~E
,.
:..··-
1 in= 1333 ft
···.
..
. '"'·
·, l._; )'
., .. ·
,·'. ·. ,.
.. ,. ;''~: '
:, .....
:;rt•
;~.=~· .. ~ i·-
' ,.
'i
i
Waste Discharae Requirements Order No. 5-0 l-033 Attachment B
,~.' .. -. ~ ...• N A
:;., ~"'!· ~ ,_I'
: ~ ', -----------._ ..
----.lit
----- -~~ !M#ii\1!
# .... ....
~~~~
.~~
I
I
I
I
I
I ,.'
. ,."'
,."'
,."'
,."'
I
I
I ~ ~~
s ~ ~ ·~~
~ ~~-
1 P<operty Line _ ~ ~ ~ -~ I
... ...... ------ .... -"'~~~~(f{~··"· <ZWZ%$!'2~~.t~
Amador County Public Works Agency
Lake Camanche Village
Amador County
·-.-··-·: .. ~_ ... ·.·,, --~· ,._, ·~--~·~-:·-.. . ~-· -.. _. ; ~ 0 , 0 T.- '- : ', ~ ~ :-•• To < o ',, < •, '' , ••• '. ·.' - - •• - .-••• ,. --:. ~ ._- • > ' • :. ' " ••• ••
' ... ~: ,.
: f
I;: t
California Regional Water Quality Control Board
Central Valley Region
Robert Schneider, Chair
Winston H. Hickox
Secretary for
Environmental
Protection Sacramento Main Office
Intcmet Address: http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5
34-\3 Routier Road, Suit~ A, Sacramento, Culifomia 95827-3003
Phone (916) 255-3000 • FAX (916) 255-3015
'VASTE DISCHARGE.REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-033
ATTACHMENT C
ITEMS TO BE INCLUDED IN A
MONITORING 'VELL INSTALLATION WORKPLAN AND A
MONITORING 'VELL INSTALLATION REPORT OF RESULTS Gray Davis
Governor
Prior to installation of grmmdwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit a workplan containing
the minimum listed infom1ation. Wells may be installed after staff approve the workplan. Upon
installation of the monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit a rep01i of results, as described below.
All workplans and reports must be signed by a registered geologist, or certified engineering geologist.
Monitoring "'ell Installation 'Vorkplan
A. General Infom1ation:
Monitoring well locations and rationale
Survey details
Equipment decontamination procedures
Health and safety plan
Topographic map showing any existing monitoring wells, proposed wells, waste handling
facilities, utilities, and other major physical and man-made features.
B. Drilling Details: describe drilling and logging methods
C. Monitoring Well Design:
Casing dian1eter
Borehole diameter
Depth of surface seal
Well construction materials
Diagram ofwell construction
" Type ofwell cap
Size of perforations and rationale
Grain size of sand pack and rationale
Thickness and position ofbentonite seal and sand pack
Depth of well, length and position of perforated interval
D. Well Development:
Method of development to be used
Method of determining when development is complete
Method of development water disposal
California Environmental Protection Agency
y Recycled Paper
The energy challenge facing California is real. Every Californian needs to take immediate action to reduce energy consumption.
For a list of simple ways you can reduce demand and cut your energy costs, see our Web-site at http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcbS
Monitoring Well Installation Wotkplan: ·
Monitoring Weil Installation Report .
E. Surveying Details: discuss ~1ow each well will be surveyed to a common reference point
F. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Cuttings disposal method
Analyses to be rw1 and methods _ . . _
Sample bollection ~ul.d p'te'servatioti fnethbd · · _ ·· ·· ,.,_ '' '· · · ., '"'' ,,. ·
Intervals at which soil samples are' to be collected
Number of soil samples to be analyzed and rationale
Location of soil samples and ·t'atioiutle · ·
QNQC ptocedures · ··
G. Well Sampling:
Minhi1um time aftei' developtt1erit befot~ sampling (4S hou_rs)·
Well purging rti.ethbd it'ld amouht of purge water· .
·-·. Sample collectioii and preservritiorl'inetHod
· QAJQC procedures ·
H. Water Level Measurement: . ~ 2 ~
·.j:r'
The elevation reference point at each monitoring well shall bewrthiti'6.0l'f6ot .G~ound ·· ·
sw-face elevation at each monitoring well shall be within 0.1 foot. Method 'and time of water
level measurement shall be specified. · · :: ·
I. Proposed time schedule for work.
-Monitoring Well Installation Report of Results
A. Well Construction: '
,.· Number and depth of wells drilled
Date(s) wells drilled
Description of drilling and construction
Approxirp.ate locations relative to facility site(s) . · .·· :,· .. '
A well construction diagram for each well niust be included in the report; and should contain
the following details: ' · ·
·Total depth drilled · y , , · · • · · '
Depth of open hole (same as total depth drilled if no caving occurs)
Footage of hole collapsed · -· ' -'' '' ., ·
Length of slotted casing install.ed · · · · · .
Depth of bottom of casing
Depth to top of sand pack·
Thickness of sand pack
Depth to top of bentonite seal
Thickness of bentonite seal
Thickness of concrete grout ·
· Boring diameter
Casing diameter.
Casing materia~ . .. ,,. · .. ,
. ,.(. .. \ ..
f; I •
.. ~ .
J ..
.:.··
,:. \ •···•·
·r:._, ·,
Monitoring Well Installation Vv 01:kplan
Monitoring Well Installation Report
Size ofperforalions
Number ofbags of sand
Well elevation at top of casing
Depth to ground water
Date ofwater level measurement
Monitoring well number
Date drilled
Location
B. Well Development:
Date(s) of development of each well
Method of development
Volume of water purged from well
How well development completion was detem1ined
Method of effluent disposal
Field notes from well development should be included in report.
C. Well Surveying: provide reference elevations for each well and surveyor's notes
D. Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling
How well was purged
How many well volumes purged
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization
Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Water level elevation(s)
Groundwater contour map
E. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Date(s) of sampling
Sample collection, handling, and preservation method
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets -3-
·. i
. !
i j ~ ! ' .' ' : ,i -I ' .
'i...! ';.;" . ' '
·~·· 'jr 'i'' . . .
",•, '!
' ' ' ' ' ,'; l ~ i
. ' ',f . ' ~ ' . ~ ..
~·' ~·
~
~
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. 5-01-033
AI\·1ADOR COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY
AMADOR COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 3
LAKE CAMANCHE VILLAGE WWTP
AMADOR COUNTY
Lake Camanche Village is about eight miles south of the City of lone on the north side of
Lake Camanche Reservoir in Amador County. The residential community is cmTently
approaching 60% of build out and a 3.5% growth.rate is predicted over the next ten years.
The treatment plant consists of an aerated facultative pond, two settling basins,
chlorination facilities including a chlorine contact channel, an unlined storage reservoir,
and an effluent spray irrigation system. The Discharger has not removed sludge from the
aerated facultative pond in 25 years. The sludge has accumulated to a depth of
approximately five feet and is impacting the treatment capacity of the pond.
The storage reservoir and disposal field are undersized. The water balance submitted by
the Discharger shows that the storage reservoir has insufficient. capacity for all flows
from seasonal precipitation using a 1 00-year return period. The storage reservoir has a
history of overflows. In the past, the Discharger has even sand bagged the spillway to
increase storage capacity in an effort to prevent additional spills.
In addition, over-application of wastewater to the spray field has created saturated soil
conditions and excessive tailwater runoff. The storage reservoir is equipped with two
diversion ditches; however, only the South ditch has a valve for directing flow. When
irrigating, the valve is opened and tail water runoff is directed into the storage reservoir.
During rain events, the valve is closed and storm water runoff is allowed to flow past the
storage reservoir and is discharged into the unnamed surface watercourse below the
reservoir. However, the North ditch does not have a valve to direct flow, and excessive
irrigation can lead to runoff entering the nearby surface watercourse. An August 2000
staff inspection found this type of discharge.
The collection system also has a history of sewage overflows and suffers :from high
infiltration flows during the wet season. Furthermore, staff inspections found that the lift
stations lacked adequate safeguardsto prevent spills and had a record of poor
maintenance. On 13 October 2000, the Executive Officer issued Administrative Civil
Liability Complaint No. 5-00-526 to the Discharger for repeated sewage overflows from
lift stations operated by the County of Amador, including lift stations at Lake Camanche
.Village.
Tl1e Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) has been expanded from the previous
Order to include surface water and groundwater monitoring. In order to comply with the
MRP, the Discharger is required to install groundwater monitoring wells.
Due to the Dischargers inability to comply with the WDRs, Cease and Desist Order No.
5-01-034 was adopted concurrently with these WDRs.
1/04/00: ASB -...... ~ : .•
.!