FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Locations and Service Areas . EBDA is comprised of five member agencies:
the City of Hayward, Oro Loma Sanitary District, Castro Valley Sa nitary District,
City of San Leandro, and Union Sanitary District. The member agencies convey
treated wastewater to the Marina Dechlorination Facility, located at 14150
Monarch Bay Drive in San Leandro. LAVWMA and its member agencies, the
Dublin San Ramon Services District , the City of Livermore, and the City of
Pleasanton, also convey wastewater to the Marina Dechlorination Facility.
Attachment B shows a map of the EBDA and LAVWMA member agency
facilities.
2.1.1.1. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. The City of Hayward
Water Pollution Control Facility is located at 3700 Enterprise Avenue in
Hayward. It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and
industrial wastewater for the City of Haywa rd, serving a population of about
160,000.
2.1.1.2. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant . The City of San
Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant is located at 3000 Davis Street in San
Leandro. It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commer cial, and
industrial wastewater for the northern portion of the City of San Leandro,
serving a population of about 60,000.
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2 -2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES Permit CA0037869
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-72.1.1.3. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control
Plant . The Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Distric ts jointly own a
wastewater treatment plant located at 2600 Grant Avenue in San Lorenzo. It
provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial
wastewater for the communities of San Lorenzo, Ashland, Cherryland,
Fairview, Castro Valley , and portions of the cities of San Leandro and
Hayward, serving a population of about 192,000.
2.1.1.4. Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant . The
Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant is located at
5072 Benson Road. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of Fremont, Newark, and
Union City, serving a population of about 356,800.
2.1.1.5. LAVWM A Export and Storage Facilities . The LAVWMA Export and
Storage Facilities begin at 7176 Johnson Drive in Pleasanton and extend
west to San Leandro . They receive, export, and store secondary treated
domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater from the c ities of Dublin,
Livermore, and Pleasanton, serving a population of about 320,600. LAVWMA
wastewater also contains reverse osmosis reject water from the Zone 7
Water Agency that is mixed with the Dublin San Ramon Services District’s
final effluent. This re ject water results from the Zone 7 Water Agency’s
Demineralization and Brine Disposal Project, which removes salts from
groundwater in the Zone 7 Water Agency’s jurisdiction.
2.1.2. Collection System s
2.1.2.1. City of Hayward. The City of Hayward collection system conveys
wastewater to the City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. It is a
separate sewer system comprised of approximately 325 miles of
publicly -owned pipes and 9 lift stations.
2.1.2.2. City of San Leandro . The City of San Leandro collection system conveys
wastewater to the City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. It is a
separate sewer system comprised of approximately 130 miles of
publicly -owned pipes and 13 lift stations.
2.1.2.3. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sani tary Districts . The Oro Loma Sanitary
District collection system conveys wastewater to the Oro Loma and Castro
Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control Plant. It is a separate sewer
system comprised of approximately 272 miles of publicly -owned pip es and
14 lift stations. The Castro Valley Sanitary District collection system also
conveys wastewater to the Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts
Water Pollution Control Plant. It is a separate sewer system comprised of
approximately 148 miles of publicly -owned pipes and 9 lift stations.
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2 -2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES Permit CA0037869
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-82.1.2.4. Union Sanitary District . The Union Sanitary District collection system
conveys wastewater to the Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater
Treatment Plant. It is a separate sewer system comprised of approximat ely
835 miles of publicly -owned pipes, 3 lift stations , and 4 pump stations.
2.1.2.5. LAVWMA . The collection systems serving LAVWMA are covered by NPDES
Permits CA0037613 and CA0038008.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . Attachment C provides treatment schematics for each
treatment plant.
2.1.3.1. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility . The City of Hayward
Water Pollution Control Facility can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 18.5 MGD. In 202 1, the aver age
daily dry weather influent flow was 10 .0 MGD. The treatment process
consists of comminution, grit removal, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, trickling filtration, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and chlorine disinfection. Th e plant also has 240 acres of out -of-
service oxidation ponds that can be used fo r emergency storage (e.g., during
peak wet weather).
2.1.3.2. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant . The City of San
Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant can provi de secondary treatment for
an average daily dry weather design flow of 7.6 MGD. In 202 1, the average
daily dry weather influent flow was 4. 3 MGD. The treatment process consists
of screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, flow equalization, trickling
filtration, activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and chlorine
disinfection. The plant also has five acres of out -of-service oxidation ponds
that can be used for emergency storage.
2.1.3.3. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control
Plant . The Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution
Control Plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 20.0 MGD. In 202 1, the average daily dry weather
influe nt flow was 1 1.2 MGD. The treatment process consists of screening,
grit removal, primary sedimentation, modified Ludzack -Ettigner nitrification
and denitrification, secondary clarification, and sodium hypochlorite
disinfection.
2.1.3.4. Raymond A. Boege Al varado Wastewater Treatment Plant . The
Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant can provide
secondary treatment for an average daily dry weather design flow of
33.0 MGD. In 202 1, the average daily dry weather influent flow was
22.0 MGD. The tre atment process consists of screening, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and
chlorine disinfection. During this Order term, the Discharger plans to
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2 -2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES Permit CA0037869
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-9implement wastewater treatment plant upgrades (s ee Fact Sheet
sectio n 2.6., Planned Changes).
Historically, Union Sanitary District discharged up to 5.0 MGD of treated
wastewater from this plant to Hayward Marsh through the EBDA pipeline but
Union Sanitary District intends to formally cease this discharge during this
Order term.
2.1.3.5. Marina Dechlorination Facility . The Marina Dechlorination Facility
dechlorinates treated and disinfected effluent from the EBDA and LAVWMA
member agencies using sodium bisulfite.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management
2.1.4.1. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility . Sludge at the City of
Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility is anaerobically digested,
dewatered in dewatering beds, and air dried for up to two years. The City
hauls dried biosolids to an authorized dis posal site for use as alternative daily
cover.
2.1.4.2. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant . Sludge at the City of
San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant is anaerobically digested,
dewatered using a belt filter press, and air dried. The Ci ty hauls dried
biosolids to an authorized disposal site or applies the biosolids to land as
Class A Exceptional Quality biosolids or Class B biosolids (as defined in
40 C.F.R. part 503 ) depending on available bed space .
2.1.4.3. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control
Plant . Sludge at the Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water
Pollution Control Plant is anaerobically digested, dewatered using a belt filter
press, and air dried in a solar drying facility for 3 to 18 months. The Districts
haul b iosolids to an authorized land application site.
2.1.4.4. Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant . Sludge at the
Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant is thickened,
anaerobically digested, and dewatered using centrifuges. The Union Sanitary
District hauls biosolids off -site for land application, composting, or used as
alternative daily cover for municipal landfill. Up to 30 percent of the biosolids
are composted offsite to make Class A Exceptio nal Quality biosolids (as
defined in 40 C.F.R. part 503 ).
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at each treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Stormwater does not interact with the Marina
Dechlorination Facility because all treatment units there and all chemicals
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2 -2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES Permit CA0037869
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-10associated with the facility are indoors. Therefore, no stormwater requirements
are necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . The Discharger plans to complete the following projects or
make the following operational changes during this Order term. These changes
are for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except
to the extent that they pertain to increasing or ensuring the reliability of wastewater
treatment or collection systems. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional
Water Board authorization. The Discharger must obtain a ny necessary permits or
permit modifications to implement these changes :
2.6.1. City of Hayward. The City of Hayward plans to replace its trickling filter with a
biological nutrient removal system that will treat half of the plant’s dry weather
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2 -2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES Permit CA0037869
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-16flow, upgrade the main switchboard that powers the older features of the plant ,
and install a new final clarifier.
2.6.2. City of San Leandro. The City is constructing a demonstration treatment
wetland that would accept up to 0. 95 MGD of its wastewater for polishing
treatment. The City of San Leandro also plans to install a second high -efficiency
turbo blower in its aeration basins, a high -strength waste receiving station, and
battery energy storage .
2.6.3. Oro Loma Sanitary Dis trict. The Oro Loma Sanitary District is planning a
digester replacement project and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
system and cybersecurity improvements .
2.6.4. Union Sanitary District . The Union Sanitary District is constructing a new
discharg e structure, flap gate, and pipeline , and new dechlorination equipment
to improv e its Old Alameda Creek outfall . Once completed , wet weather flows
above its contracted EBDA pipeline capacity will be discharged t hrough this
outfall under its wet weather discharge NPDES permit (CA0038733) .
By 2028, the Union Sanitary District plans to complete plant upgrades that will
enhance effluent quality by providing significant nitrogen removal
(approximately 50 percent tota l inorganic nitrogen removal and 90 percent total
ammonia removal on an average annual basis) and more reliable solids
removal. In addition, the District plans to replace aging facilities and may
provide up to 2.5 MG of wet weather storage by repurposing i ts existing
secondary clarifiers into equalization basins. The planned upgrades include the
following changes:
·Retrofitting existing aeration basins to operate with an anaerobic selector and
a biological nutrient removal process. This will include construc ting
deoxygenation, anoxic, and flexible aeration zones; installing internal recycle
pumps; and establishing new step -feed aeration and surface wasting
operations.
·Constructing new effluent facilities. This will include building new chlorination
and dechlo rination contact basins and a new effluent pump station, and
relocating the existing effluent force main.
·Constructing larger secondary clarifiers. This will include constructing four
160-foot diameter secondary clarifiers, a mixed liquor control box, and a
centralized return -activated sludge pump station.
·Retrofitting existing secondary clarifiers to operate as wet weather flow
equalization basins.
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2 -2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES Permit CA0037869
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-17In addition, the District is building a new, 2.4 million -gallon primary digester to
meet the plant’s current solids capacity.
The District also plans to increase its average daily dry weather flow capacity
from 33.0 MGD to 38.0 MGD. The upgrades necessary to increase its capacity
by the additional 5.0 MGD are unlikely to occur within this Order term; however,
like the previous order, this Order authorizes this change, subject to conditions
set forth in Provision 6.3.5.4 of this Order.
2.6.5. EBDA . EBDA plans to upgrade and refurbish effluent pumps and drivers at
several pump stations throughout its system and rep lace online monitoring at
the Marina Dechlorination Facility.
Additionally, EBDA may accept and discharge up to 2 MGD of brine composed
of mixed sea salts dissolved in San Francisco Bay water. The brine would come
from Cargill, an agribusiness that operates salt ponds in Newark for salt
production. Cargill’s Newark f acility takes in San Francisco Bay water and runs
it through a series of evaporation ponds to concentrate and recover two
commercial products, sodium chloride and magnesium chloride. In the process,
other salts crystallize, generating mixed sea salts, which accumulate in the
evaporation ponds . In anticipation of sea level rise, Cargill propos es to further
process mixed sea salts to recover additional commercial product s. The
remaining mixed sea salt brine would be blended with EBDA ’s effluent for
disposa l. This project would include the construction of a pipeline from the
Newark facility to the EBDA pipeline. If this project proceeds, EBDA plans to
occasionally and temporarily cease acceptance of Cargill brine for operational
reasons, such as during wet weather, to ensure that the EBDA pipeline retains
capacity for its member agencies. The brine discharge is expected to last 10 to
20 years.
3.