A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system to provi de
s
ewerage service to the City of Santa Barba ra and portions of Santa Barbara County, serving
a population of approximately 98,818 . Santa Barbara County retains ownership and direct
responsibility for wastewater collection and transport systems up to the point of discharge intointerceptors owned and operated by the City. The County of Santa Barbara owns five miles of
mainlines in Mission Canyon that is maintained by the City. The Central Coast Water Boar
d
r
egulat es the collection system under General Order No. 2006- 0003 -DWQ.
Secondary treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater consists of screeni ng and
gr
inding, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge stabilization,
secondary clarification, disinfection (with sodium hypochlorite) and dechlorination ( with
sodium bisulfite). Biosolids are processed by gravity thickening, dissolved air floatation
thickening, anaerobic digestion, and belt press dewatering. Dewatered solids are transported
off-site for disposal. In 2016, the City of Santa Barbara installed two high-density polyethyl ene
(
HDPE) 55 -gallon capacity in- line containers along with the chemical feed system to drai n
hy
pochlorite into the chlorine contact chamber to address the reporting issues associated wit h
c
hemical feed disruption.
Prior to the chlorine contact chamber, a portion of the secondary treated effluent is diverted to
a new
ly modified tertiary membrane filtration system. The secondary treated effluent is
pretreated before passing through the membrane filtration system. The membrane filt ration
s
ystem includes feed pumps, automatic strainers, microfiltration/ultrafiltration membranes,
and filtrate tank. After filtration, the effluent is chlorinated in a chlorine contact basin and used
for non- potable water reuse applications ( e.g. landscape irrigation, construction for dust
control and soil compaction, toilet flushing, and the Facility’s process water). This Ordercovers the production of the tertiary treated water for recycling. The distribution and use of
recycled water for irrigation ar e regulated separately by SWRCB General Water Reclamati
on
R
equirements for Recycled Water Use (currently Order No. 2016 -0068) .
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA
EL ESTERO WATER RESOURCE CENTER ORDER NO. R3-2 019-0 046
NPDES N O. CA0048143
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6The remaining secondary treated effluent goes through the disinfe ction and dechlorination
process prior to discharge to the Pacific Ocean . The design average dry weather flow
treatment capacity of the wastewater treatment system is 11 million gallons per day (MGD),
with a design peak flow of 19 MGD. The average influent flow from May 2010 to November
2018 was 7.53 MGD, and the average daily final effluent flow was 7. 44 MGD.
The City of Santa Barbara also owns a seawater desalination facility (Charles Meyer
Desalination Plant) . The desalination facility was operational for a short time in 1994;
however, it was placed in standby mode in 1996 and has been operational since 2017 to
address drought -related water supply shortages. Depending on the desalination facility’s
freshwater production rate, the following waste brine and other supplemental desalination
flows are discharged to the ocean outfall at flow rates that may range from 1.2 to 12.5 MGD
with and without mixing with El Estero secondary effluent:
•Brine resulting from the reverse osmosis desalination process operation .
•Treated filter backwash water, including dewatering of backwash and lime clarifier
solids. Backwash water is produced by the desalination facility’s granular medi a
f
iltration process, which removes naturally occurring solids and biological material
from the seawater before it is desalinated by the facility’s reverse osmosis process.
Ferric sulfate and polymer may be added to the influent seawater to assist in t he
r
emoval of the particulate matter by the granular media filtration process. U pon
bac
kwashing the filters, the backwash water is treated by a sedimentation process,
aided by more polymer addition, where the backwash solids are thickened int o a
s
ludge that is subsequently dewatered and disposed of at a landfill. Solids and
m
aintenance flows produced by the desalination facility’s lime treatment system are
also discharged to the backwash water treatment system where these solids and
f
lows are treated and dewatered with the filter backwash water. The treat ed
bac
kwash water is subsequently combined with discharges that flow to the oc ean
out
fall.
•Start -up and maintenance flows , off-spec treated seawater , and potable water may be
t
emporarily discharged to the ocean outfall during initial facility start -up, during or after
facility maintenance, or other ti mes w hen the desalination facility is not deliveri ng
pot
able water to the City’s customers. During such periods, the total maximum
discharge rate shall not exceed 12.5 MGD. Temporarily discharging such water doesnot constitute a “bypass” as defined in Att achment D of this Order. All lim its
 and
r
equirements, including monitoring, specified in this Order remain applicable duri ng
t
hese temporary discharges.
•Tank overflows and process water drains containing seawater, desalinated water , and
potable water are also combined with brine flows discharged to the ocean outfall.
The Discharger conducted a hydrodynamic analysis in 2014 ( updated in 2016 based upon the
final design) titled: Hydrodynamic Modeling of Brine Dilution and Dispersion from the El
Estero Wastewater Treatment Plant Outfall, Santa Barbara, CA . This study confirm s that the
waste brine and commingled brine/ secondary treated effluent discharges at the outfall will
satisfy NPDES permit requirements. The study also specifies that the present outfall design is capable of satisfying the initial dilution requirements under varying effluent flow rate
conditions , with the worse mixing conditions resulting from low flow and brine only (i.e., no
secondary effluent) discharge.
The Discharger constructed a brine disposal facility i n 2018 where brine originating from a
local water conditioning facility (Rayne of Santa Barbara , Inc. ) is trucked in and discharged
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA
EL ESTERO WATER RESOURCE CENTER ORDER NO. R3-2 019-0 046
NPDES N O. CA0048143
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7through the Facility’s existing outfall. This discharge is covered by the General Permit for
Discharges w ith Low Threat to Water Quality ( Order No. R3 -2017 -0042, CAG993001). During
the previous permit term, the Discharger also upgraded various components of the brine
discharge structure.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

P
lanned Changes
During the term of this Order, the Discharger plans to upgrade treatment processes and
r
elated infrastructure through a variety of projects. These projects include:
•Influent Flow Monitoring and Sampling Project ;
•Lift Station Rehabilitation Project ;
•Update O&M Manual and related SOP Project ;
•Concrete Repairs ;
•Solids/Biosolids Assessment Project ;
•El Estero Drainage Mitigation & Restoration Project ;
•Recycle Water Pasteurization Feasibility Project ; and
•Secondary Process System Improvement Project
The Secondary Process System Improvement Project has been implemented by the City to
achieve better performance of the secondary treatment system at the Facility. Major upgrades
will be made to multiple systems including the aeration system, secondary clarifier flow distribution, and return activated sludge/ waste activated sludge system. The project is
anticipated to be com pleted by 2019.
The El Estero Water Resource Center has increased the City capacity for self sufficient water
supplies through increased recycling and desalination. Additionally, the City has evaluated
the feasibility of future potable reuse. The alternatives that were evaluated in the Potable
CITY OF SANTA BARBARA
EL ESTERO WATER RESOURCE CENTER ORDER NO. R3-2 019-0 046
NPDES N O. CA0048143
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-16Reus e Feasibility Study will provide useful information for a future update to the City’s Long
Term Water Supply Plan and provide for increased mitigation to more frequent drought cycles
related to climate change.
III.