wastewater treat ment and disposal ponds (lined and unlined) shall be monitored as specified
below:

Constituent Units Sample Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Monthly Quarterly
Odors -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Berm condition -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
 mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids ( e.g., screenings, grit, sludge,
biosolids, etc .) generated at the wastewater system . Records shall include the name/contact
information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported, the date
removed from the wastewater system , the disposal facility name and address, and copies of
analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be submitted as
part of the a nnual monitoring report .

REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type ( e.g., effluent, solids , etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection result s
are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance with the
General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently
than required at the locations specified in the M RP shall be reported in the next regularly
scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5305 4
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA #30 – EL PORVENIR WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory documents,
submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be converted to a
searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are
less than 50MB should be emailed to: centralvalleyfresno@water boards.ca.gov . Documents that
are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate Regional Water
Board office, in this case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706. To ensure that your submittals are
routed to the appropriate staff, the following i nformation block should be included in any email
used to transmit documents to this office: Program: Non -15, WDID: 5 D100102001, Facility
Name: El Por venir WWTF, Place ID: 201073, Order -2014- 0153- DWQ -R5305.

A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly repor ts shall be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board on the first day of the
second month after the quarter ends ( e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is due by
May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s authorized
representative. At a minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:

1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, biochemical oxygen
demand