FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Fallbrook WRP serves approximately 23,000 residents, treating predominately
residential and commercial wastewater. The Discharger reports that no significant
industrial users (SIUs) discharge to the Fallbrook WRP .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Fallbrook WRP
All wastewater entering the Fallbrook WRP is subjected to full tertiary treatment
consisting of preliminary treatment by mechanical bar screening and aerated grit
remov al, primary sedimentation and scum removal, biological treatment using
activated sludge followed by secondary clarification, tertiary treatment consisting
of coagulation followed by single- media anthracite filter, and chlorine disinfection.
Dechlorination of chlorinated effluent is accomplished with sodium bisulfite
(NaHSO 3).
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal are washed and compacted prior to being hauled to a local landfill for disposal. Sludge from the secondary treatment processes at the Fallbrook WRP is aerobically digested,
then dewatered by a cent rifuge. Dewatered sludge is fed to a thermal dryer to
meet Class A biosolids requirements. Class A biosolids are utilized as fertilizer by local farmers. If the dryer is inoperative, dewatered sludge (Class B biosolids) is either sent to one of twelve dryi ng beds for a minimum of three months, or to
hauling containers for disposal. The Discharger contracts with Denali Solid Solutions for transporting Class B biosolids for land application in Yuma, Arizona.
During high flows or emergency operating or mainten ance periods, a 1.2- million -
gallon (MG) secondary effluent equalization basin is available for temporary
storage. When this volume is exceeded, secondary effluent is discharged to the
Fallbrook Public Utility District’s 16- inch-diameter land outfall (Fallbrook Land
Outfall) at rates not exceeding the hydraulic capacity of the Fallbrook Land Outfall
of 3.6 MGD . Additionally, the Fallbrook WRP has a 1.0- MG recycled water
storage basin.
The Discharger currently provides recycled water within its service area and through the Fallbrook Land Outfall to Caltrans in Oceanside. Recycled water

FALLBROOK PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R9-2019- 0169
FALLBROOK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0108031
SANTA MARGARITA GROUNDWATER TREATMENT PLANT


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 distributed from the Fallbrook WRP is regulated under separate WDRs, Order No.
91-391.
Treated effluent from the Fallbrook WRP not distributed as recycled water in the
Discharg er’s service area is dechlorinated with sodium bisulfate and discharged
to the Fallbrook Land Outfall , which conveys the effluent to the Oceanside Ocean
Outfall (OOO).
The Fallbrook WRP is sized to treat an average dry weather flow of 2.7 MGD and
a maximum wet weather flow of 3.6 MGD. In 2018 , the average influent flow to
the Fallbrook WRP was 1.43 MGD and the average effluent flow from the
Fallbrook WRP to the OOO was 0.64 MGD. From January 1, 2015 to December
31, 2016 FPUD sent an annual average of 79.17 MGD to reuse sites for irrigation
and 129.13 MGD to reuse sites for agriculture.
2. Santa Margarita GTP
The Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton (MCB Camp Pendleton), U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, and the Discharger are constructing and will operate a proposed Conjunctive Use Project. The project will
enhance groundwater recharge and r ecovery capacity within the Lower Santa
Margarita River Basin and develop a conjunctive use program that will increase
available water supplies for the benefit of Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton and the Discharger. The proposed project includes the const ruction and use of
facilities within MCB Camp Pendleton and the Discharger’s service area and within the boundaries of the Santa Margarita River watershed. The project will
capture additional surface runoff during high streamflow events in the Santa Margar ita River that currently flows out to the Pacific Ocean. This surface water
will be used to recharge groundwater through existing groundwater percolation
ponds and stored or “banked” in groundwater basins during wet years and used to augment water supplies during dry years, reducing reliance on imported water.
The proposed project includes a bidirectional pipeline to deliver water to the Discharger and provide MCB Camp Pendleton with an off -base water supply
during drier than normal conditions or emergency situations, and the proposed Santa Margarita GTP . Raw groundwater would be pumped from the aquifer and
conveyed to MCB Camp Pendleton’s water treatment plant (Advanced Water Treatment Plant at Haybarn Canyon) and through the bidirectional pipeline to the Santa Margarita GTP . Raw groundwater delivered to the Santa Margarita GTP is
expected to average 3,100 acre- feet per year and is not expected to exceed 800
acre-feet in any given month. However, total volumes of raw water deliveries to
FPUD will vary annual ly, depending upon multiple factors including, but not
limited to, precipitation, river surface flows, surface diversions, and environmental considerations. Treated imported water from the San Diego County Water

1 On May 20, 1991, the San Diego Water Board adopted Order No. 91- 39, Waste Discharge Requirements for
Fallbrook Public Utility District Plant Nos. 1 and 2 Reclamation Projects, San Diego County . Addendums to
Order No. 91- 39 were adopted on August 10, 1995, February 13, 1997, and August 13, 1997.

FALLBROOK PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R9-2019- 0169
FALLBROOK WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0108031
SANTA MARGARITA GROUNDWATER TREATMENT PLANT


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 Authority can also be delivered through the same bidirectional facility from the
Discharger to MCB Camp Pendleton, if and when needed.
The Santa Margarita GTP will be constructed on the same property as the
Fallbrook WRP. The FPUD WTP includes an equalization tank, pretreatment
oxidation with sodiu m hypochlorite, iron and manganese filters, sodium bisulfite
and anti -scalent to protect the reverse osmosis (RO) units, RO demineralization,
neutralization with sodium hydroxide, clearwell, sodium hypochlorite for primary disinfection, ammonia hydroxide t o form a chloramine residual in the pipeline.
The FPUD WTP will be connected to and controlled by the Discharger’s SCADA
system.
The iron and manganese filters are expected to remove 97% of the iron and
manganese in the system, reducing the effluent iron and manganese concentrations to below 0.3 milligrams/liter (mg/L) and 0.05 mg/L, respectively. Iron and manganese system reject streams will flow to reclaim tanks for solids
separation. The liquid will be decanted and returned to the start of the iron and
manganese filters for treatment. The remaining solids would be pumped to
existing sludge drying beds at the Fallbrook WRP. Decant from the drying beds will be pumped to the Discharger’s sewage collection system and the remaining
dry solids will be removed f or disposal at a landfill.
The feed water for the Santa Margarita GTP is expected to have relatively low
salinity based on water quality data from existing production wells in the Lower Santa Margarita River Basin. Therefore, to maximize the RO treatment process
efficiency and achieve a product water with a total dissolved solids (TDS) of 500 mg/L, approximately 49% of the effluent from the iron and manganese filters
bypasses the sodium bisulfite, anti -scalent, RO units, and sodium hydroxide, and
blends wi th the RO permeate upstream of the clearwell.
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the concentrated flows (i.e., brine waste )
from the RO unit would be discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the OOO, with a maximum flow of about 0.65 MGD and a TDS concentration of 6,567 mg/L.
In email s dated July 24 and 29, 2019, the Discharger stated that it plans to
discharge the brine waste to its Fallbrook WRP, chlorine contact basin wet well ,
after the reclaimed water pump station/storage, but before the effluent monitoring for the ocean outfall , however this is subject to change . The July 24 email also
states that the total flow from the Fallbrook WRP and Santa Margarita GTP to the
OOO will remain within the flow limitations contained in Order No. R9- 2012- 0004.
The maximum product water for the Santa Margarita GTP is estimated to be
about 8 MGD or 92% of the feed groundwater flow based on cumulative process recoveries in the system.
B. Discharg e Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As noted in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is proposing to construct the Santa Margarita GTP . The Discharger awarded the contract for construction of the
Santa Margarita GTP in July of 2019 . Construction is expected to take approximately
2 years and operations is expected to begin in July or August of 2021.
III.