FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The LAGWRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant is located at 4600 Colorado
Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. Attachment B shows the location of the Facility .
The LAGWRP currently receives wastewater from the cities of Glendale, Burbank,
Los Angeles, La Cañada Flintridge, and from Los Angeles Zoo. The wastewater is a
mixture of domestic and industrial wastewater that is pre -treated pursuant to 40 CFR
part 403. LAGWRP has a design capacity of 20 MGD and serves an estimated
population of 434,000 people .
CITY OF LOS ANGELE S ORDER R4-2022 -0343
LOS ANGELES -GLENDALE WATER RELCAMATION PLANT NPDES Number CA0053953
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 12/08/2022 F-5The LAGWRP is part of the City of Los Angeles’ integrated network of facilities,
known as the Hyperion Treatment System (HTS), which includes four treatment
plants. The three upstream treatment plants ( including Donald C. Tillman WRP, this
POTW ( LAGWRP ), and Burbank WRP) discharge biosolids, solids, and excess
flows via the HTS for downstream treatment at the Hyperion Water Reclamation
Plant (H WRP ).
2.1.2. The Discharger has undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for the HTS. Due to
the interconnectedness of this HTS, it is appropriate to formally evaluate local limits
for all treatment plants within the system at on ce so that the conditions throughout
the system can be considered. The most recent local limits evaluation was
submitted to the Los Angeles Water Board in September 2021, finding that the
existing limits were fully protective of the HTS. In accordance with 4 0 CFR
122.44(j)(2)(ii) , the Discharger is required to submit a written technical evaluation of
the need to revise local limits following the effective date of this Order. The Local
Limits Evaluations for this facility are conducted concurrently with the Local Limits
Evaluations for the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant and the Donald C. Tillman
Water Reclamation Plant.
2.1.3. Treatment at the LAGWRP consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and
grit removal) ; primary treatment (primary sedimentation and scum removal );
secondary treatment (activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and
denitrification (NDN) ); secondary sedimentation with coagulation ; tertiary treatment
(aqua cloth and deep bed sand filtration ); disinfection with ammonium hydroxide and
sodium hypochlorite ; and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite . Treated wastewater
discharged to the Los Angeles River is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered for
reuse is not dechlorinated .
2.1.4. Ammoni um hydroxide and sodium hypochlori te are added to the treated effluent
after tertiary treatment and prior to entering the chlorine contact tanks to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in pipes . Prior to
discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated e ffluent to remove residual
chlorine .
2.1.5. In 2006, t he Discharger constructed a biological nutrient removal system with
NDN in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The
system was completed and has been in operation since June 2007 .
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
Several physical alterations or additions to the Facility are proposed by the Permittee as
summarized in Table F -3 below .
CITY OF LOS ANGELE S ORDER R4-2022 -0343
LOS ANGELES -GLENDALE WATER RELCAMATION PLANT NPDES Number CA0053953
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 12/08/2022 F-9Table F -3. Summary of Capital Improvement Projects
Project Name Project Summary Start Date End Date
LAGWRP
Primary
Equalization
ImprovementThe primary processes currently do not incorporate
equalization. The LAGWRP Primary Effluent Equalization
Storage project is in the works to add an equalization
function to the Facility . This project will provide 5 MG of
storage capacity for the collection system, daily diurnal flow
attenuation, and treatment. October
2022July 2026
LAGWRP
Advanced
Water
Purification
Demonstration
FacilityThis project will provide a fully functional advanced water
purification demonstration facility (AWPDF) with a design
capacity of 65 gallons per minute. The AWPDF will consist
of ozone treatment followed by biological activated carbon
filtration, microfiltration, reverse osmosis, advanced
oxidation process with ultraviolet treatment and sodium
hypochlori te. The treated water is proposed to be used in
noninteractive and interactive water features, and a non-
flow-through splash pad “spring” for public recreation. January
2023March
2026
3.