FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area. The Facility serves about 26,60 0 people in the City of Sonoma,
unincorporated areas of Glen Ellen, Boyes Hot Springs, El Verano , and Agua
Caliente . It has a n average dry weather design capacity of 3.0 MGD and a wet
weather hyd raulic capacity of 16.0 MGD. The average dry weather influent flow
during the previous permit term was abo ut 2.1 MGD.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. Attachment C shows the flow diagram for the Facility .
The treatment process includes perforated plate screens, grit removal, aerated
equalization basins, aeration basins , secondary clarification, tertiary treatment
via cloth media disk filtration , chlorine gas disinfection, and dechlorination via
sulfur dioxide or sodium bisulfite. When influent flows exceed 16 MGD, flows
are routed to the Facility’s four equalization basins for temporary storage for
later treatment.
2.1.3. Sanitary Sewer System s. The Discharger owns and operate s its sanitary
sewer system , which includes 160 miles of sanitary sewer pipe and two pump
stations (including the length of lower laterals) . The collection system is covered
under the State Water Board Order WQ 2022 -0103 -DWQ (Statewide Waste
Discharge Requirements General Order for Sanitary Sewer Systems, effective
June 5, 2023 ).
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The solids handling process at the
Facility includes polymer injection , thicken ing, and sludge dewatering via a
screw press . The Discharger directs the s upernatant from the dewatering
process back to the headworks for treatment. All of t he Facility’s sludge
Sonoma Valley County Sanitation District Order R2 -2024-0027
SVCSD Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037800
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5(approximately 22 wet tons per year in 2023) is hauled offsite for treatment and
landfill disposal.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater collected on the Facility property is
directed to the headworks . Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements
are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger provides recycled waste water year -round to
30 users for agricultural irrigation, landscape irrigation, and habitat remediation
and enhancement, and some is trucked off site for dust control, fire suppression,
soil compaction, irrigation, etc. , under State Water Bo ard Orde r
WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW . The Discharger also provides recycled water to
Management Units 3 and 1 from Discharge Points 004 and 005 during the dry
season, typically in October, to maintain th e freshwater marshland and pond
waterfowl habitats, and distributes recycled water to Pond 7A (Discharge
Point 006) or a constructed mixing chamber in the Napa Sonoma Salt Marsh
(Discharge Point 007) for the restoration and enhancement of the habitats of
these saline ponds. The Discharger’s recycled water facilities include recycled
water storage ponds and approximately 20 miles of pipeline for recycled water
distribution. The volume of recycled water delivered to users from 2020 through
2023 ranged from 590 million to 1.2 billion gallons per year.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. The Discharger plans to complete the following projects
during this permit term. These changes are mentioned here for informational
purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that
they pertain to ensuring Facility reliabilit y. Nevertheless, th is Order authorizes
these projects . Even so, t he Discharger may need to obtain other necessary
permits or permit modifications to implement the se changes.
The Discharger is currently constructi ng its influent/effluent pumping and piping
upgrade project , with planned completion in Fall 2027. The project includes the
replacement and upgrade of seven influent and effluent pumps , and their
associated piping and equipment. The Discharger also plans to complete plans for
future dechlorination and disinfection practices due to its sul fur dioxide gas
(dechlorinating chemical) supplier stopping its distribution to the Discharger during
the previous order term. The Dis charger implemented temporary solutions during
the previous order term to prevent the discharge of chlorinated effluent to