Attachment B shows the area around the Facility.
2.1.2. Wastew ater Treatment. CMSA provides secondary treatment as described
below and as shown in the Process F low Diagram in Attachment C. Primary
treatment at CMSA includes chemical injection , screening, grit removal, and
primary clarification. After primary clarification, a portion of the wastewater is
routed to the high-rate trickling filters before the aeration basins , while the
remainder is routed directly from the primary clarifiers to the aeration basins.
From the aeration basins, the remaining treatment process consists of
secondary clarification, chlorine disinfection , and dechlorination with sodium
bisulfite .
During wet weather or plant upset , the treatment plant uses an onsite 7 MG
storage basin . Stored wastew ater is conveyed to chlorine disinfection units for
Central Marin Sanitation Agency Order R2 -2023-0006
Central Marin Sanitation Agency Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permi tCA00 38628
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5discharge or route d back to the headworks for re -treatment (if needed). During
wet weather periods, primary -treated wastewater abo ve 30 MGD is bypassed
around the biological treatment processes when necessary and blend ed with
the biologically -treated wastewater prior to disinfection.
2.1.3. Collection System. CMSA does not own any portion of the collection system. It
operates the force mains, the pump stations for Sanitary District No. 2 of Marin
County, and the wastewater collection system for the San Quentin Village
Sewer Maintenance District. All other port ions of the collection system are
owned, operated, and maintained by the collection system agencies that route
sewage to the treatment plant.
The San Rafael Sanitation District owns and operates about 143 miles of sewer
lines serving the central and south ern portion of the City of San Rafael. The
Ross Valley Sanitary District owns and operates about 205 miles of sewer lines
serving Larkspur and nearby unincorporated areas (Kentfield, Greenbrae,
Fairfax, Ross, and San Anselmo). Sanitary District No. 2 of Ma rin County owns
and operates about 48 miles of sewer lines serving the town of Corte Madera
and unincorporated areas of the Tiburon peninsula. The California Department
of Corrections and the San Quentin Village Sewer Maintenance District (County
of Marin) own and operate a sewer collection system that serve s San Quentin
Prison and San Quentin Village. The prison is less than one mile from the
treatment plant. The California Department of Corrections and the San Quentin
Village Sewer Maintenance District co llection systems contribute less than six
percent of the total average dry weather flow to the treatment plant.
This Order requires the three largest collection system agencies ( Ross Valley
Sanitary District, Sanitary District No. 2 of Marin County, and S an Rafael
Sanitation Distric t) to implement tasks to reduce infiltration into their collection
systems (Provisions 6.3.5.1) and CMSA to assist the collection system
agencies (Provision 6.3.5.2 ). With the exception of the collection system serving
San Quent in Prison and San Quentin Village, the collection systems are
covered by the statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary
Sewer Systems ( State Water Board Order s 2006 -0003 -DWQ and WQ -2013 -
0058 -EXEC , reissued as Order WQ 2022 -0103 -DWQ ).
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge processing at the treatment plant
includes rotary drum thickeners, anaerobic digesters, and dewatering
centrifuges. Biosolids are land applied at ranches in Solano County, used for
cover at landfill and recycl ing centers, or developed into fertilizer for agricultural
use.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. CMSA is covered under the State Water Board’s
General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Dischargers Associated with Industrial
Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS00000 1) for all parts of the treatment
plant where stormwater runoff is not directed to the plant headworks for
treatment. All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or wastewater at the
Central Marin Sanitation Agency Order R2 -2023-0006
Central Marin Sanitation Agency Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permi tCA00 38628
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6treatment plant and pump stations serving the treatment plant are coll ected and
directed to the headworks.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. When requested by the City of Larkspur, CMSA provides
about 2 million gallons of recycled water annually to Remillard Park Pond during
dry weather to provide habitat for native Western Pond Turtl es, a species of
special concern. CMSA constructed a truck filling station in December 2015 and
supplied an average of about 50,000 gallons of recycled water during the
previous two years for flush ing of sewer lines.
2.1.7.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrade s. CMSA plans to complete the following projects during this
permit term. These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only
and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to
ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclus ion here does not imply Regional Water
Board authorization. CMSA may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the se changes.
CMSA anticipates becoming fully energy self -sufficient and a regular energy
exporter by late 2023. In 2022, CMSA started operation and began
commissioning a newly installed 995 -kilowatt cogeneration system . CMSA also
began expanding its organic waste receiving program. CMSA is currently
energy self -sufficient several days per week and sells excess renewab le power
to Marin Clean Energy, the local electricity provider.
CMSA also plans to replace all three of its dewatering centrifuges during the
next permit term and to rehabilitate one of its secondary clarifier s in 2023.
CMSA rehabilitated the other secondary clarifiers during the previous permit
term.
2.2. Discharge Points and