existing facility and of the
discharge point. Latitude and longitude information can be obtained from a U.S.
Geological Survey quadrangle topograph ic map. Other maps may also contain
this information.
· Enter the Longitude of the entrance to the proposed/existing facility and of the
discharge point.
IV. REASON FOR FILING
NEW DISCHARGE OR FACILITY: A discharge or facility that is proposed but does
not now exist, or that does not yet have WDRs or an NPDES permit.
CHANGE IN DESIGN OR OPERATION: A material change in design or operation
from existing discharge requirements. Final determination of whether the reported
change is material will be made by the R WQCB.
CHANGE IN QUANTITY/TYPE OF DISCHARGE: A material change in
characteristics of the waste from existing discharge requirements. Final
determination of whether the reported change would have a significant effect will be
made by the RWQCB.
CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP/ OPERATOR: Change of legal owner of the facility.
Complete Parts I, III, and IV only and contact the RWQCB to determine if additional
information is required.
Form 200 (10/97) 5 WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS UPDATE OR NPDES PERMIT
REISSUANCE: WDRs must be updated periodically to reflect changing technology
standards and conditions. A new application is required to reissue an NPDES
permit which has expired.
OTHER: If there is a reason other than the ones listed, please describe the reason
on the space provided. (If more space is needed, attach a separate sheet.)
V. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA)
It should be emphasized that communication with the appropriate RWQCB staff is
vital before starting the CEQA documentation and is recommended before
completing this application. There are Basin Plan issues which may complicate the
CEQA effort, and RWQCB staff may be able to help in providing the needed
information to complete the CEQA documentation.
Name the Lead Agency responsible for completion of CE QA requirements for the
project, i.e., completion and certification of CEQA documentation.
Check YES or NO. Has a public agency determined that the proposed project is
exempt from CEQA? If the answer is YES, state the basis for the exemption and the
name o f the agency supplying the exemption on the space provided. (Remember
that, if extra space is needed, use an extra sheet of paper, but be sure to indicate
the attached sheet under Section VII. Other.)
Check YES or NO. Has the “Notice of Determination” been filed under CEQA? If
YES, give the date the notice was filed and enclose a copy of the Notice of
Determination and the Initial Study, Environmental Impact Report, or Negative
Declaration. If NO, check the box of the expected type of CEQA document for this
project, and include the expected date of completion using the timelines given under
CEQA. The date of completion should be taken as the date that the Notice of
Determination will be submitted. (If not known, write “Unknown”)
VI. OTHER REQUIRED INFORMATI ON
To be approved, your application MUST include a COMPLETE characterization of
the discharge. If the characterization is found to be incomplete, RWQCB staff will
contact you and request that additional specific information be submitted.
This application MUST be accompanied by a site map. A USGS 7.5’ Quadrangle
map or a street map, if more appropriate, is sufficient for most applications.
VII. OTHER
If any of the answers on your application form need further explanation, attach a
separate sheet. Please lis t any attachments with the titles and dates on the space
provided.
VIII. CERTIFICATION
Certification by the owner of the facility or the operator of the facility, if the operator
is different from the owner, is required. The appropriate person must sign the
application form.
Form 200 (10/97) 6 Acceptable signatures are:
1. for a corporation, a principal executive officer of at least the level of senior vice -
president;
2. for a partnership or individual (sole proprietorship), a general partner or the
proprietor;
3. for a governmental or public agency, either a principal executive officer or
ranking elected/appointed official.
Discharge Specific Information
In most cases, a request to supply additional discharge specific information will be sent
to you by a representative of the RWQCB. If the RWQCB determines that additional
discharge specific information is not needed to process your application, you will be so
notified.
Form 200 (10/ 97) 1 State of California
Regional Water Quality Control Board
APPLICATION/REPORT OF WASTE DISCHARGE
GENERAL INFORMATION FORM FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS OR NPDES PERMIT
I.FACILITY INFORMATION
A.FACILITY:
Na
me
Ad
dress
Ci
ty/County/State/Zip Code
Co
ntact Person
Tel
ephone Number Em
ail
B.FACILITY OWNER:
Na
me
Ad
dress
Ci
ty/State/Zip Code
Co
ntact Person
Tel
ephone Number Em
ail
Federal Tax ID
Ow
ner Type ( Mark one):
In
dividual Corporation Go
vernmental Agency Partnership
Other:
C.FACILITY OPERATOR (The agency or business, not the person) :
Na
me
Ad
dress
Ci
ty/State/Zip Code
Co
ntact Person
Tel
ephone Number Email
Op
erator Type ( Mark one):
In
dividual Corporation Go
vernmental Agency Partnership
Other:

Form 200 (10/97) 2 D.OWNER OF THE LAND
Name
Address
City/State/Zip Code
Contact Person
Telephone Number Email
Owner Type ( Mark one):
Individual Corporation Governmental Agency Partnership
Other:
E.ADDRESS WHERE LEGAL NOTICE MAY BE SERVED
Address
City/State/Zip Code
Contact Person
Telephone Number Email
F.BILLING ADDRESS
Address
City/State/Zip Code
Contact Person
Telephone Number Email
II.TYPE OF DISCHARGE
Chec k Type of Discharge(s) Described in this Application:
Waste Discharge to Land W
aste Discharge to Surface Water
Check all that apply:
Animal or Aquacultural Wastewater L
and Treatment Unit
Animal Waste Solids L
andfill ( see instructions )
Biosolids/Residual M
ining
Cooling Water S
torm Water
Domestic/ Municipal Wastewater S
urface Impoundment
Treatment and Disposal
Dredge Material Disposal W
aste Pile
Hazardous Waste ( see instructions ) W
astewater Reclamation
Industrial Process Wastewater O
ther, please describe
Form 200 (10/97) 3 III. LOCATION OF THE FACIL ITY
Describe the physical location of the facility:
1. Assessor’s Parcel Number(s)
Facility:
Discharge Point:
2. Latitude
Facility:
Discharge Point:
3. Longitude
Facility:
Discharge Point:
IV. REASON FOR FILING
Check all that apply:
New Discharge or Facility
Change in Design or Operation
Change in Quantity/Type of Discharge
Changes in Ownership/Operator (see instructions)
Waste Discharge Requirements Update or NPDES Permit Reissuance
Other:
V. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA)
Name of Lead Agency
Has a public agency determined that the proposed project is exempt from CEQA?
Yes No
If yes, state the basis for the exemption and the name of the agency supplying the
exemption on the line below:
Has a “Notice of Determination” been filed under CEQA?
Yes No
If Yes, enclose a copy of the CEQA document, Environmental Impact Report (EIR), or
Negative Declaration. If No, identify the expected type of CEQA document and
expected date of completion.
Expected CEQA Documents: EIR Negative Declaration
Expected CEQA Completion Date:
Form 200 (10/97) 4 VI.OTHER REQUIRED INFORMATION
Please provide a COMPLETE characterization of your discharge. A complete
characterization includes, but is not limited to, design and actual flows, a list of
constituents and the discharge concentration of each constituent, a list of other
appropriate waste discharge characteristics, a description and schematic drawing of all
treatment processes, a description of any Best Management Practices (BMPs) used,
and a description of disposal methods.
Also include a site map showing the location of the facility and, if you are submitting this
application for an NPDES permit, identify the surface water to which you propose to
discharge. Please try to limit your maps t o a scale of 1:24,000 (7.5' USGS Quadrangle)
or a street map, if more appropriate.
VII.OTHER
Attach additional sheets to explain any responses which need clarification. List
attachments with titles and dates below:
You will be notified by a representa tive of the RWQCB within 30 days of receipt of your
application. The notice will state if your application is complete or if there is additional
information you must submit to complete your Application/Report of Waste Discharge,
pursuant to Division 7, Sec tion 13260 of the California Water Code.
VIII.CERTIFICATION
"I certify under penalty of law that this document, including all attachments and
supplemental information, were prepared under my direction and supervision in
accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gathered
and evaluated the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons
who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting
false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment."
Print Name Title
Signature Date
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
Date Form 200
Received: Letter to
Discharger: Fee Amount
Received: Check #:
California Environmental Protection Agency
B
ill of Rights for Environmental Permit Applicants
California Environmental Protection Agency (Cal/EPA) recognizes that many complex
issues must be addressed when pursuing reforms of environmental permits and that
significant challenges remain. We have initiated reforms and intend to continue the effort to make environmental permitting more efficient, less costly, and to ensure that
those seeking permits receive timely responses from the boards and departments of the
Cal/EPA. To further this goal, Cal/EPA endorses the following precepts that form the basis of a permit applicant's "Bill of Rights."
1. Permit applicants have the right to assistance in understanding regulatory and permit requirements. All Cal/EPA programs maintain an Ombudsman to work
directly with applicants. Permit Assistance Centers located throughout California have permit specialists from all the State, regional, and local agencies to identify
permit requirements and assist in permit processing.
2. Permit applicants have the right to know the projected fees for review of
applications, how any costs will be determined and billed, and procedures for
resolving any disputes over fee billings.
3. Permit applicants have the right of access to complete and clearly written guidance documents that explain the regulatory requirements. Agencies must publish a list of
all information required in a permit application and of criteria used to determine
whether the submitted information is adequate.
4. Permit applicants have the right of timely completeness determinations for their
applications. In general, agencies notify the applicant within 30 days of any
deficiencies or determine that the application is complete. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and public hearing requests may require additional information.
5. Permit ap plicants have the right to know exactly how their applications are deficient
and what further information is needed to make their applications complete.
Pursuant to California Government code Section 65944, after an application is
accepted as complete, an agency may not request any new or additional information that was not specified in the original application.
6. Permit applicants have the right of a timely decision on their permit application. The agencies are required to establish time limits for permit re views.
7. Permit applicants have the right to appeal permit review time limits by statute or administratively that have been violated without good cause. For state environmental
agencies, appeals are made directly to the Cal/EPA Secretary or to a specific board.
For local environmental agencies, appeals are generally made to the local governing board or, under certain circumstances, to Cal/EPA. Through this appeal, applicants
may obtain a set date for a decision on their permit and, in some cases, a refund of
all application fees (ask boards and departments for details).
8. Permit applicants have the right to work with a single lead agency where multiple environmental approvals are needed. For multiple permits, all agency actions can be
consolidated under a lead agency. For site remediation, all applicable laws can be
administered through a single agency.
9. Permit applicants have the right to know who will be reviewing their application and the time required to complete the full review process.