existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section
15301 which applies to ongoing or existing projects

FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the terms and
conditions of this NOA and the General Order 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5253, with all attachments.

The Discharger will phase in wastewater treatment expansion as the influent flow increases during build
out. The initial P hase l, as it exist s today, consists of subsurface disposal from individual septic tanks to
two community leachfields. However, due to shallow groundwater and poor soil conditions Phase ll
(discharge > 33,000 gpd) purposes the installation of a recirculating sand filter (or equivalent) between
the sep tic tanks and leachfields, and P hase lll (discharge > 66,000 gpd) will involve the construction of
an advanced secondary packag e treatment plant with sufficient effluent quality to be used as reclaimed
water for possible golf course irrigation.

The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following appli cable setback requirements form Table 3, for which the
Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic
Well Flowing
Stream a Ephemeral Stream
Drainage b Property
Line Lake or
Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit,
Treatment System,
or Collection System e
150 ft. y
50 ft. C
50 ft.
5 ft. c, z
N/A
Leach Field f 100 ft. o, c 100 ft. c 50 ft. 5 ft. c N/A
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water elevation and
indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character, vegetation type, presence of litter or debris, or
other appropr iate means.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow -melt and does
not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface water. The drainage shall
be measured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark (described in “a” above). Irrigation canals
are not considered ephemeral streams drainage features. The ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging
surface water to groundwater) at the proposed wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K -1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addr esses equipment located below
ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
Ivan Gossage - 3 - 17 November 2017
Gold Mtn. CSD

f Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
o California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site-sp ecific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an increased
setback. See discussion in Well Standards.

y Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.6.
z Collection system to property line setback is not appl icable .

Failure to comply with the requirements in the documents could result in an enforcement action as
authorized by provisions of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than those described in
this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that described in this NOA, you
must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new operation.

The required annual fee specified in the annual billing from the State Water Board shall be paid until this
NOA is officially terminated. You must notify this office in writing if the discharge regulated by the
General Order ceases, so that we may terminate coverage and avoid unnecessary billing.

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All reg ulatory documents,
MRPs, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be converted to a
searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than
50MB should be emailed to:

centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov .

Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate regional
water board office, in this case 364 Knollcrest Dri ve, Suite 205, Redding, CA 96002.

To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following information block should
be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office:
Program: Non- 15 WDID: 5A321021001
Facility Name: Gold Mountain CSD Order: 2014- 0153 -DWQ -R5253
Please note that WDRs Order 96 -263 is proposed to be rescinded at the 1 /2 February 2018
meeting of the Central Valley Water Board. Upon rescission of your individual WDRs, coverage for
your facility under the General Order shall become applicable subject to this Notice of Applicability.

If you have any questions regarding submitting an updated report of waste discharge, making changes to
your permitted operations, compliance or enforcement please contact Ron S. Falkowski at (530) 224 -
3227, ron.falkowski@waterboards.ca.gov , or the footer address.

Original signed by Bryan Smith

(for) PAMELA C. CREEDON
Executive Officer

RSF: db

Attachments: Attachment A – Site Location Map
 Attachment B – Facility Map
 Technical Memorandum
 MRP Order 2014 -0153- R5253

cc (w/o enc.): Tim O’Brien , State Water Board, Sacramento
 Plumas County Environmental Health Department, Quincy
 Patrick Pulupa, SWRCB, Office of Chief Counsel, Sacramento
ORDER R5-2014 -0153- R5253
GOLD M OUNTAIN CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
PLUMAS COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT A - LOCATION MAP

 PROJECT LOCATION N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 LOCATION MAP

GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
PLUMAS COUNTY

ORDER WQ 2014 -0153- R5253
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT B – FACILITY MAP

DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 FACILITY MAP

GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
PLUMAS COUNTY
 Wind Song
Leachfield
N
Falling Waters
Leachfield
Proposed
expansion
Leachfield &
Monitoring
Wells



TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

TO: George Low, PG FROM: Ron Falkowski
 Senior Engineering Geologist Engineer ing Geologist


DATE: 17 November 2017 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski

SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR GOLD MOUNTAIN
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT , WDR ORDER 96-263, PLUMAS COUNTY

 I have reviewed the case file for Gold Mountain Community Services District (Gold Mtn.
CSD) and completed a site inspection on 22 August 2017 . The file documents and site
inspection confirms the general condition of the wastewater treatment system and
subsurface disposal fields . The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance documentation
and all treatment and collection infrastructure appears in good order.

 The average daily wastewater flow is less than 9 ,000 gallons per day . The treatment system
has a design capacity which is well above the discharge volume required by the existing
community .

Potential Threats to Water Quality

The wastewater treatment system is located southwe st of the main community of Portola.
The closest distance from the subsurface discharge fields (leachfields) to the nearest
property line is greater than 50 feet. The closest potable water well is greater t han 500 feet
from the leach fields . The closest surface water is greater than 500 feet from the leachfields .
A monitoring well network was installed at the site due to high groundwater, poor soil
conditions and its proximity to Middle Fork Feather River . Completion of the Nitrate Checklist
in Attachment 1 of Order 2014- 0153 -DWQ indicates the following flow and rationale:

A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow generally less than 9 ,000 gpd.

Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.

Monitoring Requirements

 To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, quarterly groundwater monitoring and annual inspections of the septic
tank. Quarterly monitoring will be reported by the first day of the second month after the
quarter ends (e.g. January -March report is due by May 1st). Annual monitoring will be
included with the fourth quarter monitoring.
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MONITORING A ND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5253

FOR

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
GOLD MOUNTAIN COMMUNITY SERVICE DISTRICT
PLUMAS COUNTY


This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater treatment system. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code section 13267. The
Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is
issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional Water Board) Executive Officer.

The State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) and Regional Water Boards are
transitioning to the paperless office system. In some regions, Dischargers will be directed to submit
reports (both technical and monitoring reports) to the State Water Board’s Electronic Content
Management (ECM) database via email in portable document format (pdf). The em ail address for the
ECM submittal is: centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov

Water Code section 13267 states, in part:

“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the reg ional board may require
that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or
discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any citizen or
domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge, waste
outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters within its region shall furnish,
under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional board
requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship
to the need for the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring
those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with
regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring
that person to provide the reports.”

Water Code section 13268 states, in part:

“(a) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports as
required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a statement of
compliance as required by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying any inform ation
provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in accordance with
subdivision (b).

(b)(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a regional board in accordance with
article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of chapter 5 for a violation of subdivision (a) in

MONITORING AND REPORTING P ROGRAM NO . 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5253 2
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
PLUMAS COUNTY



 an amount which shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which the
violation occurs.”

The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater system that is subject to the Notice of
Applicabi lity (NOA) of Water Quality Order 2014- 0153- DWQ. The reports are necessary to
ensure that the Discharger complies with the NOA and General Order. Pursuant to Water
Code section 13267, the Discharger shall implement this MRP and shall submit the monitoring
reports described herein.

All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled. The name of the sampler, sample type (grab or composite), time, date,
location, bottle type, and any preservative used for each sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form. The chain of custody form must also contain all custody
information including date, time, and to whom samples were relinquished. If composite
samples are collected, the basis for sampli ng (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by
Regional Water Board staff.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that they are used by a State Water Board California
Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program certified laboratory, or:

1. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are maintained and available for at least three years.

SEPTIC TANK MONITORING
Monitoring of septic ta nk shall include the following:
Parameter Units Sample
Type Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow Rate gpd Metered a Continuous Annually
 gpd denotes gallons per day.
a. Flow rate may be metered or estimated based on potable water supply meter readings or other
approved method.

Septic tanks shall be inspected and/or pumped at least as frequently as described below.
Inspections of sludge and scum depth are not required if the tanks are pumped at least
annually.

Parameter Units Measurement
Type Inspection/Reporting
Frequency
Sludge depth and scum thickness
in each compartment of each tank Feet Staff Gauge Annually
MONITORING AND REPORTING P ROGRAM NO . 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5253 3
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
PLUMAS COUNTY



 Parameter Units Measurement
Type Inspection/Reporting
Frequency
Distance between bottom of scum
layer and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Distance between top of sludge
layer and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Effluent filter condition
(if equipped, clean as needed) NA NA Annually
 NA denotes not applicable.

Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exists:
1. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one- third of the tank depth of the
first compartment.
2. The scum layer is within 3 inches of the outlet device.
3. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.

If a septic tank is pumped d uring the year, the pumping report shall be submitted with the
annual report. All pumping reports shall be submitted with the next regularly scheduled
monitoring report. At a minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of service, service
company na me, and service company license number.

SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL AREA
Subsurface disposal areas may be configured many different ways (e.g. traditional leach field,
pressure- dosed, drip system, mound/at grade, gravel less, etc.). In general, monitoring shall be
sufficient to determine if wastewater is evenly applied, the disposal area is not saturated,
burrowing animals and/or deep rooted plants are not present, and odors are not present.
Inspection of dosing pump controllers, automatic distribution valves, etc . is required to maintain
optimum treatment in the disposal area (and any sand or media filter if present). Monitoring
shall include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent Inspection
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Pump Controllers, Automatic Valves, etc. a Quarterly Quarterly
Nuisance Odor Condition Quarterly Quarterly
Saturated Soil Conditions b Quarterly Quarterly
Plant Growth c Quarterly Quarterly
Vectors or Animal Burrowing d Quarterly Quarterly
Seepage Pit Condition e Quarterly Quarterly
a. All pump controllers and automatic distribution valves shall be inspected for proper operation as
recommended by the manufacturer.
b. Inspect a disposal area for saturated conditions. If a mound system is used, inspect perimeter base
for signs of wastewater seepage or saturated soil conditions.
c. Shallow -rooted plants are generally desirable, deep- rooted plants such as trees shall be removed
as necessary .
d. Evidence of animals burrowing shall be immediately investiga ted and burrowing animal populations
controlled as necessary.
MONITORING AND REPORTING P ROGRAM NO . 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5253 4
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
PLUMAS COUNTY



 e. Seepage pits shall be inspected to ensure they are allowing wastewater to infiltrate as designed.
Visual inspection of the water level in the seepage pit is adequate.

SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING

The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids, etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the
name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported,
the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name and address, and
copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be
submitted as part of the annual monitoring report.

GROUNDWATER MONITORING
The Discharger shall collect and analyze g roundwater monitoring data from the current
monitoring network, wells MW1 , through MW 6, and proposed wells MW -7, MW -8 and MW -9
once the proposed expansion leachfield is completed. All g roundwater data shall be submitted
quarterly. Consistent with the Business and Professions Code, groundwater monitoring
reports, well construction workplans, etc. shall be prepared under the supervision of a
California licensed civil engineer or geologist. Prior to construction of any groundwater
monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and specifications to the Regional Water
Board’s staff for review and approval. Once installed, all monitoring wells designated as part of
the monitoring network shall be sampled and analyzed according to the schedule below.

The data from routine groundwater monitoring events shall be submitted quarterly. Analysis of
the data and groundwater flow directions shall be performed at least annually and shall be
perform ed under the supervision of a California licensed professional (as described above).
The Discharger may request a reduced monitoring and reporting schedule once adequate data
has been collected to characterize the site. (Typically two years of quarterly sampling is
required for adequate characterization.)

Prior to sampling, groundwater elevations shall be measured and the wells shall be purged of
at least three well volumes and until pH and electrical conductivity have stabilized. No- purge,
low-flow, or ot her sampling techniques are acceptable if they are described in an approved
Sampling and Analysis Plan. Depth to groundwater shall be measured to the nearest 0.01 feet.
Groundwater elevations shall be calculated. Samples shall be collected using approved
USEPA methods. Groundwater monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent Units Sample
Type Sampling/Reporting
Frequency c,d
Groundwater Elevation a 0.01 Feet Calculated Quarterly
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly
Gradient Feet/Feet Calculated Quarterly
Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly
pH Std. Units Grab Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Sodium mg/L Grab Quarterly
MONITORING AND REPORTING P ROGRAM NO . 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5253 5
GOLD MOUNTAIN CSD
PLUMAS COUNTY



 Constituent Units Sample
Type Sampling/Reporting
Frequency c,d
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms b MPN/100 mL Grab Quarterly
Zinc c mg/L Grab Quarterly
Phenol c mg/L Grab Quarterly
Formaldehyde c mg/L Grab Quarterly
 MPN/100 mL denotes most probable number per 100 mL sample. Std. Units denotes standard units. mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
a. Groundwater elevation shall be based on depth to water using a surveyed measuring point elevation on
the well and a surveyed reference elevation.
b. Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions.
c. Monitoring of the constituents zinc, phenol, and formaldehyde are required only when recreational
vehicles were allowed to discharge to the wastewater system in the previous 12 months.
Analysis of data by a California licensed professional is required at l east annually.

REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection
results are readily discernible. The d ata shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance
with the General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more
frequently than required at the locations specified in the MRP shall be reported in the next
regularly scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.

During the life of this General Order, the State Water Board or Regional Water Board may
require the Discharger to electronically submit monitoring reports using the State Water
Boar d’s California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) program Internet web site or
alternative database. Electronic submittal procedures will be provided when directed to begin
electronic submittals. Until directed to electronically submit monitoring reports, the Discharger
shall submit hard copy monitoring reports.

A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports

Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of the
second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is due by
May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s authorized
representative. At a minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:

1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, applicable