EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Gold Run Rest Area WWTF is owned and operated by Caltrans (hereafter “Discharger”) and is
located on Interstate 80 near the town of Gold Run in Placer County as shown on Attachment A,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. Gold Run Rest Area is
located in an area without a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, wastewater is
collected and treated on -site. The site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto
and is made part of this NOA by reference.
 The WWTF services east bound and westbound traffic that stop at the rest area. Wastewater is
generated from domestic use such as toilets and handwashing . Wastewater flows by gravity to two
21,300 gallon septic tanks, one installed for each the eastbound and westbound rest areas .
Currently, w astewater from the septic tank s is pumped either to a stabilization pond or to a
leachfield, which are both located on the westbound rest area property. Wastewater is discharged
to the leachfield during the winter months. E ffluent from the stabilization pond is chlorine
disinfected and discharged to a sprayfield for the remainder of the year. The Discharger proposes
to backfill the stabilization pond and decommission the leachfield and sprayfield.
FACILITY CHANGES
By the end of Fall 2018 , the Discharger plans to complete construc tion of a new wastewater
treatment system that consists of two lift stations with two grinder pumps each , a primary treatment
pond, and two disposal ponds. During constructio n, the stabilization pond may be used to up until
the new pond system is ready to accept wastewater or the rest stop facilities may be close d so that
no wastewater is generated.
A lift station with grinder pumps will be constructed for each the eastbound and westbound side of
the rest area. The septic tanks will remain in place and be used for emergency overflow protection
in case of pump failur e. Wastewater will gravity flow to the lift station s and the generated slurry will
be pumped to Pond 1 for treatment. Pond 1 serves as a n aeration treatment pond and will be lined
with a 60 -mil high density polyethylene (HDPE) liner. Treated wastewater will be conveyed by
gravity flow to either Pond 2 or 3 for disposal , which will occur via evaporation and percolation.
The side berms of Pond 2 and 3 will be lined with a 60- mil HDPE liner to prevent seepage and
maintain berm stability.
To characterize the depth to shallow groundwater and flow direction, t he Discharger installed five
groundwater monitoring wells (MW -1, MW -2, MW -5, MW -6, and MW -7) in March and November
2015 near t he proposed area of the new ponds . Based on available monitoring data, t he
downgradient direction of groundwater is to the northeast with a gradient of 0.036 feet per f oot.
Depth to groundwater ranged from 3 feet to 20 feet below ground surface and groundwater
elevations vary seasonally . On 23 April 2015, the Discharger sampled MW -1 and MW -2 to
determine

===PLANNED CHANGES===

