wastewat
er treatment and disposal.
d. The name
s and contact information of persons to contact regarding the
WRP for
 emergency and routine situations.
e. A statement certifying when the flow meter and ot her monitoring
instrument s and devices were last calibrated, include identification
of who perf
ormed the calibrations (S PRRs C.4).
f. A summary of information on the disposal of sludge/biosolids during the
calendar year. The summary should include annual production totals,
description of disposal methods, and result s of any
monitoring as required in Section B.5.
g. A copy of t
he Public Water System’s most recent Consumer Confidence
Report.
h. An evaluation of the WRP perf ormance, including discussion of capacity
issues, infiltration and inflow rates, nuisance conditions, and forecast of
flows anticipated in the following year (SPRRs E.4).
i. A discussion of compliance with WDRs R5-2019-0084 and
corrective actions taken, as we ll as any planned or proposed actions
needed t
o bring t he discharge int o compliance with the WDRs.
j. A st
atement of when the wastewater treatment system Operation
and Maint
enance Manual wa s last reviewed for adequac y and a
description of any changes made during t he year.
k. A discussion of any
 data gaps and potential deficiencies or
redundancie
s in t
he monitoring system or reporting program.
-11- MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2 019-0084
GUN
NER
 RANCH, INC. AND M ADER A COUNT Y SERVICE AREA #22C
GUNNER RANCH WASTE WATER RECLAMATION PLANT
M
ADER A COUNTY
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the f irst day of
the
month following satisfying Provision H.5 of O rder R5 -2019-0084.
I, PA
TRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer, do hereb y certify the f orgoing is a full, true
and correct copy of a Monitoring and Reporting Program issued by the California
Regional Water Qualit y Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 5 December 2019.
PATRI
CK PULUPA, Executive Officer

-12- MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019-0084
GUNNE R RANCH, INC. AND MADERA COUNTY SERVICE AREA
#22C GUNNE R RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADERA COUNTY
GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five- day biochemical oxygen demand at 20° C
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved so lids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least
eight aliquots over a 24 -hour period.
Daily Sample shall be collected every calendar day
1/Week Once per week.
2/Week Twice per week on non -consecutive days .
1/Month Once per calendar month
2/Month Twice per month during non -consecutive weeks .
1/Quarter Once per calendar quarter.
1/Year Once per year.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minera ls Alkalinity (as CaCO3), aluminum, bicarbonate (as CaCO3), boron,
calcium, carbonate (as CaCO3), chloride, ir on, magnesium,
manganese, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, sulfate, TDS, and
verification that the analysis is complete (i.e., anion/cation balance) .
Title 22 Metals A ntimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, cobalt, copper, lead,
mercury, molybdenum, silver, thallium, vanadium, and zinc. Samples
collected for metals shall be filtered with a 0.45 micron filter prior to
preservation, digestion, and analysis.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2019-0084
GUNNER RANCH INC. AND MADERA COUNTY SERVICE AREA
#22C GUNNER RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADERA COUNTY
INFORMATION SHEET
Back
ground
In 1994, Madera County first approved the Gunner Ranch West Specific Plan for
development of the Gunner Ranch Waster Master Planned Community (Development) in
Madera County. The Specific Plan called for construction of a Wastewater Reclamation
Plant (WRP) t o treat wastewater from the Development for beneficial reuse. A Report of
Waste Discharge (RWD) for construction of a new WRP with tertiary treatment and
disposal by a combination of percolation and irrigation of landscape and open areas was
first submitte d for the Development on 28 November 2005. On 17 August 2006 , after
submittal of additional information, Central Valley Water Board staff issued a letter
determining the RWD complete. According to the RWD , the WRP would be constructed
in phases to expand a s the Development grows. At build -out, the WRP w ill handle an
average dry weather flow of up to 1.5 million gallons per day (mgd). On 26 August 2009 ,
an amendment to the RWD was submitted for the WRP to include a n initial phase
(Phase 1 A) to handle flows u p to 0.21 mgd during start-up of the Development.
Construction on the WRP was delayed due to issues arising from the Environmental
Impact Report (EIR) prepared for the Development . On 21 July 2014 , Madera County
filed a Notice of Determination certifying the final EIR for the Development. On 21 July
2014, Madera County approved Resolution 2014 -106 establishing Madera County
Service Are a #22C to provide for municipal services within the Development
(i.e., Gunner Ranch West Specific Plan Area ).
Gunner Ranch, Inc., the project developer, in accordance with a 2019 License Agreement
with the Gunner Revocable Trust, will undertake the obligation for the Development
including construction of the wet utilities related to the sewer collection system, an d
proposed water and wastewater treatment facilities. Upon WRP start-up, Madera County
Service Area #22C will be the public agency responsible for daily operation and
maintenance of the WRP. Madera County Service Area #22C, will have a long -term
contractua l relationship with Gunner Ranch, Inc. to provide water and sewer service to the
Development as it grows . For the purposes of this Order, Gunner Ranch, Inc. and Madera
County Service Area #22C are collectively referred in singular form to as “Discharger ,” and
are both responsible for compliance with the WDRs .
On 22 March 2019, Joe Riess, a registered civil engineer (RCE 66413) with Waterworks
Engineers submitted revised plans for construction of the WRP. The plans proposed a
change in the treatment technolo gies from construction of a sequencing batch reactor
plant to construction of a packaged modular membrane bioreactor (MBR) designed by
Cloacina ®. The change was proposed due to improvements in treatment technologies
resulting in lower construction costs an d higher effluent quality using the packaged
-2- WAST E DISCHARG E REQUIREMENT S O RDER R5-2 019-0084
GUNNER RANCH, INC. AND MADERA COUNT Y SERVICE AREA
#22C GUNNER RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADER A COUNTY
INFORMATION SHEET
mod
ular MBR system. This change will modify the design flow for the initial phase of the
WRP (i.e., Phase 1 A) from 0.21 mgd to 0.25 mgd. No other significant changes were
proposed .
Wastewater Generation and Disposal
The WRP will provide tertiary treatment with ultraviolet light (UV) disinfect ion. Disposal
will be by a combination of percolation and reuse for irrigation of landscape and open
areas within and around the Development. In addition, the WRP will provide treatment
that will include nitrification/denitrification to reduce nitrogen concentrations in the
effluent to less than 10 mg/L.
The Initial Phase (Phase 1 A) of the WRP will consist of an influent pump station,
headworks, 60 -mil single lined emergency overflow pond with equalization basins, a
modular packaged MBR treatment system designed by Cloacina®, sludge handling
facilities, and a percolation pond divided into multiple cells . The modular packaged MBR
system will contain two anoxic basins, three aeration basins, two MBR filters, and a UV
disinfection unit. Phase 1 A of the WRP will have a designed treatment capacity of 0.25
mgd with a peak hydraulic capacity of 0.5 mgd.
Expansion of the WRP to Phase 1 (0.5 mgd) , Phase 2 (1.0 mgd) , and Phase 3 (1.5 mgd)
will consist of adding additional treatment components and increasing disposal capacity . At
build out (Phase 3) , the WRP will consist of three complete treatment trains each capable
of handling an average dry weather flow of 0.5 mgd and a peak hydraulic flow of 1.0 mgd .
Because this is a new facility, there is no existing effluent data available. Anticipated
effluent quality for the system shown below is based on the proposed treatment process
and data from similar existing f acilities.
Table 1– Anticipated Effluent Quality
Constituent/Parameter Influent Effluent
Electrical Conductivity (EC), μmhos/cm <900
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), mg/L 300 10
Total Suspended Solids (TSS), mg/L 300 10
Total Nitrogen (as N) , mg/L 45 <10
For Phase 1 A and Phase 1 , disposal of treated effluent will be to onsite percolation pond (s)
only. During construction , the design of the percolation pond (s) was revised to include a
single percolation pond divided into multiple cells with a total disposal capacity of at leas t
0.5 mgd . Additional percolation ponds will be constructed in the future to handle increased
flows as the WRP expands. In addition, the WRP will provide recycle d water for irrigation of
landscape and open areas within and around the Development in the future. The future use
of recycled water will be addressed once the landscape infrastructure is constructed and
-3- WAST E DISCHARG E REQUIREMENT S ORDER R5-2 019 -0084
GUNNER RANCH, INC. AND MADERA COUNT Y SERVICE AREA
#22C GUNNER RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADER A COUNTY
INFORMATION SHEET
flows
reach the capacity to make recycled water use feasible. Expected to occur no later
than Phase 2 when flows exceed 0.5 mgd .
Groundwater Considerations
According to the DWR ’s Information Center Interactive Maps, depth -to-groundwater
across the Development ranged from about 80 to 180 feet below site grade (bsg) and
about 160 to 180 feet bsg in the vicinity of the WRP in Spring 2018. Regional
groundwater flow in the area is gene rally to the west -northwest away from the San
Joaquin River.
There are no monitoring wells at the site. Based on the available data, groundwater quality
beneath the Development and WRP is expected to be of good quality, with an EC between
156 and 603 μmho s/cm, a TDS between 159 and 400 mg/L, and nitrate (as N) between
<0.2 and 9.3 mg/L. With groundwater at depths greater than 150 feet bsg in the vicinity of
the WRP and the proposed level of treatment including nitrification/denitrification to reduce
nitrog en concentrations in the effluent to <10 mg/L, the proposed discharge from the WRP
to percolation ponds and future recycling of effluent for irrigation is not expected to
significantly degrade groundwater or impair beneficial uses.
Groundwater consideratio ns are discussed in Findings 26 through 30 of the Order.
Antidegradation
State Water Board Resolution 68 -16, Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining
High Quality Waters in California (Antidegradation Policy), requires the regional water
boards to maintain high quality waters of the State unless it is demonstrated that any
change in quality will not result in water quality less than that described in State and
Regional Water Board poli cies, will not exceed water quality objectives or unreasonable
affect beneficial uses, the Discharger is implementing best practicable treatment or
control (BPTC) to minimize degradation, and the discharge is consistent with the
maximum benefit to people o f the State.
Antidegradation analysis and conclusions are discussed in Findings 47 through 52 of
the Order.
Discharge Prohibitions,