wastewater treatment and disposal system is currently regulated under individual
Waste Discharge Requirements ( WDR s) Order 99-045. The WDR s are considered backlogged
because the renewal date has passed.

FACILITY AND DESCRIPTION
The Gutierrez Property is located in Section 14, T 23N, R1W, MDB&M with surface water drainage
to Pine Creek, an indirect tributary of the Sacramento River , as shown on Attachment A .
Toribio & Luis Gutierrez - 2 - 23 August 2018
Gutierrez Property , Hwy 99 Chico
Luis Gutierrez , facility manager , is the person responsible for general operation and maintenance
of the wastewater treatment system for the Gutierrez Property , Hwy 99 Chico. The waste water
system consists of gravity flow lines, 4 septic tank s and two waste water disposal ponds , receiving
approximately 2,500 gpd of wastewater . This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the
General Order is categorically exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301 which applies to ongoing or
existing projects.

FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the terms
and conditions of this Notice of Applicability ( NOA ) and the General Order 2014- 0153- DWQ -
R5285, with all attachments.

The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements form Table 3, with which the
Discharger shall comply :

Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic
Well Flowing
Stream a Ephemeral
Stream
Drainage b Property
Line Lake or
Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit,
Treatment System, or
Collection System e
150 ft .y
 N/A 50 ft. 5 ft.c, z N/A
Wastewater Storage and/or Treatment Ponds
Impoundment
(Undisinfected secondary
recycled water) i 150 ft.s N/A 130 ft. 25 ft.1 N /A
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of
water elevation and indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character,
vegetation type, presence of litter or debris, or other appropriate means.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or
snow -melt and does not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of
flowing surface water. The drainage shall be measured from a line that defines the limit of the
ordinary high water mark (described in “a” above). Irrigation canals are not considered ephemeral
streams drainage features. The ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging surface
water to groundwater) at the proposed wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K -1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System addresses equipment
located below ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
i Undisinfected secondary recycled water is defined in California Code of Regulations, title 22,
section 60301.900.
s Setback established by California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60310(d).
z Collection system to property line setback is not applicable.
1 Initial set back requirements of 50 feet was waived i n accordance with Section B.1, l .(v).
Toribio & Luis Gutierrez - 3 - 23 August 2018
Gutierrez Property , Hwy 99 Chico
General Order Section B.1.l also states that, “…some existing sites may not comply with the
setbacks provided herein. Such non- complying sites may be permitted under this General Order if
nuisance conditions do not result from the non- compliance.” Therefore, pursuant to the General
Order, this does not require compliance with the impoundment to property line setback, and finds
that the setback is not applicabl e.

Failure to comply with the requirements in the documents could result in an enforcement action as
authorized by provisions of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than those
described in this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that described
in this NOA, you must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new operation.

The required annual fee specified in the annual billing from the State Water Board shall be paid
until this NOA is officially terminated. You must notify this off ice in writing if the discharge
regulated by the General Order ceases, so that we may terminate coverage and avoid
unnecessary billing.

Facility Information
Facility Name Gutierrez Property, Hwy 99
Program WDR
Order Number WQ 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5285
WDID 5A041034001
Design Flow N/A
Threat and Complexity 3C
Monitoring Requirements Yes

Billing Information
Name Toribio & Luis Gutierrez
Contact Luis Gutierrez
Email gutierrez7519@yahoo.com
Address 1043 Samoline Ave, Downey, CA 90241
Phone (323) 559 7519

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory
documents, MRPs, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should
be converted to a searchable P ortable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically.
Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov .

Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate
regional water board office, in this case 364 Knollcrest Drive, Suite 205, Redding, CA 96002. To
ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate sta ff, the following information block
should be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office:

Program: Non- 15 WDID: 5A041034001

Facility Name: Gutierrez Property , Hwy 99 Order: 2014- 0153 -DWQ -R5285

Please note that WDRs Order No. 9 9-045 is proposed to be rescinded at the 4 /5 October
2018 meeting of the Central Valley Water Board. Upon rescission of your individual WDRs,
Toribio & Luis Gutierrez - 4 - 23 August 2018
Gutierrez Property , Hwy 99 Chico
coverage for your facility under t he General Order shall go into effect subject to this Notice of
Applicability.

If you have any questions r egarding submitting an updated Report of Waste D ischarge, making
changes to your permitted operations, compliance or enforcement please contact Ron S.
Falkowski at (530) 224- 3227, rsfalkowksi@waterboards.ca.gov , or the footer address.


Original signed by George Low

 (for) Patrick Pulupa , Executive Officer

RSF: ch

Attachments: Attachment A – Site Location Map
 Attachment B – Facility Map
 Technical Memorandum
 Monitoring and Reporting Program

cc w/o enc: Tim O’Brien , State Water Board, Sacramento
 Butte County Environmental Health Department , Chico
 David Lancaster , SWRCB, Office of Chief Counsel, Sacramento
ORDER R5-2014 -0153- DWQ -R5285
GUTIERREZ PROPERTY , HWY 99
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
BUTTE COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT A - LOCATION MAP

 PROJECT LOCATION N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 LOCATION MAP

GUTIERREZ PROPERTY, HWY 99
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
BUTTE COUNTY

ORDER 2014 -0153- DWQ -R5285
GUTIERREZ PROPERTY, HWY 99
WAS TEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT B – FACILITY MAP

DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 FACILITY MAP

GUTIERREZ PROPERTY, HWY 99
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
 Disposal


 Ponds N



TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

TO: George Low, PG FROM: Ron Falkowski
 Senior Engineering Geologist Engineer ing Geologist

DATE: 23 August 2018 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski

SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR TORIBIO GUTIERREZ
PROPERTY, WDR ORDER 99- 045, BUTTE COUNTY

I have reviewed the case file for Gutierrez Property Hwy 99, Chico and conducted an inspection
of the facility on 24 July 2018. The file documents and inspection indicate the general condition
of the wastewater treatment system . The Discharger has kept adequate maintenance
documentation and the collection /disposal infrastructure generally appears in good order.

The average daily wastewater flow from the 4 commercial sites and one manufactured home is
less than 2 ,500 gallons per day . The two ponds have a design capacity which is above the
storage volume required by the existing community . The dissolved oxygen levels are monitored
at the first wastewater treatment pond.

Potential Threats to Water Quality
The wastewater treatment system is located south east corner of the main community complex .
The closest distance from the wastewater ponds to the nearest property l ine is approximately 25
feet. Althought this distance is less than the 50 feet recommended by General Order 2014 -0153-
DWQ (General Order), the wastewater berm is in a condition that will protect adjacent properties
from impact and the setback limits should be waived as described by Requirements Section B.1,
l.(v) of the General Order. The closest potable water well is greater th an 500 feet from the
wastewater ponds . The closest surface wat er is greater than 50 feet from evaporation pond. With
adequate soil depth (20-30 Ft.) , low flow volumes and being predominately surrounded by
agricultural land; no groundwater monitoring network has been established. Completion of the
Nitrate Checklist in Attachment 1 of the General Order indicates the following flow and rationale:

A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow generally less than 2 ,500 gpd.
Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.

Monitoring Requirements
To protect water quality, a monitoring program similar to the existing Order should be instituted.
General pond requirements would be sufficient monitor physical condition of the system
(Freeboard, Odor, Rodent control, etc.).

===PLANNED CHANGES===

