Facility Description . The Discharger owns and operates the domestic an d municipal
wastewater recycling facility. Primary and seconda ry treatment occurs through
mechanically cleaned bar screens, cyclonic grit cha mbers, primary clarifiers, fixed fine-
bubble aeration basins, and secondary clarifiers. Associated solids handling occurs
through dissolved air flotation thickeners, primary and secondary anaerobic digesters,
centrifuge dewatering units, and an odor control sy stem. Tertiary treatment occurs
through chemical coagulation and flocculation, mono media continuous backwash
upflow filtration, and ultraviolet disinfection and /or chlorination. Screened solids are
trucked to a landfill and dewatered sludge is truck ed offsite for land application.
Recycled water that is not reused will be dechlorin ated as needed and discharged to the
San Elijo Ocean Outfall. The discharge from the Fa cility to San Elijo Ocean Outfall is
separately regulated under Order No. R9-2005-0101 ( NPDES CA0107981).
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the facility. Attachment B provides a
flow schematic of the facility.
D. Legal Authorities. This Order is issued pursuant to sections 13263 a nd 13523 of the
California Water Code. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
and a Master Reclamation Permit pursuant to Article 4, Chapter 4, Division 7 of the
Water Code.
E. Background and Rationale for Requirements. The San Diego Water Board
developed the requirements in this Order based on i nformation submitted as part of the
Report of Waste Discharge, through monitoring and r eporting programs, and other
available information. The Information Sheet (Atta chment D), which contains
background information and rationale for Order requ irements, is hereby incorporated
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 6 into this Order and constitutes part of the Finding s for this Order. Attachments A through
E are also incorporated into this Order.
F. California Environmental Quality Act. This project involves requirements for existing
waste treatment facilities. As such, this project is categorically exempt from the
requirements of the California Environmental Qualit y Act (CEQA) as provided by
Section 15301, and in compliance with Section 15300 .2, of California Code of
Regulations Title 14. In addition the Discharger c ertified a final Environmental Impact
Report for this project in June 1992 in accordance with the CEQA (Public Resources
Code section 21000, et seq.). The project identifi ed no significant groundwater impact.
G. Technology-based

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or
anticipated noncompliance does not stay any conditi on of this Order.
19. The Discharger shall file a new Report of Waste Dis charge at least 120 days
prior to the following:
a. Addition of a major industrial waste discharge to a discharge of essentially
domestic sewage, or the addition of a new process o r product by an industrial
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 15 facility resulting in a change in the character of the wastes.
b. Significant change in the treatment or disposal met hod (e.g., change in the
method of treatment which would significantly alter the nature of the waste).
c. Change in the disposal area from that described in the findings of this Order.
d. Increase in flow beyond that specified in this Orde r.
e. Other circumstances that result in a material chang e in character, amount, or
location of the waste discharge.
f. Any planned change in the regulated facility or act ivity which may result in
noncompliance with this Order.
20. This Order is not transferable to any person except after notice to the San Diego
Water Board. The Discharger shall submit this notic e in writing at least 30 days in
advance of any proposed transfer. The notice must include a written agreement
between the existing and new Discharger containing a specific date for the
transfer of this Order's responsibility and coverag e between the current
Discharger and the new discharger. This agreement shall include an
acknowledgement that the existing Discharger is lia ble for violations up to the
transfer date and that the new discharger is liable from the transfer date on. The
San Diego Water Board may require modification or r evocation and reissuance of
this Order to change the name of the Discharger and incorporate such other
requirements as may be necessary under the Water Co de.
21. Where the Discharger becomes aware that it failed t o submit any relevant
facts in a Report of Waste Discharge or submitted i ncorrect information in
a Report of Waste Discharge or in any report to the San Diego Water
Board, it shall promptly submit such facts or infor mation.
22. All applications, reports, or information submitted to the San Diego Water Board
shall be signed and certified as follows:
a. The Report of Waste Discharge shall be signed as fo llows:
i. For a corporation - by a principal Executive Office r of at least the level of
Vice-President.
ii. For a partnership or sole proprietorship - by a gen eral partner or the
proprietor, respectively.
iii. For a municipality, state, federal or other public agency - by either a
principal Executive Officer or ranking elected offi cial.
b. All other reports required by this Order and other information required by the
San Diego Water Board shall be signed by a person d esignated in paragraph
(a) of this provision, or by a duly authorized repr esentative of that person. An
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 16 individual is a duly authorized representative only if all of the following are
true:
i. The authorization is made in writing by a person de scribed in paragraph
(a) of this provision,
ii. The authorization specifies either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the reg ulated facility or activity,
and
iii. The written authorization is submitted to the San D iego Water Board.
c. Any person signing a document under this section sh all make the following
certification:
"I certify under penalty of law that I have persona lly examined and am familiar
with the information submitted in this document and all attachments and that,
based on my inquiry of those individuals immediatel y responsible for
obtaining the information, I believe that the infor mation is true, accurate, and
complete. I am aware that there are significant pe nalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment."
23. The Discharger shall submit reports required under this Order or other information
required by the San Diego Water Board to the follow ing address:
 POTW Compliance Unit
 California Regional Water Quality Control Board
 San Diego Region
 9174 Sky Park Court, Suite 100
 San Diego, California 92123

B. Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) Requireme nts
The Discharger shall comply with the MRP and future revisions thereto, in Attachment C
of this Order.
C. Special Provisions
1. Facility Design and Operation Specifications
a. The Discharger shall, at all times, properly operat e and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appur tenances) which are installed
or used by the Discharger to achieve compliance wit h conditions of this Order.
Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate
funding, adequate operator staffing and training, a nd adequate laboratory and
process controls including appropriate quality assu rance procedures. This
provision requires the operation of backup or auxil iary facilities or similar systems
only when necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order.
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 17 b. Prior to any changes in the treatment facilities, t he Discharger shall notify the
San Diego Water Board, and, for changes that may af fect the discharge including
increasing the flow from the UV disinfection system to greater than 4.0 mgd,
prepare an engineering report conforming to CCR Tit le 22 section 60323. The
engineering report shall be submitted to the CDPH, County DEH, and San Diego
Water Board for review and response.
c. Disinfection of recycled water shall comply with al l requirements of CCR Title 22,
Division 4. Disinfection may be accomplished by ei ther:
i. a. A chlorine disinfection process that provides a CT (chlorine concentration
times modal contact time) value of not less than 45 0 mg-min/liter at all times
with a modal chlorine contact time of at least 90 m inutes based on peak dry
weather design flow where the chlorine residual is sampled at the same point
determined to meet the modal chlorine contact time requirement; or
ii. A disinfection process, that, when combined with th e filtration process, has
been demonstrated to reduce the concentration of pl aque-forming units of F-
specific bacteriophage MS2, or polio virus, per uni t volume of water in the
wastewater to one hundred thousandths (1/100,000) o f the initial
concentration in the filter influent throughout the range of qualities of
wastewater that will occur during the recycling pro cess. A virus that is at least
as resistant to disinfection as polio virus may be used for purposes of the
demonstration.
d. Within 180 days of adoption of the Order, the Disch arger must submit to the San
Diego Water Board a certification that the operatio ns manual includes the
following information. A copy of the facility oper ations manual shall be
maintained at the Facility and shall be available t o operation personnel and San
Diego Water Board staff at all times. The followin g portions of the operations
manual shall be posted at the treatment plant as a quick reference for treatment
plant operators:
i. Alarm set points for secondary turbidity, tertiary turbidity, and UV
transmittance.
ii. Levels at which flow will be diverted for secondary turbidity, tertiary turbidity,
and chlorine residual/UV transmittance.
iii. When to divert flow for high daily and weekly media n total coliform.
iv. When the authorities (CDPH, County DEH, San Diego W ater Board) will be
notified of a diversion.
v. Names and numbers of those authorities to be notifi ed in case of a diversion.
vi. Frequency of calibration for turbidimeters and chlo rine residual analyzers.
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 18 e. The Facility shall be supervised and operated by pe rsons possessing certificates
of appropriate grade pursuant to CCR Title 23, Chap ter 3, Subchapter 14,
f. All waste treatment, storage and purveyance facilit ies shall be protected against
100-year peak stream flows as defined by the San Di ego County flood control
agency.
g. All wastewater and recycled water storage facilitie s shall be protected against
erosion, overland runoff, and other impacts resulti ng from a 100-year, 24-hour
frequency storm.
2. Recycled Water Use Provisions
a. Within 180 days of adoption of the Order, the Disch arger must submit to the San
Diego Water Board, the CDPH, and the County of San Diego Department of
Environmental Health (County DEH) a certification t hat its Rules and Regulations
for Recycled Water Users are compliant with this Or der. The certification shall
include any update to the Rules and Regulations. T he updated Rules and
Regulations shall, at a minimum, include:
i. The requirements that are contained in Attachment E of this Order; and
ii. A program to conduct inspections of recycled water reuse sites to determine
the status of compliance with the Discharger’s appr oved Rules and
Regulations.
b. Within 1 year of adoption of the Order, the Dischar ger must submit to the CDPH
and the County DEH a certification that a Master Pl an covering multiple reuse
sites and/or any individual Plans and Specification s reports are compliant with
this Order. The certification shall include any up date to plans and specifications.
The report shall include a detailed description of each reuse site identifying all of
the information below:
i. A copy of the long-term agreement between the Disch arger and the user for
the use of recycled water on the site.
ii. The number, location, and type of facilities within the use area proposing to
use domestic and recycled water. "Facility" means a ny type of building or
structure, or defined area of specific public use t hat utilizes or proposes to
utilize a dual plumbed system.
iii. The average number of persons estimated to be serve d at each use area on
a daily basis.
iv. The specific boundaries of the proposed use site ar ea including a map
showing the location of each facility, drinking wat er fountain and
impoundment to be served.
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 19 v. The person or persons responsible for operation of the recycled water system
at each use area.
vi. The specific use to be made of the recycled water a t each use area.
vii. The methods to be used by the Discharger to assure that the installation and
operation of the recycled system will not result in cross connections between
the recycled water piping system and the potable wa ter piping system. This
shall include a description of pressure, dye or oth er test methods to be used
to test the system.
viii. Plans and specifications shall include the followin g and shall be submitted
to the CDPH and County DEH for approval:

(a) Proposed piping system to be used,
(b) Pipe locations of both the recycled and potable sys tems,
(c) Type and location of the outlets and plumbing fixtu res that will be
accessible to the public,
(d) The methods and devices to be used to prevent backf low of recycled
water into the public water system,
(e) Plan notes relating to recycled water specific inst allation and use
requirements.
c. Prior to providing recycled water to a new use site , the Discharger shall do the
following:
i. Submit for review and approval a plans and specific ations report that either
certifies (by the Discharger) that the project conf orms with what is described
in the master plan or information to supplement wha t is described in the
master plan to the CDPH and the County DEH. A cert ification report shall
document that all criteria described in Reclamation Specification 2.b above
has been submitted to and approved by the CDPH.
ii. Prior to the initial operation of the dual-plumbed recycled water system and
annually thereafter, the Discharger shall ensure th at the dual plumbed system
within each facility and use area is inspected for possible cross connections
with the potable water system. The recycled water s ystem shall also be tested
for possible cross connections at least once every four years. The testing
shall be conducted in accordance with the method de scribed in the report
submitted pursuant to section 60314. The inspection s and the testing shall be
performed by a cross connection control specialist certified by the California-
Nevada section of the American Water Works Associat ion or an organization
with equivalent certification requirements. The Cou nty DEH shall be notified
30 days prior to any cross connection test. A writ ten report documenting the
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY



Limitations and Discharge Requirements (Version 7/1 4/2010) 20 result of the inspection or testing for the prior y ear shall be submitted to the
County DEH within 30 days following completion of t he inspection or testing.
d. The Discharger shall do the following for all reuse sites:
i. Enforce recycled water rules and regulations;
ii. Conduct recycled water reuse site inspections in ac cordance with the
programs submitted in compliance with Reclamation S pecifications 2.a and
2.c of this Order;
iii. Notify the CDPH and the County DEH of any incidence of recycled water
backflow into the potable water system as soon as p ossible, but in no case
later than 24 hours of finding the incident; and
iv. Maintain a current list of all on-site recycled wat er supervisors.
e. The Discharger shall make available all relevant da ta needed for the purpose of
completing salt and nutrient management plans for h ydrologic basins described
in Finding J.
3. Notifications
a. This Order does not convey any property rights of a ny sort or any exclusive
privileges. The requirements prescribed herein do not authorize the commission
of any act causing injury to persons or property, n or protect the Discharger from
liability under federal, state or local laws, nor c reate a vested right for the
Discharger to continue the waste discharge.
b. These requirements have not been officially reviewe d by the USEPA and are not
issued pursuant to CWA section 402.
c. The provisions of this Order are severable, and if any provision of this Order, or
the application of any provision of this Order to a ny circumstance, is held invalid,
the application of such provision to other circumst ances, and the remainder of
this Order, shall not be affected thereby.
d. This Order becomes effective on the date of adoptio n by the San Diego Water
Board.
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY


Attachment A –Map (Version 7/14/2010) A-1 A.
ATTACHMENT A – MAP (UPDATED)

DISCHARGER ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY


Attachment B – Wastewater Flow Schematic (Version 7 /14/2010) B-1 B. B
ATTACHMENT B – FLOW SCHEMATIC (UPDATED)

CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER NO. R9-2010-0032
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY


Attachment C – MRP (Version 7/14/2010) C-1 C.
ATTACHMENT C – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM

Table of Contents

I. General Monitoring Provisions...................... ................................................... ...............C-2
II. Monitoring Locations ............................... ................................................... ....................C-5
III. Effluent Monitoring Requirements ................... ................................................... ............C-6
A. Monitoring Location - Recycled Water Service ....... .................................................C- 6
IV.