wastewater treatment and disposal for
the Hidden View Campground on the west side of Hensley Lake (37° 7’ 15.80” N,
119° 53’ 47.78 ” W) and Buck Ridge Recreation Area on the east side of Hensley
Lake ( 37° 7’ 19” N, 11 9° 52’ 25” W ). The discharges are currently regulated by Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order 90 -152, which authorizes a discharge of up
to 4,000 gallons per day (gpd) to evaporation ponds at both the Hidden View
Campground and Buck Ridge Recreation Area.
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
Hensley Lake is open year -round. However, there is limited use and services during the
off season from October to February. According to the RWD, the design flow for each
system is about 4,000 gallons per day ( gpd) for a combined flow of 8,000 gpd. Source
water for Hidden View Campground and Buck Ridge Recreation Area is provided by a surface water treatment plant that draws water from Hensley Lake.
Hidden View Campground has four restroom facilities including showers that serve
55 campsites . Wastewater generated from the restrooms flow s to either a 4,500- gallon
or 6,000- gallon septic tank. From the septic tanks , the wastewater is pumped to the
350,000- gallon lined evaporation pond. Estimated average daily flows for the Hidden
View Campground are about 1,200 gpd (calculated based on the average number of
visitors [≈ 40 per day] and typical flows of 30 gallons per person per day from the
California Plumbing Code).
Buck Ridge Recreation A rea has four restroom facilities without showers that serve
35-day use sites. Wastewater generated from the restr ooms flows to either a
6,000- gallon or 7,500- gallon septic tank. From the septic tanks , the wastewater is
pumped to the 350,000- gallon lined evaporation pond. Estimated average daily flows for
Buck Ridge Recreation A rea are about 1,575 gpd (calculated based on the average
number of visitors [≈ 105 per day] and typical flows of 15 gallons per person per day
from the California Plumbing Code).
According to the RWD , the septic tanks are pumped out annually and the solids taken to
a permitted facility for disposal. In addition, both locations are equipped with fish
cleaning stations and there is a RV dump station at Hidden View Campground. The fish
cleaning stations and RV dump station discharge to onsite holding tanks separate from
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 3 5 May 2021
Hensley Lake WWTFs
Staff Memorandum
 the wastewater treatment systems . These holding tanks ar e routinely pumped out and
the waste taken to a permitted facility for disposal .
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
Hensley Lake is a 1,500- acre manmade lake in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada. At an
elevation around 540 feet above mean seal level , the area consists of shallow soils
overlying igneous and metamorphic bedrock. Groundw ater in the area is present in
fractured bedrock at various depths ranging from 20 to 200 feet below site grade (bsg) .
There is limited soil data for the area. However according to t he RWD , given actual flows
at Hidden View Campground and Buck Ridge Recreation Area , the evaporation ponds
generally operate at about 50% capacity and no overflow issues have been reported.
According to the Discharger the evaporation ponds were constructed in the 1970’s and
equipped with an 8- mil PVC liner and covered by a 6-inch gravel layer. The condition of
the liners is unknown; however, given their age some deterioration is expected.
According to t he Discharger , the distance from the evaporation ponds to Hensley Lake at
both locations is greater than 2,000 feet. Th is distance meet s the minimum setback
requirements specified in Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks in the
General Order . However, the OWTS Policy requires a minimum setback of 200 feet for
septic tanks and collection systems from a l ake or reservoir. Based on the available data
the existing septic tanks at the Hidden View Campground at 170 and 3 9 feet from the
high- water mark do not meet this setback. According to Discharger there have been no
reports of odor or nuisance conditions and no instances of these septic tanks being
flooded as a result of high water from the lake . In addition, the tanks are pumped out
annually to prevent overflows. Therefore, these existing septic tanks for not appear to
pose a threat to nearby Lake Hensley and the setback for these existing septic tanks is
sufficient.
According to the RWD, the Discharger does not sample its wastewater and both W WTFs
are currently closed (Hidden View Campground is closed due to the COVID -19
Pandemic, and Buck Ridge Recreation Area has been closed since 2014 for refurbishing) so there is no effluent water quality data. However, t he discharge to the WWTFs has no
commercial or industrial com ponent and is expected to be similar to that of a residential
use with similar wastewater solids and chemical loading. According to Table 1 of the
General Order, t ypical residential wastewater ranges from 155 -330 mg/L for t otal
suspended solids (TSS) , from 155 -286 mg/L for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD
5), and
from 26-75 mg/L for total nitrogen (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2005 ). Septic
tanks are expected to achieve 60- 80% removal of solids from raw wastewater with s olids
remaining in septic tank , and BOD removal is expected to be around 30-50%.
In accordance with Attachment 1 of the General Order, with a combined flow less than
20,000 gpd a nitrogen effluent evaluation is not required.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 4 5 May 2021
Hensley Lake WWTFs
Staff Memorandum
 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the
General Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring
• Pond System Monitoring
• Solids Disposal Monitoring
SALT AND NITRATE CONTROL PROGRAMS
As part of the Central Val ley Salinity Alternatives for Long- Term Sustainability
(CV-SALTS) initiative, the Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments
(Resolution R5- 2018- 0034) incorporating new programs for addressing ongoing salt and
nitrate accumulation in the waters and soils of the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018
Board Meeting. On 16 October 2019, the State Water Resources Control Board
adopted Resolution No. 2019- 0057 conditionally approving the Central Valley Water
Board Basin Plan amendments and directed the Central Valley Water Board to make targeted revisions to th e Basin Plan amendments within one year f ollowing approval by
the Office of Administrative Law. The Office of Administrative Law approved the Basin Plan amendments on 15 January 2020 (OAL Matter No. 2019- 1203 -03).
Pursuant to the Basin Plan amendments, A Notice to Comply for the Salt Control
Program was issued to the Discharger on 5 January 2021. The Discharger must
submit a Notice o f Intent by 15 July 2021 informing the Central Valley Water Board
of their choice between Option 1 (Conservative Option for Salt Permitting) or Option 2 (Alternative Option for Salt Permitting) . Under Option 1, the discharge will need to
comply with a stringent salinity requirement of 700 µmhos/cm to protect beneficial
uses . If the discharge cannot comply with th is requirement, the Discharger will need to
meet performance- based requirements and participate in a basin- wide planning effort
to develop a long- term salinity strategy for the Central Valley (i.e., participate in the
Priority and Optimization Study per Option 2). The level of participation required of
dischargers whose discharges do not meet stringent salinity requirements will vary based on factors such as the amount of salinity in the discharge, local conditions, and
type of discharge. With an average EC of about 1,024 µmhos/cm (based on limited
data from the 1990’s), the Discharger will likely need to select Option 2.
For the Nitrate Control Program, the Facility falls outside a prioritized groundwater
basin. The closest prioritized basin is Groundwater Bas in 5-022.06 . (San Joaquin
Valley - Madera ) a Priority 2 basin . Implementation within a non- prioritized
basin/sub- basin will occur as directed by the Central Valley Water Board Executive
Officer. More information related to the Salt and Nitrate Control Programs can be found at the CV -SALTS Website (https://www.cvsalinity.org/public -info
).