Basin’s Edward C. Little Water Recycling Plant for advanced treatment and
reuse. The Hyperion WRP is part of a joint outfall system commonly known as
the Hyperion Treatment System, which consists of 6,700 miles of w astewater
conveyance system, the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant and three upstream
wastewater treatment plants: Donald C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant
(Tillman WRP), Los Angeles -Glendale Water Reclamation Plant (LAGWRP),
Burbank Water Reclamation Plant (Burbank WRP) (owned and operated by a
contract city), and thei r associated outfalls. The Hyperion treatment system
collects, treats, and disposes of sewage from the entire City of Los Angeles
(except the Wilmington -San Pedro area, the strip north of San Pedro, and
Watts) , and from a number of cities and agencies unde r contractual agreements.
Approximately 85% of the untreated wastewater comes from the City of Los
Angeles. The remaining 15% comes from the contract cities and agencies. There
are approximately four million people in the Hyperion treatment system service
area. See Attachment B1-B3 for a map of the Hyperion Treatment System
Service Area.
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2023-0033
HYPERION WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED ORDER: 2/23/2023 F-8Contract Cities and Agencies
a. Aneta Street Tax Zone
b. Army Reserve Center
c. Army Reserve Training
d. Barrington Post Office
e. City of Beverly Hills
f. City of Burbank
g. California National Guard (Federal Avenue Armory)
h. L.A. County Sanitation District #4 (W. Hollywood)
i. L.A. County Sanitation District #5 (Inglewood)
j.L.A. County Sanitation District #16 (Alhambra, Pasadena, S.
Pasadena)
k. L.A. County Sanitation District #27 (Sunset Mesa)
l. City of Culver City
m. City of El Segundo
n. Federal Office Building
o. City of Glendale
p. Karl Holton Camp
q. Las Virgenes Municipal Water District
r. Marina Del Rey
s. City of San Fernando
t. City of Santa Monica
u. Triunfo County Sanitation District
v. Universal City
w. Veterans Memorial Park
x. Veterans Administration - Sawtelle
y. West Los Angeles Community College
Sludge from the City’s two upstream plants (Tillman WRP and LAGWRP) is
returned to the wastewater collection system and flows to the Hyperion WRP for
treatment. Discharges from Tillman WRP and LAGWRP are regulated by Order
Number R4-2017-0062 (NPDES Number CA0056227) and Order Number R4-
2017-0063 (NPDES Number CA0053953), respectively. In addition, sludge
generated from the Burbank WRP is also returned to the City of Burbank sewer
system for treatment at the Hyperion WRP . The influent to the Burbank WRP can
be diverted/bypassed to the Hyperion WRP during periods of emergency.
Discharges from the Burbank WRP are regulated under R4 -2017-0064 (NPDES
Number CA0055531).
The Hyperion WRP has provided full secondary treatment since December 1998.
A process flow dia gram of the Hyperion WRP process is depicted in Attachment
C1. The treatment processes consist of advanced primary, and secondary
treatment:
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2023-0033
HYPERION WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED ORDER: 2/23/2023 F-9a.Preliminary Treatment - The headworks removes coarse solids (bar
screens) and, sand and silt (grit removal) from wastewater. The headworks
consists of eight barscreens (4 new 3/4 -inch and 4 new 3/8 -inch) with
provisions for two future bar screens with a capacity of over 1,000 MGD, a
grit capture classifier , pumping equipment, and screen storage hoppers .
b.Advanced Primary Treatment – Includes primary sedimentation with
coagulation and flocculation using anionic polymer and ferric chloride, and
surface skimming. The heavier solids settle and are scraped out of the
primary sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and a re
skimmed off. The primary treatment process consists of four primary batteries
consisting of a total of 26 primary sedimentation tanks, a skimming system, a
raw sludge collection mechanism, and a pumping apparatus. Primary effluent
is pumped via ten Arch imedes screw type pumps with a total capacity of over
1,000 MGD to the secondary reactors via the Intermediate Pumping Station
(IPS).
c.Secondary Treatment – Includes activated sludge biological treatment using
high purity oxygen and secondary clarification. Activated sludge consists of
microorganisms that consume non -settleable and dissolved organic
contaminants which form a settleable floc. Secondary clarification removes
the biological floc from the wastewater and the biological floc becomes part of
the sl udge. The secondary process is comprised of nine reactor modules
each with a design capacity of 50 MGD, a cryogenic facility to produce high
purity oxygen, 36 circular clarifiers each with a design capacity of about 30
MGD, and a Return Activated Sludge (R AS) pumping system. Hyperion WRP
pumps approximately 36 MGD of secondary effluent to West Basin for
advanced treatment and reuse. The rest of the secondary treated effluent
discharge through the 5 -Mile Outfall ( Discharge Point 002) by pumping or
gravity (d epending on the tide condition) to the Santa Monica Bay.
d.Service Water facility - The Hyperion WRP also contains a Service Water
Facility that accepts approximately 11 MGD of secondary -treated effluent to
produce service water for internal plant use. Appr oximately 5 MGD of the
secondary effluent is directed through a filtration process and then used to
provide cooling water at the on -site cryogenic facility. The spent cooling water
from the cryogenic facility is combined with the final effluent before ente ring
the Effluent Pumping Plant for discharge (See attachment C1). The spent
cooling water is not expected to negatively impact effluent quality due to the
low flow rate compared to total flow and the process is only expected to alter
the temperature of th e cooling water (no chemical addition). The Permittee is
also required to monitor the temperature of the final effluent and this
Order/Permit includes a final

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee plans to construct a permanent pump station for the 1-Mile Outfall
Surge Chamber. The pump station will help with drawdown from the 1-Mile
outfall gates to the inlet channel of the Service Water Facility for treatment and
will be used for scheduled preventive maintenance and selected standard
operating procedures. The con struction is scheduled to be completed in April
2023.
The Permittee is also in the process of upgrading and augmenting the existing
treatment systems at the Hyperion WRP to produce and supply highly purified
recycled water for various potential non -potabl e uses to the Los Angeles
International Airport (LAX) and within Hyperion WRP. This proposed recycled
water project (“project”) consists of the design, construction and operation of the
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility (HAWPF). HAWPF will proc ess up
to 2 MGD primary treated effluent through fine screening, membrane bioreactor
(MBR), reverse osmosis (RO), and UV disinfection/advanced oxidation process
(UV/AOP) to produce 1.5 MGD of advanced treated recycled water. Construction
tasks for the HAWP F are scheduled to be completed by November 2023 . The
HAWPF will produce advanced -treated recycled water that will support several
non-potable uses at LAX including cooling tower make -up water and dual
plumbing . The advanced -treated recycled water will als o support industrial uses
onsite at the Hyperion WRP such as boiler feed water. Potential future uses
within the service area include odor scrubbing, toilet flushing, irrigation (Hyperion
WRP landscape and City tree maintenance), vehicle washing, firefight ing, street
sweeping, dust control, and sewer flushing at various locations throughout the
City and by various City agencies. The use of recycled water for beneficial reuse
will be permitted under a separate order prior to delivery of the recycled water to
the end users. The RO process at the HAWPF will have a recover y rate of 85%,
and the RO concentrate will be conveyed back to the Hyperion WRP headwork s.
The product water reused onsite for uses other than landscape irrigation will also
return to the Hyperion WRP headworks . The volume of combined streams (i.e.,
CITY OF LOS ANGELES ORDER R4-2023-0033
HYPERION WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0109991
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED ORDER: 2/23/2023 F-22backwash, sludge, recycled water used on -site at Hyperion WRP, RO
concentrate, etc.) from HAWPF will be approximately 1.1 MGD and will be
conveyed back to the headworks for treatment. Although t he HAWPF waste
stream will contain elevated levels of pollutants , the discharge accounts for less
than 0.4% of the total effluent flow rate from the Hyperion WRP and is expected
to have minimal impact on the Hyperion WRP effluent quality .
The Permittee also plans to conduct a n MBR Pilot Facility project in the next five
years , which will optimize the design basis for converting the existing activated
sludge facilities at Hyperion WRP to an MBR system . The program will provide
an average daily flow of 272 MGD of MBR effluent for further advanced
treatment. To facilitate the conversion, the Hyperion WRP will be designed for a
peak wet -weather flow of 740 MGD starting at the beginning of constructi on in
2025. Influent to the pilot project will be conveyed from the Hyperion WRP
intermediate pump stations downstream from the primary clarifiers and will be
treated by MBR, RO, and advanced oxidation AOP. The pilot project will
discharge streams of waste activated sludge, MBR filtrate overflow, RO
permeate, RO concentrate, neutralized RO cleaning waste, and AOP effluent to
the headworks of Hyperion WRP primary sedimentation through plant drains.
The net effect of the discharge from the pilot project is expected to be mini mal
with regards to the effluent quality from Hyperion WRP because all flow streams
(product water and wastewater) from the pilot MBR project will be conveyed back
to the headworks at Hyperion WRP .
4.