wastewater treatment and disposal facility’s performance, including discussion of capacity issues, infiltration and inflow rates, nuisance
conditions, and forecast of flows anticipated in the following year (SPRRs E.4)
including the continuing submittal of an Annual Inflow and I nfiltration report
summarizing mitigation measures completed during the past year and proposing measures to be implemented in the coming year.
10. A summary of information on the disposal and/or composting of sludge/biosolids
during the calendar year. The summary should include production totals, description of disposal methods, and results of any monitoring as required in Section II.G .
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2021- 0046 10
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JSD WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
11. Statement of when the Facility’s Operation and Maintenance Manual was last
reviewed for adequacy and a description of any changes made during the year .
C. VOLUMETRIC REPORTING
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/), amended in December 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water are required to report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced, and effluent, including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall submit an annual report to the State Water Board by April 30 of each calendar year furnished with the information detailed below. he Discharger must submit this annual report containing monthly data in electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet GeoTracker
system ( http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/). Required data shall be submitted to t he
GeoTracker database under a site- specific global identification number. Any data will be
made publicly accessible as machine readable datasets. The Discharger must report all applicable items listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of influent wastewater collected and treated by the
wastewater treatment facility.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of
treatment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to each of the
following, specifying level of treatment:
a) Inland surface waters, specifying volume required to maintain minimum instream flow.
b) Enclosed bays, estuaries and coastal lagoons, and ocean waters.
c) Natural systems, such as wetlands, wildlife habitats, and duck clubs, where augmentation or restoration has occurred, and that are not part of a wastewater treatment plant or water recycling treatment plant.
d) Underground injections wells, such as those classified by U.S. EPA’s Underground Injection Control Program, excluding groundwater recharge via subsurface application intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a coastal aquifer with a seawater interface.
e) Land, where beneficial uses is not taking place, including evaporation or percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irr igation disposal, excluding
pasture or fields with harvested crops.
4. Reuse. Monthly volume of recycled water distributed.
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2021- 0046 11
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JSD WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
5. Reuse Categories. Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for
beneficial use in compliance with California Code of Regulations, title 22 in each
of the use categories listed below:
a) Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
b) Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and playgrounds, school yards, athletic fields, cemeteries, residential landscaping, common areas, commercial landscaping, industrial landscaping, and freeway, highway, and street landscaping.
c) Golf course irrigation: irrigation of golf courses, including water used to maintain aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
d) Commercial application: commercial facilities, business use (such as
laundries and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
e) Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, proce ss water,
and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
f) Geothermal energy production: augmentation of geothermal fields.
g) Other non- potable uses: including but not limited to dust control, flushing
sewers, fire protection, fill stations, snow making, and recreational
impoundments.
h) Groundwater recharge: the planned use of recycled water for replenishment of a groundwater basin or an aquifer that has been designated as a source of water supply for a public water system. Includes surface or subsurface application, except for seawater intrusion barrier use.
i) Seawater intrusion barrier: groundwater recharge via subsurface application intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a coastal aquifer with a seawater interface.
j) Reservoi r water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into
a raw surface water reservoir used as a source of domestic drinking water supply for a public water system, as defined in section 116275 of the Health and Safety Code, or into a constructed system conveying water to such a
reservoir (Water Code section 13561).
k) Raw water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a system of pipelines or aqueducts that deliver raw water to a drinking water treatment plant that provides water to a public water system as defined in section 116275 of the Health and Safety Code (Water Code section 13561).

REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2021- 0046 13
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JSD WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY

IV. GLOSSARY
amsl Above mean sea level
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots over a 24-hour period.
Daily Once per day.
1/Week Once per week.
2/Week Twice per week on non- consecutive days .
1/Month Once per month.
2/Month Twice per month in non-consecutive weeks .
1/Quarter Once per quarter.
2/Year Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) in non-consecutive
quarters unless otherwise specified.
1/Year Once per year .
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis shall include; al kalinity (as CaCO 3), bicarbonate (asCaCO 3),
boron, calcium, carbonate (as CaCO 3), chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrate as N, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total
dissolved solids , and verification that the analysis is complete (i.e.,
cation/anion balance) .