Total Coliform MPN/mL Not Sampled14.6
(1.8 – 280)
15. The TUD’s current reclamation system at the Quartz Reservoir consists of
effluent storage (Quartz Reservoir) and a distribution system of approximately
nine miles of pipelines to deliver treated wastewater to multiple end-user sites
and over 600 acres of l and application area s as shown on Attachment A . The
secondary treated reclaimed water is used primarily for the irrigation of fodder,
fiber, seed, and pasture crops, but some is used for the spray irrigation of
non-food bearing trees .
Modifications to the JSD Woods Creek Facility
16. The headworks at the upgraded Woods Creek Facility will continue to be used
with screenings disposed of regularly at a nearby landfill. The headworks include
a spiral screen and washer and a Parshall flume for influent flow measurement.
The modified Woods Creek Facility has a new grit removal system and an
influent pump station to convey the influent to the Quartz WWTF as shown in the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 5
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Flow Diagram presented as Attachment C The grit collected by the grit removal
system is stored in a 1.5 cubic yard self -dumping decanter bin and removed and
disposed of regula rly at a nearby landfill. The existing force main will be used to
convey wastewater from the influent pump station at the Woods Creek Facility to
the Quartz WWTF. The existing primary clarifier, trickling filter, secondary
clarifier, and aerobic digesters were taken off -line and no longer in use since the
Quartz WWTF is now operational.
17. The clay -lined equalization basin and sludge storage lagoon at the Woods Cre ek
Facility were re-lined with a 60-mil textured high-density polyethylene (HDPE )
liner and converted into two emergency storage pond s. Both emergency storage
ponds are reported to be eight feet in depth. Emergency Storage Pond No. 1 has
a capacity of 358, 000 gallons, while Emergency Storage P ond No. 2 has a
storage capacity of 205,000 gallons. Prior to converting the ponds to emergency
storage ponds, s olids from these ponds w ere removed and sent to a landfill for
disposal.
New Quartz WWTF
18. The Quartz WW TF is situated on the west /northwest side of the Quartz Reservoir
as shown on Attachment D . The Quartz WWTF system will consist of a
secondary package biological treatment system (one selector tank , two first
stage aeration basins, two second stage aeration tanks , two clarifiers, and two
aerobic digesters ). From the secondary package system , wastewater will either
be disinfected using sodium hypochlorite in a secondary chlorine contact tank
prior to being recla imed (at the Quartz Reservoir) or receive tertiary treatment via
cloth media filtration and then disinfection by sodium hypochlorite in a tertiary
chlorine contact tank prior to being reclaimed .
19. A flow diagram of the new Jamestown W astewater Treatment Facilities is
included as Attachment C . The Quartz WWTF secondary effluent quality is
anticipated to be similar to the results of the existing WWTF that were
summarized in Table 3. Based on the limited data for nitrogen constituents, the
former Woods Creek Facility provide d treatment that reduces the average total
nitrate (as N) concentrations in the effluent to well below the primary maximum
contaminant level ( MCL ) of 10 mg/L . Both the secondary treated effluent and the
tertiary treat ed Quartz WWTF effluent is denitrified. JSD proposes to use the
disinfected tertiary recycled water for a recycled water fill station, onsite
washdown water, and irrigation of landscaping at the Quartz WWTF as shown on
Attachment E . The maximum flow from the tertiary treatment system is
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 6
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
100 gallons per minute or 14 4,000 gpd. The RWD included proposed disinfected
tertiary effluent quality that is summarized in Table 4.
Table 4– Proposed Tertiary Effluent Quali ty
Constituent Units Influent
BOD mg/L < 10
TSS mg/L < 10
Ammonia (as N) mg/L < 10
Nitrate (as N) mg/L < 10
TDS mg/L 500
pH pH Units 6.0 – 8.0
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/mL <2.2/100 mL
20. The desi gn influent flow rates are presented below in Table 5.
Table 5– Design Influent Flow Rates
Constituent Units Influent
Average Daily Flow mgd 0.29
Average Dry Weather Flow
(June to August)mgd 0.23
Peak Daily Flow mgd 1.4
21. Waste Activate Sludge (WAS) generated by the secondary treatment facilities will
be stabilized in aerobic digesters. WAS will be dewatered using a rotary fan
press or in shallow concrete lined channels. Dewatered solids will be further
processed by drying in a concrete l ined area that will also serve as a short -term
storage area. The District plans on mixing the dewatered solids/biosolids with
yard waste at an onsite composting facility at the Quartz WWTF (Quartz
Composting Facility) but initially will also dispose of bio solids at a nearby landfill
during startup of the WWTF and while District staff becomes proficient in
operating the composting facility .
22. The new Quartz WWTF began operations in May 2021 and it is estimated it will
require about 90 days to get the Quartz WWTF operating properly. Startup of the
tertiary treatment facilities will commence when the secondary treatment systems
have stabilized. Discharge of tertiary -treated effluent to LAAs or individual users
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 7
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
may not commence until the District has received final approval from the State
Water Resources Control Board, Department of Drin king Water (DDW) and the
District has been issued reclamation requirements (see Pro vision H.3) .
Quartz Composting Facility
23. The RWD proposes the District will operate a 10,360 square foot composting
facility at the Quartz WWTF. The July 2020 RWD Addendum states the Quartz
WWTF will generate approximately 125 to 250 tons of solids annu ally. Waste
activated sludge (W AS) generated at the Quartz WWTF will be stabilized in
aerobic digesters. The projected WAS solids generation rate is approximately
400 lbs per day. Following aerobic digestion, the RWD states the Quartz WWTF
sludge production will be approximately 300 lbs per day . The sludge will be
dewatered using a rotary fan press or in three concrete channels and a large
concrete pad. Drainage from the concrete pad and channels will be redirected
back to the secondary treatment s ystem. The dewatered solids will be mixed with
green waste and formed into windrows for curing at the composting facility or
disposed offsite at a landfill .
24. During start -up of the Quartz WWTF and while JSD staff gain experience
operating the WWTF , the solids produced at the Quartz WWTF will be disposed
of at a nearby landfill . The RWD states that the production and demand for
compost will vary during the year and only a portion of the solids produced by the
Quartz WWTF will be composted. Prior to comme ncing composting operations at
the Quartz Composting Facility , Provision H. 2 of these WDRs require JSD to
submit either a Notice of Intent for State Water Resources Control Board’s Order
WQ 2020 -0012 -DWQ General Waste Discharge Requirements for Commercial
Composting Operations (Composting General Order) or, if the composting facility
is not eligible for enrollment under the Composting General Or der, a technical
report that describes how wastewater at the composting facility will be managed
to pre vent discharge (i.e., infiltration) of wastewater to groundwater and a
composting operation and maintenance plan .
Water Recycling Considerations
25. Undisinfected domestic wastewater contains human pathogens that are typically
measured using total or feca l coliform organism as indicator organisms.
26. The State Water Board , Division of Drinking Water (DDW), which is charged with
establishing drinking water quality standards for the protection of public health,
has promulgated a criteria for the use of recy cled water throughout California,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 8
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
codified as California Code of Regulations, title 22 (Title 22), section 60301 et
seq.
27. The Quartz WWTF will have the ability to produce both secondary and tertiary
treated effluent. Secondary -treated effluent will cont inue to be recycled using the
TUD reclamation system regulated by WDRs and Master Reclamation Permit
R5-2002 -0202.
28. Tertiary -treated effluent will be reused at the Quartz WWTF for landscape
irrigation at the land application areas shown on Attachment E and will be
available to JSD customers and area contractors via the Recycled Water Pump
Station proposed for the JSD Quartz WWTF (Tertiary Use Areas) .
29. The District submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report , dated March 2019 , to DDW
for the Quartz WWTF for the proposed reuse of disinfected tertiary recycled
water. There is no proposed change to the TUD reclamation areas as they will
continue to receive secondary -treated effluent from JSD .
30. On 8 July 2019 , DDW responded to the March 2019 Title 22 Re port and required
the report be revised to provide additional information of the following general
issues:
i. Landscape irrigation at the Quartz WWTF ,
ii. Routine alarm testing ,
iii. Explanation of the supply source (potable or tertiary treated wastewater)
and proper signage at the Quartz WWTF ,
iv. Cross -connection controls and backflow prevention measures ,
v. Contingency Plan modification to identify the project as being in the
Southern California Drinking Water Field Operations Branch , and
vi. Additional information regarding the recycled water lines, signage around
the Quartz WWTF, and purple piping to ensure the areas that tertiary
treated wastewater is applied are adequately marked.
31. In response to DDW’s July 2019 comments, an updated Title 22 Engin eering
Report was submitted to DDW in September 2020. DDW has yet to respond to
the September 2020 Title 22 Engineering Report.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 9
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
32. This Order does not include reclamation requirements pursuant to Title 22. Per
Provision H.3 of this Order , prior to recycli ng tertiary -treated effluent from the
Quartz WWTF (for landscape use or at the Recycled Water Fill Station), the
Discharge r must apply for and receive coverage under State Water Board Order
WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW, Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Wate r Use
(Reclamation General Order). As part of the application for the Reclamation
General Order, the Discharger must provide a Title 22 Engineering Report
approved by DDW.
33. The discharges authorized herein are consistent with the State Water Board’s
Policy for Water Quality Control for Recycled Water (Recycled Water Policy),
Resolution 2009 -0011, as amended per Resolutions 2013 -0003 and 2018 -0057;
and Central Valley Water Board Resolution R5 -2009 -0028 ( Resolution in Support
of Regionalization, Reclamati on, Recycling and Conservation for WWTPs ).
Wastewater Collection System
34. The JSD wastewater collection system consists of approximately 76,960 linear
feet of 4 - to 18 -inch diameter pipe, flowing by gravity to the WWTP. The
collection system was originally built in 1950 primarily using vitrified clay pipe
(VCP). The collection s ystem was expanded /modified over the years and now i n
addition to VCP, pipe materials include concrete, asbestos cement pipe (ACP),
HDPE , and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). There are no lift or pump stations in the
JSD service area.
35. Peak wet weather flows have historically been an issue for the JSD WWTF.
WDR s Order 5 -01-062 states that, at the time of adoption, the Woods Creek
Facility had an average dry weather flow of approximately 0.22 mg. However,
peak wet weather flows, caused ma inly by an inflow and infiltration problem,
resulted in peak flows in excess of 1.1 mgd during wet years.
36. WDR Order 5 -01-062 required an Inflow and Infiltration Correction Plan, and
required annual Inflow and Infiltration Reports summarizing mitigatio n measures
completed during the past year and proposing measures to be implemented in
the coming year. The RWD states that collection s ystem improvements have
greatly reduced the infiltration and inflow to the system and the new Emergency
Storage Ponds at the Woods Creek Facility will provide 0.56 million gallons of
emergency storage .
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 10
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Sanitary Sewer Overflows
37. Sanitary Sewer Overflows3(SSO), which typically consist of a mixture of
domestic and commercial wastewater, often contain pathogenic organisms, toxic
pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and grease,
suspended solids and other pollutants. When an SSO resu lts in a discharge to
surface water, it can cause temporary exceedances of water quality objectives,
pose a threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic life, and impair
recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface waters in the area. The most
common causes are grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages, sewer
line flood damage, manhole structure failures, vandalism, pump station
mechanical failures, power outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack
of capacity, and/or contra ctor-caused blockages.
38. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste
Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems , State Water Board Order
2006 -0003 -DWQ (SSO General Order), which requires that all public agencies
owning or operating sanitary sewer systems with total system lengths in excess
of one mile enroll under the SSO General Order. The JSD’s collection system
exceeds one mile in length and JSD is enrolled under the General Order.
Industrial Pretreatment Considerations
39. Certain industrial wastes, when discharged to wastewater treatment facilities
without adequate controls, may cause one or more of the following problems:
a. Interference or Upset. Discharges of high volumes or concentrations of
certain waste constituen ts can inhibit or interfere with proper operations,
thereby impairing the WWTF’s ability to treat wastewater and potentially
preventing compliance with WDRs.
b. Sludge Management. Industrial wastes, particularly metals and other
toxic constituents, can lim it available sludge management alternatives,
3 For the purposes of this Order, a “ Sanitary Sewer Overflow ” is a discharge to ground
or surface water from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment
facility. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities ( e.g., wet wells, regulated
impoundments, tanks, highlines, etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and
discharges to these facilities are not considered SSOs, provided that the waste is fully
contained within these temporary storage/conveyance facilities.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 11
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
thereby increasing the cost of sludge management and disposal.
Contaminated biosolids may also be unsuitable as a soil amendment.
c. Pass -Through. Some industrial wastes may not receive adequate
treatment and pa ss through the treatment system in concentrations that
can could unreasonably degrade groundwater quality and/or prevent
recycling of domestic wastewater.
d. Other Hazards. Additionally, the discharge of explosive, reactive, or
corrosive wastes can cause d amage to the wastewater collection system
or the treatment works, as well as threaten the safety of workers and/or
the general public.
40. Currently, there are no significant industrial wastes being discharged, and/or
proposed for discharge, to the JSD Facilities . Consequently, an Industrial
Pretreatment Program will not be required at this time. However, this Order can
be subsequently revised to require compliance with an approved program , if
necessary .
Site-Specific Conditions
Topography, Cl imate and Land Use
41. The topography at the Woods Creek WWTF slopes generally to the east, with
elevation s ranging from about 1,335 to 1,360 feet above mean sea level. The
RWD notes that the site was graded for the construction of the existing
wastewater treatment facilities. The land surface at the Quartz WWTF slopes
gently to the east and ranges in elevation from approximately1,400 feet to 1,375
feet above mean sea level . The Quartz WWTF is on the western flank of a south
trending secondary canyon that includes the Quartz Reservoir.
42. Jamestown is in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada Mountain Range in a high
rainfall region characterized by cool to hot summers and generally mild but
unpredic table winters with temperatures dropping below freezing at times.
Average annual precipitation and evaporation in the discharge area are about
30 inches and 56 inches, respectively, according to information published by
California Department of Water Reso urces (DWR).
43. According to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Precipitation Frequency Atlas 14, Vol. 6 (rev. 2014), 100 -year and 1,000 -year,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 12
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
24-hour rainfall events are estimated to result in 5.96 and 8.39 inches of
precipitat ion, respectively.4
44. According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Flood
Insurance Rate Map (Number 06109C0850C) ( https://msc.fema.gov/portal ), the
Woods Creek Facility and the Quartz WWTF are listed as being in Zone X , an
area of minimal flood hazard.
45. Surrounding land use is primarily agricultural, rural residential, light industrial and
open space. The RWD ind icates that la nd uses in the vicini ty are mostly include
agricultural and low density residential. Typical crops grown in the area are
fodder crops and pasture grasses.
Groundwater and Subsurface Conditions
46. The RWD included a December 2018 geotechnical report , prepared by Crawford
& Associates, Inc. , that provided a description of the subsurface conditions at the
JSD F acilities . Soil borings and test pits drilled/excavated at the Woods Cr eek
Facility encountered alluvial materials consisting of predominantly sandy clay and
clayey sands to 2.5 feet below the ground surface (bgs) . The thin surficial
deposits were underlain by weathered metasedimentary bedrock to
10 feet bgs , which was overlying slate metasedimentary bedrock . Similar units
were encountered in soil borings and test pits drilled/excavated at the Quartz
WWTF. Clayey soils were reported to about to 3.5 feet bgs , with weathered
bedrock to 4.0 feet overlying slate metasedimentary bedrock .
47. A three well groundwater monitoring well network is present around the Woods
Creek Facility as shown in Attachment B. MW-1 serves as an upgradient well,
while MW -2 and MW -3 serve as downgradient wells. The depth to water typically
ranges from about 10 feet below the ground surface (bgs) in downgradient
MW-3, to about 30 feet bgs in upgradient MW -1. The results below are from the
Annual 2020 Groundwater Monitoring Report and represent the averages of the
four quarterly 2020 groundwater monitoring events.
4 Source: NOAA Precipitation Frequency Data Server
(https://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds)
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 13
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Table 6- Woods Creek Facility Groundwater Data (2020 Averages)
Constituent UnitsMW-1
(Upgradi ent)MW-2
(DowngradientMW-3
(Downgradient)
EC µmhos/cm 472 1,570 1081
TDS mg/L 303 1,188 800
Nitrate (as N) mg/L 0.2 0.2 0.2
Ammonia (as N) mg/L 0.2 10.2 0.3
48. The EC, TDS, and ammonia nitrogen results from MW -2 are noticeably higher
than those from upgradient well MW -1. The elevated results in MW -2 indicate an
impact to groundwater in the area of MW -2, which is directly downgradient of the
existing sludge storage lagoon and equalization basin .
49. In 2015, the average EC result from MW -2 was 600 µmhos/cm with a range of
549 to 703 µmhos/ cm. In 2018, the average was 951 µmhos/ cm, with a range
from 758 to 1,210 µmhos/cm . The EC values are increas ing in MW -3 as well. In
2015, EC results from MW -3 ranged from 598 to 649 μmhos/cm.
50. Central Valley Water Board staff issued a 31 May 2019 Letter and Memorandum
identifying the increasing salinity and ammonia concentrations in downgradient
groundwater mon itoring well MW-2 and required the District to submit a Work
Plan to address increasing salinity and ammonia concentrations in MW -2 and soil
conditions underlying the former sludge lagoon.
51. Blackwater Consulting Engineers submitted a Work Plan in August 2019 to
address increasing salinity and ammonia in downgradient groundwater
monitoring wells MW -2 and MW -3. The District’s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned upgrades propose to
modify and reline both the sludge storage lagoon and the equalization basin,
which should prevent furthe r groundwater and soil degradation. The MRP
requires continued g roundwater monitoring at the Woods Creek Facility to
evaluate the impact these upgrades will have on underlying groundwater quality.
52. The Quartz Reservoir is owned by TUD and is regulated b y WDRs and Master
Reclamation Permit Order R5 -2002 -0202 , which includes groundwater
monitoring requirements . A seven -well groundwater monitoring well network is
present around the Quartz Reservoir as shown in Attachment D. Wells M -1R and
M-3R were installed after the initial five wells and are adjacent M-1 and M -3. The
direction of groundwater flow is primarily to the south with M-1, M-1R and M- 5 as
downgradient wells and M -2 and M -4 as cross -gradient wells . However, the
reservoir is set in a s mall secondary canyon that slopes to the south/southwest .
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 14
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
The reservoir backs u p against a small geographic divide or saddle where the
ground surface slopes to the north/northeast . The saddle forms a hydraulic divide
as the groundwater flow north of the divide (measured in M-2, M-3, M-4) is to the
north/northeast as shown on figures included in the quarterly monitoring reports
The result is northern well M-3 and M -3R are downgradient well s. Depth to water
in the Quartz Reservoir groundwater monitoring wells during the Fourth Quarter
2020 monitoring event ranged from 9.53 feet below the ground surface (bgs) in
M-1 to 58.03 feet bgs in M -4.
53. Fourth Quarter 2020 groundwater quality results from the w ells set around the
Quartz Reservoir are summarized in Table 7.
Table 7– Quartz WWTF - Fourth Quarter 2020 Groundwater Results
WellTDS
(mg/L )Chloride
(mg/L)Sulfate
(mg/L)Nitrate (as N)
(mg/L)Total Kjeldahl
Nitrogen
(mg/L)
M-1 490 78 110 2.1 0.26
M-1R 570 99 45 7.5 0.22
M-2 250 7.4 19 < 1.0 0.22
M-3 550 31 190 < 1.0 <0.2
M-3R 440 21 79 < 1.0 0.26
M-4 250 1.2 5.9 < 1.0 <0.2
M-5 360 20 40 < 1.0 <0.2
54. The results of the Fourth Quarter 2020 monitoring event are all below applicable
water quality objectives apart from total dissolved solids ( TDS). TDS results in
groundwater monitoring wells M -1R and M -3 exceed the recommended
secondary M aximum Contaminant Level (MCL) of 500 mg/L, but they are less
than the upper Secondary MCL of 1,000 mg/L.
Legal Authorities
55. This Order is adopted pursuant to Water Code section 13263, subdivision (a),
which provides in pertinent part as follows:
56. The regional board, after any necessary hearing, shall prescribe requirements as
to the nature of any proposed discharge, existing discharge, or material change
in an existing discharge…, with relation to the conditions existing in the disposal
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2021 -0046 15
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT (JSD)
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
area or