wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the
calibrations (standard Provisi_on C.4);
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
6. The most recent annual water supply report for the City;
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids;
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2007-0115
CITY OF KERMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY -9-
b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow diagram;
and
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used,
include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method. ·
i. For landfill disposal, 'include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the facilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application, include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs that regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WO Rs that regulate the
site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of
facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and ·
iv. For composting, include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
8. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred; the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report shall be prepared as a
.fourth quarter groundwater monitoring report. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring
· Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly
groundwater monitoring schedule plus the results of any annually sampled groundwater
constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally
presented in the quarterly groundwater monitoring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following: ·
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
2. Graphs of the analytical data for all samples collected from each monitoring well, for
at least five calendar years. Each such graph shall plot over time for a given
monitoring well the concentration of one or more waste constituents specified herein
and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs shall be
plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in water quality, and shall
plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the previous monitoring events for at least the
last five calendar y~ars.
' 0 ' I C
C L~ I ,
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2007-0115
CITY OF KERMAN -10-
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
. Septage: The Discharger shall keep daily Jogs of septage received that includes, at a
minimum, company name, septage origin, and estimated quantity. A summary of this
information shall be reported in the annual reports monitoring reports. Daily logs shall
be kept onsite for at least five year$ and available for Regional Water Board's staff ,
review during an inspection.
All technical reports required herein m_ust be overseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer,.certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any
violations during the reporting period and all actions taken or planned for correcting violations,
such 8$ operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring--program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
1/~. ) · .
ARP/kes Ordered by: ~~-- ( __ (J1u_d1~ ·
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer hffn-tJ~~ l-fr )1)0 7-
/ ' (Date)
-a• .;~71·
~ ,.,... I
1-.
I
I ~----
1
I
Notto Scale ,1~
)
0Well
M 01
"'Well
F
I •, ;~.\ ··: ... ·"
'i ....
~--------- 1_ ---··
Well," ! ---
' --=-=-P.10
I --~:-·-=-=---. ,24 ,1 ~ r·
: n • ~i (, ~!.
It ~ i ,,,., / ) .
~6. l Im Ito ~t"'-:i -~-~ ,'."J \; •••• /
\ "--------,,,--· i _).,
\ t f ;;/ 1 ,-, J Radio a I o / 1 er. Tower
11• r "um1tn ,l I 1 Well, j ., , \ l~MJ>
111 I ; s~~sta
.... -.. ~ .•..• ~· "'' I, II ~=::i-===•v"""""""- J:li'•• ·'="• ................. -.= ..... ~ B~=l!J! I Lookout• •
~ ') \ ~208 - \ '
~~) "\ .
,, -:: \ \ --, · .. \ i, c:::.-:T,• \
Werr>:1200 o
·,.
\..._,,
~,~,.
'··~-
ATTACHMENT A-VICINITY MAP
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS RS-2007-0115
CITY OF KERMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
'FRESNO COUNTY 0
SECTION 13 T14S, R17E, MDB&M
l,ISGS 7.5 KERMAN QUADRANGLE Wells
·I \ f
i J
AEROBIC DIGESTER
'-SECONDARY
CLARI FIERS
I .
~ I
SLUDGE DRYIN-G BEDS ~o __ I/ CJ
cii
' -a
0
Ul
Biolac Lagoon _ )>
/ ~ r
-a (Former Aeration Basin) 0 z
CJ
~
· $torage Ponds A through B -.r,.
(Former PM Lagoons 1 through 3) "c---00 ~ -,-..
-----,.--
DISPOSAL POND# 7
(PROPOSE_D)
ai !:2 ~CJ Q
3 Ul ~ cii cii I
CD -0 CD -0 . -a ~o ~o 0 u, Ul g, Ul Ul
MW-2 !Ft)> ~~ )>
DISPOSAL POND # 8 ~ S' r r .. + "' -a ~-a -a
(PROPOSED) ;ii 0 oQ 0 il.z il.z z
'!!: CJ . 'It CJ CJ -~ .tl=i,i ~
~ N c,:,
--
40-ACRE CITY-OWNED PROPERTY
Notto Scale (PLANTED IN ALMONDS)
CITY STORM
WATER BASIN .
MW-3 +
ATTACHMENT B -PLAN VIEW MAP
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS RS-2007-0115
CITY-OF KERMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
Modified from Provost and Pritchard draft RWD MW-1 (not shown) +
CJ
cii -a
0
Ul )> r
-a 0 z
CJ
~
CJ1
CJ
cii iJ 0 en )> r
iJ 0 z
CJ
~
a.,
' ' .,
EXISTING WWTF
lnflueRt Pump Station
Headworks
Influent Sampling Station
Influent Distribution
Complete Mixed
Lagoon
Partially Mixed Lagoons
1 through 3.
Settling Ponds 1 and 2
Effluent Sampling Station
Effluent Distribution
Disposal PondsJ
(10.acres) I EXPANSION PROJECT · I
Influent Pump Station
Influent Sampling Station
Extended Aeration
(Biolac System)
1Return Activated Sludge
Secondary Clarifiers
Effluent Sampling Station
Storage Ponds A through C
\ Disposal Ponds (30 acres)
~-B-i_o_so_l-id_s_H_a_n_d_lin_g~~~---±
. LEGEND
WASTEWATER FLOW
SOLIDS FLOW --· ----•
ATTACHMENT C-PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5-2007-0115
EXISTING WWTF AND EXPANSION PROJECT
CITY OF KERMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
I )
WDRs ORDER NO. R5-2007-0115
. ATTACHMENT D
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
. MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
· MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
Prior to installation of groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall subm_it a work plan
containing, at a minimum, the information listed in Section 1, below. Wells may be installed
after staff approve the Work plan. Upon installation, the Discharger shall submit a well
installation report that includes the information contained in Section 2, below. All work plans
and reports must be prepared under the direction of, and certified by, a California registered
geologist or civil engineer.
SECTION 1 -Monitoring Well Installation Work Plan and
Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan
' .
The monitoring well installation work plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
A. General Information:
Purpose of the well installation project
Brief description of local geologic and hydrogeologic cqnditions
Proposed monitoring well locations and ration·ale for well locations
Topographic map showing facility location, roads, and surface water bodies
Large-scaled site map showing an existing on-site wells, proposed wells, surface water
bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities, utilities, and
major physical and man-made features
B. Drilling Details:
On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities
Description of drilling equipment and techniques
Equipment decontamination procedures
Cuttin.gs disposal methods
Soil sampling intervals (if appropriate); logging methods; number and location of soil
· ~amples and rationale; and sample collection, preservation, and analytical
methods
C. Monitoring Well Design (in graphic form with rationale provided in narrative form):
Diagram of proposed well construction details
-Borehole diameter
Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws)
Anticipated depth of well, length of well casing, and length and position of
perforated interval
.., Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand pack
Anticipated screen slot size and filter pack
WDRs Order No. R5-2007-0115
Attachment D -Standard Requirements For
Monitoring Well Installation Work Plans And
Monitoring Well Installation Reports
D. Well Development (not to be performed until at least 48 hours after sanitary seal
placement):
Method of development to be used (i.e., surge, bail, pump, etc.)
Parameters to.be monitored during development and record keeping technique
Method of determining when development is complete
Disposal of development water
E. Well Survey (precision of vertical survey data shall be at least 0.01 foot):
Identify the Licensed land Surveyor or Civil Engineer that will perfqrm the survey
Datum for survey measurements -2-
list well features to be surveyed (i.e., top of casing, horizontal and vertical coordinates,
etc.) · · ·
F. Schedule for Completion of Work
G. Appendix: Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP)
The Groundwater SAP, a guidance document that is referred to by individuals
responsible for conducting groundwater monitoring and sampling activities, shall
contain, at a minimum, a detailed written description of standard operating procedures
for:
• Equipment to be used during sampling
• Equipment decontamination procedures
• Water level measurement procedures
• Well purging (include a discussion of procedures to follow if three casing
volumes cannot be purged) ·
• Monitoring and record keeping during water level measurement and well purging
(include copies of record keeping logs to be used)'
• Purge water disposal
• Analytical methods and required reporting limits ·
• · Sample cQntainers and preservatives
• Sampling
-General sampling techniques
-Record keeping during sampling (include copies of record keeping logs to
be used) · ·
-QA/QC samples
• Chain of Custody
• Sample handling and transport
I I . I
WDRs Order No. R5-2007-0115
Attachment D -Standard Requirements For
Monitoring Well Installation Work Plans And
Monitoring Well Installation Reports -3 -
SECTION 2 -Moni~oring Well Installation Report .
The monitoring well installation report must provide the information listed below. In addition,
the report must also clearly identify, describe, and justify any deviations from the approved
work plan.
A. General Information:
Purpose of the well installation project
Number of monitoring wells installed and identifying label(s) for each
· Brief description of geologic and hydrogeologic conditions encountered during well
installation
Topographic map showing facility location, roads, surface water bodies
Large-scaled site map showing all previously existing wells, newly installed wells,
. surface water bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities,
utilities, and ·other major physical an<:I man-made features.
B. Drilling Details (in narrative and/or graphic form).:
On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities.
Drilling contractor and driller's name .
Description of drilling equipment and techniques
· Equipment decontamination procedures
Well boring log (provide for each well)
Well boring number and date drilled
-Borehole diameter and total depth
Total depth of open hole (i.e., total depth drilled if no caving or back-grouting
occurs)
Depth to first encountered groundwater and stabilized groundwater depth
Detailed description of soils encountered, using the Unified Soil Classification
System
C. Well Construction Details (provide for each well):
Well construction diagram including: ·
Monitoring well number and date constructed
Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
Length of well casing
Length and position of slotted casing and size of perforations
Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand
pack
Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws)
E. Well Development (provide for each well):
Date(s) and method of development
How well development completion was determined
J d .::i.;r
r. f_,;
WO Rs Order No. R5-2007-0115
Attachment D -Standard Requirements For
Monitoring Well Installation Work Plans And
Monitoring Well Installation Reports
_ Volume of water purged from well ~r,d method of d_evelopment water disposal·
F. Well Survey (provide for each well): -4 -
Reference elevation at the top rim of the well casing with the cap removed (feet above
mean sea level to within 0.01 foot) ·
Ground surface elevation (feet above mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
Horizontal geodetic location, where the point of beginning shall be described by the
California State Plane Coordinate System, 1983 datum, or acceptable alternative
(provide rationale) ·
Present the well survey report data in a table
G. Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling
How well was purged
How many well volumes purged
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization
Sample collection, handling, and preservation
methods ·
H. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
· Date(s) of sampling Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Labqratory analytical data sheets
Water level elevation(s)
Groundwater contour map
Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Present soil sampling data in a table
I. Well Completion Report(s) (as defined in California Water Code §13751). Blank forms are
available from California Department of Water· Resources' website www.water.ca.gov.
· Submit this section under separate cover.
J. Appendix -include, at a minimum, copies of the following:
County-issued well construction permits
Registered engineer or licensed surveyor's report and field notes
Field notes from well development
) .j !
rr <Ji
j
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0115
CITY OF KERMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
· Background
The City of Kerman (Discharger or City) operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and
qisposal facility 01\JWTF) for the residents and small industry of the City of Kerman. The
WWTF has an average daily flow of 1.2 million gallons per day (mgd).
The Discharger submitted a report of waste discharge (RWD) dated 9 May 2007 in support of
. a modification and expansion (hereafter Expansion Project) of the CityWWTF. The existing
WWTF provides secondary treatment of the wastewater stream. Treatment includes screening
to remove large solids, aeration, and sedimentation; Effluent is discharged to approximately
5 acres of unlined settling ponds, followed by 9.5 acres of unlined evaporation/percolation
ponds (Disposal Ponds). ·
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 5-00-050, adopted by the. Regional Water
Board on 17 March 2000, limits the discharge flow to 1.2 million gallons per day (mgd). The
WDRs also establish monthly average and daily maximum limits for settleable solids (SS) of ·
0.2 ml/L and 0.5 ml/L, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 40 mg/L and 80 mg/L, and total
suspended solids (TSS) of 40 mg/Land 80 mg/L, respectively. WDRs Order No. 5-00-050
does not reflect the configuration of the Expansion· Project.
The Expansion Project consists of a new Biolac System©, which is an extended aeration
treatment process that incorporates nitrogen removal. The Expansion Project will also include
modification to the headworks, new sludge handling and storage facilities, modification of
existing aeration lagoons and ponds, and construction of new disposal ponds.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Screenings from the headworks are placed in a dumpster prior to disposal at an offsite landfill.
Previously, the City did not remove accumulated solids from the disposal ponds, but instead
occasionally drained and dried the ponds and disked the accumulated sludge in the pond
bottom soils. The City has ceased this method due to the potential for oxygen demanding
substances, metals and nitrogen to leach and unreasonably degrade groundwater. The City
now drains the ponds and removes the sludge for offsite disposal.
In February 2001, the City was issued a Notice of Intent for .the application of approximately
700 cubic feet of biosolids on City-owned property planted in almonds to the west of the
WWTF. The City still has approximately 1,000 cubic feet of biosolids that are being stockpiled
onsite.
The City has not completed the design of the sludge handling and storage facilities for the
Expansion Project, but intends to construct reinforced concrete sludge drying beds for drying
sludge in the summer, and a mechanical dewatering system for during the winter.
J ,J \ : ~ ; I.!
,1 -~-.1 i
INFORMATION SHEET -ORDER NO~ R5-2007-0115
CITY OF KERMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY -2-
· Groundwater Conditions _
Regional groundwater flows south-southwesterly and the depth of water occurs about 90 feet
below grourid surface (bgs), according to information in Lines of Equal Elevation of Water in ·
Wells in Unconfined Aquifer, published by DWR in Spring 2004. An 80-foot thick modified
E-clay layer occurs about 500 to 550 fe,et bgs. Generally, water quality is better in the confined
aquifer below the E-clay. However, elevated uranium concentrations have resulted in the City
drilling additional drinking water wells to meet the primary maximum contaminant levels (MCL)
specified in Title 22 of California Code of Regulations (CCR). Most domestic wells in the area
are perforated below the E-clay, but some irrigation wells within the immediate vicinity of the
WWTF are likely perforated above and below the E-clay to maximize well production.
In 2002, the City began monitoring groundwater in three welis (MW-1 through MW-3) at the·
WWTF. Groundwater is not characterized in the area of the new Disposal Ponds to the west
of the WWTF. The upgradient well (MW-1) is much higher in EC, chlorides, and metals than
the dowgnradient wells (MW-2 and MW-3). The upgradient well (MW-1) may not represent
true background conditions. ·
One of the downgradient wells (MW-3) exhibits higher concentrations of total organic carbon
(TOC) compared to MW-1, based on results from one sampling round. Also, nitrate and
sulfate in downgradient wells (MW-2 and MW-3) were lower than the upgradient well (MW-1).
Further, arsenic in one downgradient well (MW-3) exceeded the primary MCL of 10 µg/L, but
arsenic in the upgradient well (MW-1) was only about 3.9 µg/L. The amount ofqata is too
limited to draw definitive conclusions but the groundwater downgradient of the effluent disposal
ponds may be in reduced conditions.
Compliance History
The Discharger consistently exceeds the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

