wastewater treatment and
disposal areas.
' .~
. " .. r,/-
t ~ )
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
MOUNT VERNON COUNTY SANITATION
DISTRICT WWTF, KERN COUNTY -'
f ~--...'\
! { )
. •,_ /
-4-
4. As means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No.
8.3, the dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of
wastewater in ponds or any impoundment shall not be less than 1.0
mg/1.
5. The treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a
100-year return frequency.
6. The effluent from the treatment facility shall not exceed the
following limits:
Monthly Daily
Constituent Units Average Maximum
BOD 11 5 mg/l 40 80
Settleable Solids ml/l 0.2 0.5
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 40 80
Y Five-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
7. The maximum specific electrical conductivity (EC) of the discharge
shall not exceed the average EC of the source water plus 500
umhos/cm, or a maximum of 900 umhos/cm, whichever is less.
8. The discharge shall not have a pH less than 6.5.
9. Use of reclaimed water shall be limited to surface irrigation of
fodder, fiber, and seed crops for nonhuman consumption, and for
construction purposes.
10. Irrigation or impoundment of wastewater shall not occur within 500
feet of any domestic well or within 100 feet of any irrigation well
unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Executive
Officer that a lesser distance is justified.
11. There shall be no standing water in any subarea of the reclamation
area 24 hours after each irrigation of that subarea ceases.
12. Storage ponds and areas irrigated with reclaimed water ~hall be
managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water
surface.
r./-" ;· I )
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
MOUNT VERNON COUNTY SANITATION
DISTRICT WWTF, KERN COUNTY :. ---.,
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides. -5-
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not ~ccumulate on the
water surface.
13. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means
as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
14. The storage reservoir shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate
wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary
inflow and infiltration during the nonirrigation season. Design
seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation
using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in ·
accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never
be less than 2 feet (measured vertically).
15. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity
shall at least equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge
Specification B.l4.
16. Storm water runoff from the irrigation fields shall not be
discharged to any surface water drainage course within 30 days of
the last wastewater application.
C. Sludge Disposal:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes shall be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with
Chapter 15 and approved by the Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be
reported to the Executive Officer at least 60 days in advance of the
change.
3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal
and state laws and regulations, and with Clean Water Act (CWA)
Section 405(d) technical standards when promulgated.
If an applicable management practice or numerical limitation for
pollutants in sewage sludge is promulgated under Section 405(d) of
the CWA after issuance of this permit and is more stringent than the
sludge pollutant limit or management practice specified in this
permit or in existing federal or state laws or regulations, this
order shall be promptly modified or revoked and reissued to conform
to the regulations promulgated under Section 405(d) of the CWA. The
Discharger shall comply with the limitations by no later'than the
n
' , r/·, : . )
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
MOUNT VERNON COUNTY SANITATION
DISTRICT WWTF, KERN COUNTY
compliance deadline specified in the applicable regulations as
required by Section 405(d) of the CWA.
D. GROUND WATER LIMITATIONS
The Discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause
underlying ground water to: -6-
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater
than