wastewater treatment and
disposal.
9. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each report due date the
specified document or, if an action is specified, a written report detailing evidence of
compliance with the date and task. If noncompliance is being reported. the reasons
for such noncompliance shall be stated. plus an estimate of the date when the
Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Board by letter
when it returns to compliance with the time schedule.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY -I 0-
10. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facilities described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or
operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately
forwarded to this office.
To assume operation under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply
in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must
contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the State of incorporation if a
corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the persons responsible
for contact with the Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the
signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3 and state that the proposed owner or
operator assumes full responsibility for compliance with this Order. Failure to
submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a violation
of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the
Executive Officer.
11. The Discharger shall use the best practicable control technique available to comply
with this Order.
12. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability. or in revision
or rescission of this Order.
13. Recycled water used for construction purposes shall comply with the most current
edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction Purposes."
published by the California Department of Health Services. Other uses of recycled
water not specifically authorized herein shall be subject to revision of this Order and
compliance with Title 22.
14. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the WWTF for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
15. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
I. JAMES R. BENNETT, Interim Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full,
true. and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board, Central Valley Region, on-28 March 1997.
WDH:wdh/rac -11-
. ·--------------·------··---
/~.
I ----7
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 97-053
FOR
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established with concurrence of the Board's staff. A
description of the stations shall be submitted to Board and attached to this Program.
INFLUENT MONITORING
Influent samples shall be collected at the inlet of the head works and at approximately the same
time as effluent samples. Influent monitoring shall be conducted at the flow-proportioned
frequency specified below and include at least the following constituents:
Constituents Units
B0D51 mg/1
Settleable Solids ml/1
Five day, 20°C BOD test.
During non-consecutive weeks. Ty12e of Sampl~
8-hr. Composite
Grab
To be initiated following startup of the modified treatment units.
EFFLUENT MONITORING Sampling
FreQuencv
Monthly2,3
Monthly2·3
Except for flow, which may be measured either at the headworks or outlet from the treatment
system. effluent samples shall be collected just prior to discharge to the percolation ponds or the
last pond in the treatment train that contains wastewater. Effluent samples shall be representative
of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection of a grab samples shall be
recorded. Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:
Sampling
Constituents Units Tx:12e of Sample FreQuencv
Flow mgd Metered Continuous 1
Conductivity2 µrnhos/cm Grab Monthly
pH pH Units Grab Monthly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
LE GR.A.ND COMMI.JNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
Constituents ~
BOD 3
5 mg/1
Settleable Solids ml/I
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/I
Nitrates as N mg/I
Standard Minerals4 mg/I
Reported Daily.
Specific Electrical Conductivity@ 25 °C.
Five day, 20°C BOD test. -2-
Sampling
T::x::pe of Sample FreQuency
Grab Monthlt
Grab Monthly
Grab Annually5·6
Grab Annually5·6
Grab Annually5·6
4 Standard Minerals shall include all major cations and anions and include a verification
that the analysis is complete (i.e., a cation/anion balance).
August.
6 To be initiated following startup of the modified treatment units.
POND MONITORING
Ponds shall be monitored as follows:
Constituent Unit Tvpe of Sample FreQuencv
pH pH Units Grab Weekly
Free board feet Observation Weekly
Dissolved Oxygen mg/1 Grab1 Weekly2
2 Samples shall be collected at a depth of one foot, opposite the inlet. Dissolved Oxygen
samples shall be collected between 0800 and 0900 hours.
If results indicate a concentration of less than 1.0 mg/1 or if offensive odors are noted.
the frequency of monitoring shall be increased as necessary to characterize the period of
non-compliance.
A permanent marker shall be placed in pond No. 4 with calibrations indicating the water level at
design capacity and available operational freeboard. In addition, the Discharger shall inspect the
condition of the ponds once per week and \.\.'Tite visual observations in a bound log book.
Notations shall include observations of whether weeds are developing in the water or along the
bank, and their location; whether burrowing animals or insects are present; and the color of the
pond (e.g. dark sparkling green, dull green, yellow, grey, tan, brown, etc.). A copy of the entries
made in the log during each month shall be submitted along with the monitoring report the
'., (' \
., \fONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM . .)•
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
\1ERCED COUNTY
following month. Where the Operation and Maintenance Manual indicates remedial action is
necessary, the Discharger shall briefly explain in the transmittal what action has been taken or is
scheduled to be taken.
SLUDGE MONITORING
The Discharger shall monitor the sludge production and quality in accordance with the sludge
production and disposal plan as approved by the Executive Officer.
WATER SUPPLY MONITORING
A sampling station shall be established where a representative sample of the water supply can be
obtained. Water supply monitoring shall include at least the following:
Constituents Units
Conductivity 1 µmhos/cm
Total Dissolved Solids2 mg/1
Standard Minerals3 mg/I
Specific Electrical Conductivity@ 25 °C.
Determined by EPA Methods 160.1 and 160.4 Sampling
Frequency
Triennially4
T rienniall y4
T riennially4
Standard Minerals shall include all major cations and anions and include a verification that
the analysis is complete (i.e., a cation/anion balance).
Samples shall be collected in 1998 and triennially thereafter.
If the source water is from more than one source, the results shall be reported as a flow weighted
average and include copies of supporting calculations.
REPORTING
Monitoring required at least monthly shall submitted to the Board by the 20th day of the month
following sample collection. Annual monitoring data shall be submitted with the Annual Report
described below.
~------·-····-- ···---· --- ~---·--------~---··-··-- ----~-------------
,_:
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY --+-
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be
summarized in such a manner that illustrates clearly whether the Discharger complies with waste
discharge requirements, including calculation of all averages, etc. If the Discharger monitors any
pollutant at the locations designated herein more frequently than is required by this Order, the
results of such monitoring shall be included in the discharge monitoring report.
The Discharger may also be requested to submit an annual report to the Board with tabular and
graphical summaries of the monitoring data obtained during the previous year. Any such request
shall be made in writing. The report shall discuss the corrective actions taken and planed to
bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
By 31 January of each year, the Discharger shall submit a written Annual Report to the
Executive Officer containing the following:
a. The names, titles, certificate grade (if any), and general responsibilities of persons
operating and maintaining the wastewater treatment plant.
b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations.
c. A certified statement of when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices
were last calibrated, including identification of i,.vho did the calibration (Standard Provision
C.4).
d. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manuaL and contingency plan.
reflect the wastewater treatment plant as currently constructed and operated, and the dates
when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
e. The total quantity of sludge disposed of during the previous year and ultimate disposal
site(s).
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order. -5-
Ordered by: --~~ib:..r:::::.~~::::::~~----­
JAMES . BENNETT, Interim Executive Officer
28 March 1997
(Date)
WDH:wdh/rac
II. L
I'
\, I\
BM
237
\
\
B
236
1 N Scale: 1" = 2000'
i =···
~ WWTF .. :..1E! . B
Reuse areas
AITACHMENT A
Vicinity Map
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
Section 30, T8S, R16E, MDB&M
Le Grand, 7.5' USGS Quad, 1981
Plains burg, 7 .5' USGS Quad, 197 6
'~--
INFORMATION SHEET
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
The Le Grand Community Services District (hereafter Discharger) proposes to modify its
existing wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) and collection system to increase the capacity to
0.35 mgd. The WWTF is operating at approximately 148% of its design capacity. The
Discharger has implemented a voluntary building moratorium until the capacity of the WWTF
can be increased. The proposed modifications to the WWTF will provide a long term solution to
the Discharger's current capacity shortfall.
The Discharger proposes to abandon its Imhoff tank and install a mechanically operated bar
screen. Existing pond Nos. 1 and 2 will be converted to partially mixed, aerated lagoons.
Existing pond No. 3 will be operated as a stabilization pond but will be designed for surface
aerators, to allow for future increases in WWTF flow to 0.50 mgd. WWTF piping will be
modified so that any one of pond Nos. 1-3 can be taken out of service for sludge removal or
maintenance. Wastewater disposal will be accomplished by evaporation/percolation from
existing pond No. 4 and by reuse on fiber, fodder, and seed crops grown in the 37 acre reuse area
and 15 acres of land recently purchased by the Discharger, adjacent to the WWTF. Sludge
removed from pond Nos. 1-3 may be land applied on the reclamation areas. In conjunction with
the WWTF modifications, the Discharger proposes to replace significant sections of the
collection system, including the WWTF lift station. Following modification, the WWTF will be
able to treat and dispose of effluent with a BOD5 of approximately 20 mg/1. This Order limits
the monthly average and daily maximum effluent BOD5 concentrations to 40 mg/1 and 80 mg/I.
respectively. The limits reflect the relatively small volume of the waste discharge and the remote
location of the WWTF.
Soils in the vicinity of the WWTF are San Joaquin sandy loams, Madera loams, and Marguerite
loams. These soils are typically moderately to well drained although internal drainage may be
restricted by hardpans at varying depths. Groundwater is approximately 120-150 deep and is of
good quality. The WWTF is bordered by agricultural land and is in within the 100-year flood
plains of Deadman and Dutchman Creeks. Surface water drains to Deadman Creek.
The California Department of Health Services (DHS) has established statewide water recycling
criteria in Title 22, California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 60301, et seq., (hereafter Title
22) for the use of recycled water and has developed guidelines for specific uses. Title 22
requires any discharger who proposes to recycle wastewater to submit an engineering report to
DHS for review and approval. Pursuant to a Memorandum of Agreement, the engineering report
must be approved by DHS prior to issuance of water recycling requirements by the Board. By
letter dated 13 November 1996, DHS approved the engineering report for the subject project.
Any comments provided by DHS have been considered and incorporated in this Order.
INFORMATION SHEET
LE GRAND COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MERCED COUNTY
The Le Grand Community Services District adopted a Negative Declaration on 7 November
1996 for the proposed project in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000, et seq.) and the State CEQA Guidelines.
WDH:wdh/rac:3/28/97 -2-