existing facility is exempt
from the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), in
accordance with Title 14, California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 15301.
12. The California Department of Health Services has established statewide reclamation
criteria in Title 22, CCR, Section 60301, et seq. (hereafter Title 22) for the use of
reclaimed water and has developed guidelines for specific uses.
13. The Board consulted with the Department of Health Services, County Health
Department, and Mosquito Abatement District and considered their recommendations
regarding public health aspects for use of reclaimed water.
14. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent
to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them
with an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written
views and recommendations.
15. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 85-173 is rescinded and the Lemon Cove
Sanitary District, its agents, successors and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained
in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply
with the following:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LEMON COVE SANITARY DISTRICT WWTF
TULARE COUNTY
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of waste to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated domestic wastewater is
prohibited. -3-
3. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' or 'designated', as defined in Sections
252l(a) and 2522(a) of Title 23, CCR, Section 2510, et seq. (hereafter Chapter
15) is prohibited.
4. Grazing of milking animals within the perimeter of the oxidation pond and
disposal area is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications
1. The monthly average dry weather discharge flow shall not exceed 0.02 million
gallons per day.
2. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the ·
limits of the Discharger's property.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Disch'1!ge ~pedfl~tion __ B~2.,. the
dissolved oxygen content in the· upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in the oxidation
pond shall not be less than 1. 0 mg/1.
4. The treatment and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
5. The effluent from the oxidation pond shall not exceed the following limits:
Constituent
BOD/
Settleable Solids mg/1
ml/1 Monthly
Average
70
1 Five-day, 20 • Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
-~~--·-~----------------- --------Daily
Maximum
120
0.5
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LEMON COVE SANITARY DISTRICT WWTF
TULARE COUNTY
6. The maximum electrical conductivity (EC) of the discharge shall not exceed
750 µmhos/cm or the average EC of the source water plus 250 µmhos/cm,
whichever is less.
7. The effluent in the oxidation pond shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater
than 8.5.
8. Pond cells shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular: -4-
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities
are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dea4 algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
9. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, or other acceptable alternatives.
10. The oxidation pond shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and
infiltration. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitaJion using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance
with historical rainfall patterns. -Freeooard shaltnever- he less· than two feet ------­
(measured vertically).
11. On 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification B.10.
12. Use of reclaimed water shall be limited to flood or furrow irrigation of orchards
and vineyards, and irrigation of pasture, fodder, fiber, and seed crops.
13. Public contact with reclaimed water shall be precluded through such means as
fences, signs, and irrigation management practices.
14. Reclaimed water for irrigation shall be managed to minimize erosion, runoff, and
movement of aerosols from the disposal area.
15. The Discharger may not irrigate effluent during rainfall when the ground is
saturated.
---·---------- ~~
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LEMON COVE SANITARY DISTRICT WWTF
TULARE COUNTY -5-
16. Stormwater runoff from the irrigated field shall not be discharged to any surface
water drainage course within 30 days of the last application of reclaimed water.
17. Areas irrigated with reclaimed water shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitos. More specifically:
18.
19.
20.
21. a. Tail water must be returned and all applied irrigation water must infiltrate
completely within a 48-hour period.
b. Ditches not serving as wildlife habitat should be maintained free of emergent,
marginal, and floating vegetation.
c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitos
shall not be used to store reclaimed water.
Signs with proper wording of sufficient size shall be placed at areas of access and
around the perimeter of all areas used for effluent disposal to alert the public of
the use of reclaimed water.
There shall be no irrigation or impoundment of reclaimed water within 500 feet of
any domestic water well or_ within 100 feet of any irrigation well unless it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Executive Officer that less distance is
justified.
-
Application of reclaimed wastewater to the reclamation area shall be at reasonable
rates considering the crop, soil, climate, and irrigation management system. The
nutrient loading of the reclamation area, including the nutritive value of organic
and chemical fertilizers and of the reclaimed water shall not exceed the crop
demand.
If the Discharger intends to use reclaimed water on crops other than pasture, it
shall first submit a written report demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the
Executive Officer, that management of reclaimed water and irrigated properties
will assure compliance with the terms of this Order.
C. Solids Disposal
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall
be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15 and approved by the
Executive Officer.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LEMON COVE SANITARY DISTRICT WWTF
TULARE COUNTY -6-
/ 2. Any proposed change in solids use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
D. Ground Water Limitations
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying ground
water to:
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than