consists of three screw pumps (one in service at a time), bar screen, grit
chamber, primary clarifier/dissolved air flotation unit, three activated sludge aeration basins,
and three secondary sedimentation basins. Solids handling includes two aerobic sludge
digesters, sludge thickening tank, th ree soil-cement lined sludge drying beds, and a lined
sludge holding area for dried biosolids. Dried biosolids are hauled off-site for disposal,
reuse, or further treatment prior to reuse.
Wastewater Disposal
Undisinfected, secondary-treated wastewater is discharged to the on-site disposal ponds.
Currently, there are eight unlined, on-site disposal ponds with a total surface area of
approximately 23.24 acres and a total storage capacity of approximately 139.4 acre-feet
INFORMATION SHEET
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020 -0001 2
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNT Y
 (45.4 million gallons) . In 2012, the Discharger purchased 4. 33 acres of land for potential
future development into disposal ponds. Newly ripped ponds have a percolation capacity of
about 1.66 inches/day, and the Discharger performs pond maintenance in accordance with
the Standard Operating Procedures ( Discharge Spe cification D.1 6) to maintain an average
percolation rate of at least 1.29 inches/day, which corresponds to a n approximate
0.85 million gallons per day disposal rate.
Wastewater reuse options have not been implemented at the Facility. However, this Order
requires the Discharger to prepare an evaluation of recycled water opportunities in the
community of Malaga , for consistency with Resolution R5 -2009 -0028 .
Soil and Grou ndwater Conditions
Soils in the vicinity of the Facility are moderately permeable and classified as Hesperia fine
sandy loam, consisting of well -drained, mainly sandy loam underlain by a silty layer,
according to the Soil Conservation Service 1962 Soil Sur vey of the Eastern Fresno Area.
First encountered groundwater is approximately 70-50 feet below ground surface,
according to the 2016 -2018 groundwater monitoring data submitted by the Discharger.
CV-SALTS Regulatory Considerations
The Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments incorporating new
programs for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the Central Valley at its
31 May 2018 Board Meeting (Salt and Nitrate Control Programs). The Basin Plan
amendments were conditionally app roved by the State Water Board on 16 October 2019 .
These programs once effective, could change how the Central Valley Water Board permits
discharges of salt and nitrate. The Salinity Control Program currently being developed
would subject dischargers that do not meet stringent salinity numeric values (700
µmhos/cm as a monthly average to protect AGR beneficial use and 900 µmhos/cm as an
annual average to protect MUN beneficial use) to performance -based salinity requirements
and would require these discharge rs to participate in a Basin -wide Prioritization and
Optimization Study to develop a long -term strategy for addressing salinity accumulation in
the Central Valley.
The level of participation required of dischargers whose discharges do not meet stringent
salinity requirements will vary based on factors such as the amount of salinity in the
discharge, local conditions, and type of discharge. The Central Valley Water Board
anticipates that the CV -SALTS initiative will result in regulatory changes that will be
implemented through conditional prohibitions and modifications to many WDRs region -
wide, including the WDRs that regulate discharges from the Facility. More information
regarding the CV -SALTS regulatory planning process is available online
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralvalley/water_issues/salinity/ ).
INFORMATION SHEET
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020 -0001 3
MALAGA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNT Y
 Monitoring Requirements
Section 13267 of the Water Code authorizes the Central Valley Water Board to require the
Discharger to submit monitoring and technical reports as necessary to investigate the
impact of a waste discharge on water s of the State . Section 13268 of the Water Code
authorizes the assessment of administrative civil liability for failure to submit requi red
monitoring and technical reports.
The Order includes influent, effluent, pond, supply water , and groundwater monitoring . This
monitoring is necessary to characterize the discharge and evaluate compliance with

===PLANNED CHANGES===

