DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
A. Eligible Discharges
The municipal wastewater treatment facilities to be covered by this General Order receive and
treat primarily municipal and domestic sewage (i.e., waste and wastewater from humans or
household operations), but may also receive and treat septage, commercial and industrial
wastewater , storm water, and dry -weather diversions from municipal separate storm sewer
(MS4) systems . This General Order does not authorize discharges to surface waters directly
MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS THAT MEET ORDER R5 -2017-0085 -0201
OBJECTIVES/CRITERIA AT THE POINT OF DISCHARGE TO SURFACE WATER NPDES NO. CAG 585001


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 from septic tanks or discharges that are comprised solely of non-municipal wastewater (e.g.,
commercial wastewater, industrial wastewater, or storm water).
This General Order covers municipal wastewater treatment facilities that provide secondary,
advanced secondary, or tertiary treatment. Secondary treatment facil ities are defined as those
meeting the secondary treatment regulations at 40 C.F.R. part 133. Secondary treatment
processes generally include a combination of physical and biological treatment to remove
biodegradable organics and suspended solids. Advanced secondary facilities provide
additional treatment beyond secondary (e.g., filtration). Tertiary facilities are defined as those
providing filtration and disinfection equivalent to the levels required by the State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board), Division of Drinking Water (DDW) reclamation
criteria at California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 22, division 4, chapter 3, (Title 22). This
General Order does not cover discharges that do not receive, at a minimum, secondary
treatment (e.g., primary treatment, equivalent -to-secondary treatment).
This General Order covers municipal wastewater treatment facilities that provide disinfection
using either chlorine or ultraviolet light (UV), but does not cover facilities that provide
disinfection u sing alternative disinfection methods (e.g., ozonation or pasteurization).
B. Screening Levels
Attachment C contain s screening levels based on water quality objectives/criteria. The most
restrictive criteria are necessary because this Order is a general order cover ing discharges to
all surface waters in the Central Valley of California. If municipal and domestic supply ( MUN )
is a beneficial use of the surface water, then th e most restrictive human health -based criteria
are used. If MUN is not a beneficial use, then the most res trictive human health -based
criteria are not necessary. If the aquatic life criteria are more re strictive than the human
health -based criteria, then the aquatic life criteria are used.
Upon receipt of a Notice of Intent for coverage under this General Order, the Central Valley
Water Board will conduct a reasonable potential analysis (RPA) using the screening levels in
Attachment C in accordance with the procedures detailed in section V.C.3 of this Fact Sheet.
If the RPA i ndicates that the discharge has reasonable potential to cause or contribute to an
exceedance of applicable water quality objectives/criteria for parameters for which

===PLANNED CHANGES===

