wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of.discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No.2, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of the storage pon,d shall not be less that 1.0
mg/1.
4. Effluent in the storage pond shall not have a pH ofless than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
5. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
6. The pond shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. fu particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that,small coves and irregularities are not
created around the perimeter of the waste surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, and/or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. . The Discharger's wastewater' treatment system shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with.a 100-year return
frequency.
8. Prior to 1 December 2002, the freeboard in the storage pond shall never be less than one
foot as measured vertically from the water surface to the lowest point of overflow. After
this date, the freeboard shall never be less than two feet.
9. The wastewater ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow, design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-265
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -7-
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return
period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with the historical rainfall
patterns.
10. On or about 1 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications No. 8 and No. 9.
C. Effluent.Limitations
The discharge of effluent in excess of the following limits is prohibited:
Constituent
BOD
Settleable Solids
· Total Coliform Organisms
D. Reclamation Require~ents: 30-Day
lJnits Average
mg/1 40
ml/1 0.5
J\1PN/100 ml 30-Day
Median
23 Daily
Maximum
80
1.0
230
1. All newly installed underground reclaimed wastewater conveyance lines shall be clearly
marked as such. All aboveground reclaimed water controllers, valves, etc. shall be
affixed with reclaimed water warning signs, and these and quick couplers and sprinkler
heads shall be of a type,· or secured in such a manner, that permits operation by
authorized personnel only.
2. Public contact with reclaimed wastewater shall be precluded through such means as
fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
3. Areas irrigated with reclaimed water shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. More specifically:
a. All applied irrigation water must infiltrate completely within 48 hours.
b. Ditches not serving as wildlife habitat should be maintained free of emergent,
marginal, and floating vegetation.
c. Low-pressure and un-pressurized pipelines and ditches, which are accessible to
mosquitoes, shall not be used to store reclaimed water.
4. Reclaimed water used for irrigation shall be managed to minimize both erosion and
runoff from the disposal area.
5. Direct or windblown spray shall be confined to the designated reclamation area and
prevented from contacting drinking water facilities.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-265
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -8-
6. Tl:ie Discharger may not irrigate with effluent during periods of precipitation and for at
least 24 hours after cessation of precipitation, or when soil is saturated. fu addition, the
Discharger may not spray irrigate when wind velocities exceed 30 mph.
7. The tailwate;rrecapture system must be operated to capture all reclaimed wate;r runoff, as
well as any storm water runoff that occurs within 24 hours of the last application of
reclaimed water.
8. To alert the public of the use of reclaimed water, signs with proper wording of sufficient
size shall be placed at areas of access and around the perimeter of all areas used for
effluent disposal.
9. There shall be no iinpoundment of reclaimed water within 1000 feet of any domestic
water well or irrigation well unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Executive
Officer that a shorter distance is justified.
;
E. Solids Disposal Requirements:
1. Collected screenings, grit, sludge, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer, and consistent with
Consolidated Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid
Waste, as set forth i1;1 Title 27, CCR, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 20005, et seq.
2. Storage, use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing Federal, State, and
local laws and regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards
included in 40 CFR Part 503 and the Statewide General Order for the Discharge of
Biosolids (Water Quality Order No. 2000-10-DWQ) ( or any subsequent document which
replaces Order No. 2000-10-DWQ).
3. Sludge and other solids shall be removed from ponds, clarifiers, etc. as needed to ensure
optimal plant operation and adequate hydraulic capacity. Drying Operations shall ta1ce
place such that leachate does not impact gr01mdwater or surface water.
4. If biosolid.s will be stored· onsite·between 15 October and .15 May of any year, then they
shall be stored in a facility constructed in accordance with Cla:ss II surface impoundment
or waste 'pile standards contained in Title· 27 of the CCR Such a facility shall be
designed and maintained to prevent inundation or washout from a storm or flood with a
100 year return frequency. The Discharger shall collect any leachate or stormwater that
comes in contact with the biosolids pile and return it to the wastewater treatment plant.
5. As indicated by the Discharger, beginning in December 2000, sludge from the plant shall
be disposed of' at an approved landfill appropriate for sludge disposaL
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-265
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
F. Groundwater Limitations: -9-
The discharge in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying groundwater to
contain waste constituents in concentration statistically greater than background water
quality, except for coliform bacteria. For coliform bacteria, increases shall not cause the
most probable number of total coliform organisms to exceed 2.2 MPN/100 ml over any 7-day
period.
G. Surface Water Limitations:
The discharge shall not cause the ephemeral drainage downstream of the storage pond to
contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background (i.e.,
upstream) surface water quality.
H. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall submit the following reports pursuant to Section 13267 of the
California Water Code:
a. By 31 January 2001, the Discharger shall submit a sludge management report.
------···--······. The plan shall include a description of the planned drying and storage practices.
b. To determine compliance'with the Groundwater Limitation, the Discharger shall
submit a Groundwater Monitoring Workplan by 31 March 2001 and a
Groundwater Well Installation Report within 180 days after the approval of the
workplan by the Executive Officer. The Groundwater Monitoring W orkplan and
Monitoring Well Installation Report shall be prepared by a Registered Geologist
and shall contain the information listed in Attachment B "Items to be Included in a
Monitoring Well Installation Workplan and a Monitoring Well Installation Report
of Results. "
c. By 1 June 2001, the Discharger shall submit a report which analyzes the problems
and inadequacies in the wastewater collection, storage, and disposal system that
limit the Discharger's ability to comply with Discharge Specifications No. 8
through 10 at the flow limits allowed by this Order. The report shall be prepared by
a registered engineer; shall include a water balance, shall propose modifications or
additions to the system to correct any inadequacies; and shall provide a proposed
timeline for improvements. The timeline shall include all actions necessazy to
comply with CEQA and to apply for updated WDRs, if necessazy.
The water balance shall calculate the monthly net flow volume into the system: Net
flow shall include influent, inflow/infiltration, design seasonal precipitation based
on total annual precipitation using a 100-year return period ( distributed monthly in
accordance with historical rainfall patterns), normal evaporation rates, and
measured percolation rates. The monthly net flows shall be compared with the
existing storage/disposal capacity of the effluent storage pond and disposal area.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-265
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -10-
If, based on this report, system improvements are found to be necessary in order to
comply with Discharge Specifications No. 8 through 10, and those improvements
are not completed by 1 December 2001, then by that date, the Discharger shall
provide a contingency plan describing, interim measures that will be taken in order
to assure compliance with Discharge Specifications No. 8 through 10 until long­
term improvements can be made.
d. If the Monitoring and Reporting Program indicates that there are petroleum
hydrocarbons in the effluent or storage pond, then within 60 days of notification by
staff, the Discharger shall submit a report showing that it has incorporated
additional petroleum hydrocarbon pretreatment into its treatment system to
eliminate the presence of detectable levels of petroleum hydrocarbons.
2. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 5-00-265,
which is a part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive
Officer.
3. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements
for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and
by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are
commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s).''
4. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or agreement
involving the disposal or reclamation areas, used to justify the capacity authorized herein
and a_ssure compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of
the situation and of what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full
compliance with this Or:der.
5. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each compliance report due date
the specified document, ot if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or
noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If noncompliance is reported,
then the Discharger shall state the reasons for noncompliance and shall provide a
schedule to come into compliance.
. '
6. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control techniqtie(s) currently
availab~e to comply with discharge linuts specified in this order.
7. The Discharger shall report promptly to the Board any material change or proposed
change in-,the character, location, or volume of the discharge.
8. Iri the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge facilities
presently owned or controlled by the Discharger, then the Discharger shall notify the
succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which
shall be forwarded to this office.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-265
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEW AGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -11-
9. The Discharger shall comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal
of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may
. result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court orders requiring
corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this
Order.
10. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
11. The Board will review this Order periodically and may revise requirements when
necessary.
I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regi al Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 8 December 2000.
Attachments
JRM:8 December 2.000

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL'WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO." 5-00-265
FOR
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring wastewater,
effluent, the storage pond, groundwater, surface water, and biosolids. This MRP is issued pursuant to
Water Code Section 13267. The Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and
until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive. Officer. Specific sample station locations shall be
approved by Regional Board staff prior to implementation of sampling activities.
All samples should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of material
sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of
custody fom1.
INFLUENT MONITORING
Samples shall be collected at the same frequency and at approximately the same time as effluent
samples and should be representative of the influent for the sampling period. Influent monitoring shall
include, at a minimum, the following:
Constituents
Flow
BOD/
Total Suspended Solids gpd
mg/1
mg/1 Type of Sample
Continuous
Grab
Grab Sampling
Frequency
Daily
Monthly
Monthly
1 BOD5 denotes five-day, 20° Celsius Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
EFFLUENT MONITORING Reporting
Frequency
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Wastewater effluent samples shall be collected between the treatment plant outlet and the effluent
storage pond. Grab samples are considered adequately composited to represent the effluent. Effluent
monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-265
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Constituents . , Units Type of.Sample
Flow gpd Continuous
BOD/ mg/1 Grab
Total Settleable Solids ml/l•hr Grab
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/lOOml Grab
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 Grab
Total Dissolved Solids mg/1 Grab
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/1 Grab
TPH-G,D,MO ug/1 Grab
BTEX ug/1 Grab
1 BOD5 denotes five-day, 20° Celsius Biochemical Oxygen Demand. Sampling
Frequency
Daily
Bi-Weekly
Bi-weekly
Bi-weekly
Monthly
Monthly ·
:l\.1;onthly
Quarterly
Quarterly
STORAGE POND MONITORING -2-
Reporting
Frequency
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Mo .. nthly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Samples shall be collected from an established sampling station located in an area that will provide a
sample representative of the wastewater in the pond. Freeboard will be measured vertically from the
surface of the pond water to the lowest elevation of the berm. Freeboard shall be measured to the
nearest 0.25 feet. Pond monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Constituent Units Type of Sample Sampling Reporting
Frequency Frequency
Freeboard Feet Measurement Daily Monthly
PH PH units Grab Weekly Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen mg/1 Grab Weekly Monthly
TPH-G,D,MO ug/1 Grab Quarterly Quarterly
BTEX ug/1 Grab Quarterly Quarterly
SPRAY;F'IELD MONITORI~G
The sprayfield shall be monitored on a dai~y basis when spray irrigation is being 9onducted. Spray.fie.Id
monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Parameter Units Type of Sample Sampling Reporting
Frequency· Frequency
Flow gpd Continuous Daily Monthly
Runoff gpm Estimation Daily Monthly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-265
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
GROUNDWATER MONITORING -3-
Prior to construction of any grotmdwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and
specifications to the Board for review and approval. Once installed, all new wells shall be added to the
MRP and shall be sampled and analyzed according to the schedule below.
Prior to sampling, the groundwater elevations shall be measured and the wells shall be purged at least
three well volumes until pH arid electrical conductivity have stabilized. Depth to groundwater shall be
measured to the nearest 0.01 "feet. Samples shall be collected using standard EPA methods.
Groundwater monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Type of Sampling and Reporting
Constituent · Units Sample Frequency
Groundwater elevation Feet Measurement Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/1 Grab Quarterly
Ammonia as Nitrogen mg/1 Grab Quarterly
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/1 Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/lOOml Grab Quarterly
SURFACE WATER MONITORING
The Discharger shall establish two sampling stations within the seasonal drainage which contains the
effluent storage pond: one station (S-1) shall be located 30 feet ups:tream of the pond and one station
(S-2) approximately 30 feet downstream of the pond. Surface water samples shall be collected during
those months when water is present in the drainage. Surface water samples shall be analyzed for the
following:
Constituent
Total Dissolved Solids
Ammonia as Nitrogen
Nitrates as Nitrogen
Total Coliform Organisms
TPH-G,D, MO
BTEX
1 When surface water is present. · mg/1
mg/1
mg/1
MPN/lOOrn)
ug/1
ug/1
2 Using a minimum of 25 tubes or five dilutions. Type of
Sample
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab
Grab Sampling and Reporting
Frequency
Monthly1
Monthly1
Monthly1
Monthly1
Monthly1
Monthly1
MONITORJNG AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-265
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
BIOSOLIDS MONITORING -4-
The Discharger shall keep records regarding the quantity of biosolids generated by the treatment
processes; any sampling and analytical data; the quantity ofbiosolids stored on site; and the quantity
removed for disposal. The recor.ds shall also indicate steps talcen to reduce odor and other nuisance
conditions. Records shall be stored onsite and available for review during inspections~
Ifbiosolids are transported off~site for disposal, then the Discharger shall submit records identifying
the hauling company;; the aniount of biosolids transported, and the loc_ation of disposal. If biosolids are
disposed of onsite, then the Discharger shall submit the annual report inform~tion as contained in the
Statewide General Order for the Discharge ofBiosolids (Water Quality Order No. 2000-10-DWQ) (or
any subsequent document which replaces Order No. 2000-10-DWQ).
All records shall be submitted as part of the Annual Monitoring Report.
1,IBPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that; the date,
sample type ( e.g., effluen,~, pond, etc.), and reported analytical result for each sample are readily
discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a mariner to clearly illustrate compliance with waste
discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable. The results of any monitoring
done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program .
shall be reported in the next scheduled monitoring report.
As required by the California Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, all
Groundwater Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct supervision of a Registered
Engineer or Geologist and signed by the registered professional.
A. Monthly Monitoring Reports
Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board on the 1st day of the second m,onth
following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 March). At a minimum, the reports shall
include: ·
1. Results of in,fluent, effluent, storage pond, and surface water monitoring. Data shall be.
presented in tabular format.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications and an explanation of any
violation of those requirements.
3. If requested by staff, copies oflaboratory analytical report(s).
4. A calibration log verifying weekly calibration of field monitoring instruments (DO, pH, EC,
etc. meters) used to collect reported data.
MONITORJNG AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-265
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -5-
5. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned or proposed
actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge
requirements.
B. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
The Discharger shall establish a quarterly sampling schedule for groundwater monitoring such that
samples are obtained approximately every three months. Quarterly monitoring reports shall be
submitted to the Board by the 1st day of the second month after the quarter (i.e. the January-March
quarter is due by May 1st) each year. The Quarterly Report shall include the following:
1. Results of groundwater monitoring. The results of regular monthly monitoring reports for
March, June, September and December may be incorporated into their corresponding quarterly
monitoring report.
2. Field logs shall be submitted for each well, documenting depth to groundwater; parameters
measured before, during, and after purging; method of purging; calculation of casing volume;
and total volume of water purged. -
3. Calculation of groundwater elevations, an assessment of groundwater flow direction and
gradient on the date of measurement, comparison of previous flow direction and gradient data,
and discussion of seasonal trends ifany.
4. A narrative discussion of the analytical results for all media and locations monitored including
spatial and temporal tends, with reference to summary data tables, graphs, and appended
analytical reports (as applicable).
5. · A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, groundwater limitations and
surface water limitations, and explanation of any violation of those requirements.
6. Summary data tables of historical and current water table elevations and analytical results.
7. A scaled map showing relevant structures and features of the facility, the locations of
monitoring wells and any other sampling stations
8. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) for groundw~ter, if requested by staff.
C. Annual Report
An Annual Report shall be prepared as the fourth quarter monitoring report. The Annual Report will
include all monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly schedule. The Annual Report shall be
submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of each year:
1. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the year.
2. Data for monitoring and analysis performed on an annual basis (i.e., biosolids monitoring).
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-265
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
3. An evaluation of the performanc€:l of the wastewater treatment system and effluent storage
pond, as well as a forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year. · · .
4. An evaluation of the groundwater quality beneath the effluent storage pond.
5. Summary of information on the disposal of all biosolids including volume removed anµ
location of disposal, and analytical results.
6. Whether the Discharger anticipates removing biosolids in the coming year, and if so; an
anticipated schedule for cleaning, drying, and disposal; -6-
7. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned or proposed
actions needed to bring-the discharge into -full compliance with the waste discharge
requjrements.
8. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring system
or reporting program.
The Discharger shall implement the monitoring program for treatment plant operations, influent,
effluent, storage pond, sprayfield, and biosolids monitoring as of the date of this Order. The
Discharger shall implement groundwater monitoring when approved groundwater monitoring facilities
are in place and operational.
JRM 12/8/00 8 December 2000
(Date)
Drawing Reference:
U.S.G.S TOPOGRAPHIC MAP
7 .5 MINUTE QUADRANGLE
Photorevised 19~4 ,­
'
SiTE LOCATION MAP
Moccasin Sewage Treatment Plant
Tuolumne County ATTACHMENT A
ORDER NO. 5-00-265
N
W__}\t__E ~ s
approx. scale
1 in. = 1,200 ft.

_,,--'-,
California Regional Water Quality Control Board
Central Valley Region
''' ':nston H. Hickox
Secretary for
Environmemal
Protection Steven T. Butler, Chair
Sacramento Main Office
Internet Address: http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/-rwqcb5
3443 Routier Road, Suite A, Sacramento, California 95827-3003
Phone (916) 255-3000 • FAX (916) 255-3015
ATTACHMENT B
ITEMS TO BE INCLUDED IN A
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORKPLAN AND A
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORT OF RESULTS Gray Davis
Governor
Prior to installation of groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit a workplan containing
the minimum listed information. Wells may be installed after staff approve the workplan. Upon
installation of the monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit a report ofresults, as described below.
All workplans and reports must be signed by a registered geologist, certified engineering geologist, or
civil engineer registered or certified by the State of California.
Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
A. General Information:
Monitoring well locations and rationale
Survey details .
Equipment decontamination procedures ·
Health and safety plan
Topographic map showing any existing monitoring wells, proposed wells, waste handling
facilities, utilities, and other major physical and man-made features.
J
B. Drilling Details: describe drilling and logging methods
C. Monitoring Well Design:
Casing diameter
. Borehole diameter
Depth of surface seal
Well construction materials
Diagram of well construction
Type of well cap
Size of perforations and rationale
Grain size of sand pack .and rationale
Thickness and position of bentonite seal and sand pack
Depth of well, length and position of perforated interval
D. Well Developmer;i.t:
Method of development to be used
Method of determining when development is complete
Method of development water disposal
California Environmental Protection Agency
0 Recycled Paper
Monitoring Well Installation W orkplan
Monitoring'Well Installation Report
E. Surveying Details: discuss how each well will be surveyed to a common reference point
F. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Cuttings disposal method
Analyses to be run and methods
Sample collection and preservation method
Intervals at which soil samples are to be collected
Number of soil samples to be analyzed and rationale
Location of soiLsamples and rationale
QA/QC procedures
G. Well Sampling:
Minimum time after development befor~ sampli:µg (48 hours)
Well purging method ai;id amount of purge water
Sample collection and preservation method
QA/QC procedures
H. Water Level Measurement: -2 -.·
The elevation reference point at each monitoring well shali'be within 0.01 foot. Ground
surface elevation at each monitoring well shall be within 0.1 foot. Method and time of water
level measurement shall be specified.
I. Proposed time schedule for work.
Monitoring Well Installation Report of Results
A. Well Construction:
Number and depth of wells. drilled
Date(s) wells dri11ed
Description of drilling and construction
Approximate locations relative to facility site(s)
A well construction diagram for each well must be included in the report, and should contain
the following details:
Total depth drilled
Depth of open hole (same as total depth drilled if no caving occurs) ..
Footage of hole collapsed
Length of slotted casing installed
Depth of bottom of casing
Depth to top of sand pack
Thickness of sand pack
Depth to top of bentonite seal
Thiclmess of bentonite seal
Thickness of concrete grout
Boring diameter
Monitoring Well Installation W orkplan
Monitoring Well Installation Report
Casing diameter
Casing material
Size of perforations
Number of bags of sand
Well elevation at top of casing
Depth to ground water
Date of water level measurement
Monitoring well number
Date drilled
Location
B. Well Development:
Date(s) of development of each well
Method of development
Volume of water purged from well
How well development completion was determined
Method of effluent disposal
Field notes from well development should be included in report. ' ' /
C. Well Surveying: provide reference elevations for each well and surveyor's notes
D. Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling
How well was purged
How many well volumes purged
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization
Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Water level elevation(s)
Groundwater contour map
E. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
WSW Date(s) of sampling
Sample collection, handling, and preservation method
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
C:\my documents\monwell_reqts
26 October 1999 -3 -

INFORMATION SHEET
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-265
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MOCCASIN SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
The City and County of San Francisco (hereafter Discharger) operates a wastewater treatment plant at
the Moccasin Powerhouse and the Retch Hetchy Water and Power Administrative complex. Wastewater
originates from the complex that contains 44 residences, a maintenance shop, the powerhouse ( domestic
waste only), and the administrative offices. The wastewater treatment plant serves approximately 50 to
60 permanent residents, 70 to 80 workers per day using the facility during the week, and 25 to 30
workers from remote locations that periodically use the facilities. The current dry weather flows are
approximately 20,000 gallons per day (gpd), with peak wet weather flows reaching approximately
70,000 gpd.
The treatment system consists of an extended aeration package plant, with disposal by means of spray
irrigation. Effluent from the treatment plant is pumped from the chlorine contact tank through a force
main to the effluent storage pond. The effluent storage pond is in a seasonal drainage, with an earthen
dam to increase capacity. Upslope storm water is diverted beyond the pond by means of a 48-inch pipe
that passes under the pond and dam. The capacity of the pond while maintaining two feet of free board is
approximately 480,000 gallons.
The Discharger has no record of overflows from the pond; however, a water balance for the effluent
storage and disposal system indicates that there is not enough storage capacity in the pond to assure that
two feet of freeboard is maintained during the wet season. Effluent is sprayed onto the 10-acre
sprayfield. A diversion ditch directs runoff from the spray field. Runoff can be directed back to the
pond, or can be routed around the pond and into the seasonal drainage below the pond.
The Monitoring and Reporting Program includes requirements for monitoring of influent and effluent,
the storage pond, the sprayfield, surface water, groundwater, and biosolids. In order to determine
compliance with the groun.dwater limitation contained herein, these WDRs contain a time schedule for
development and imple:r:nentation of a groundwater monitoring program.
JRM 12/8/00