FACILITY INFORMATION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for a population of approximately 
272,000 for the City of Modesto, the community of Empire, and a portion of the City 
of Ceres. The Facility consists of two different treatment facilities; a primary 
treatment facility  and a secondary /tertiary treatment facility located approximately 
6.5 miles to the s outhwest of the primary treatment facility . 
Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of two separate primary and 
secondary /tertiary  treatment facilities. The primary treatment plant consists of 
screening, grit removal, and primary clarification. Sludge from the clarifiers is 
transferred to thickeners, then processed and stabilized through anaerobic 
digesters. Digested sludge is transf erred to holding tanks where it is periodically 
drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant flows routed to the septage disposal 
station for blending with influent wastewater. The Discharger applies the stabilized 
sludge as a soil amendment on its 2,526 -acre ranch  under separate WDR Order 
94-030. 
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the secondary/tertiary treatment 
facility where the wastewater receives secondary treatment for irrigation of cropland 
or receives tertiary filtration and ul traviolet light disinfection for discharge to the San 
Joaquin River  or the Delta -Mendota Canal . Discharges of undisinfected secondary 
treated domestic wastewater  to cropland  are regulated by separate WDR Order 
99-112. Discharges to the Delta -Mendota Canal are regulated by Order 
R5-2022 -0034 (NPDES No. CA0085316 ). For the secondary treatment system  that 
discharges to land  per Order 99-112, approximately half of the primary effluent 
receives treatment with fixed film reactors and then is c ombined with primary effluent 
in an aerated recirculation channel. Flow in the recirculation channel is then 
distributed to three parallel facultative ponds for further treatment, and then 
transferred to one of two storage ponds before being applied to the  Discharger’s 
2,526 -acre ranch at agronomic rates. 
The Facility’s tertiary treatment facility consists of two parallel two -step membrane 
bioreactor (MBR) facilities. The Phase 1A facility consists of an oxidation ditch that 
provides activated sludge biolo gical nutrient removal  treatment, reducing 
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD 5) and providing nitrogen removal (i.e., 
nitrification/denitrification). The oxidation ditch is followed by membrane filtration and 
ultraviolet light (UV) radiation that disinfects th e filtered wastewater prior to storage 
or discharge. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment facilities (2.3 MGD) 
was completed on 1 July 2010. The Phase 2 facility consists of aeration basins for 
activated sludge biological nutrient removal treatm ent followed by membrane 
filtration and UV disinfection. The Phase 2 facility provides a tertiary treatment 
capacity of 12.6 MGD and was completed in the spring of 2017. The current total 
tertiary filtration average dry weather flow capacity is 14.9 MGD. T he tertiary treated 
wastewater may be reused on the Discharger’s 2,526 -acre ranch or discharged to 
the San Joaquin River. In addition, the Discharger has partnered with the City of 
Turlock and the Del Puerto Water District for the North Valley Regional Rec ycled 
Water Program. A separate NPDES  permit  CA0085316  allows the Facility to 
discharge up to 14.9 MGD of tertiary treated recycled water via a pipeline to the 
Delta -Mendota Canal, where it is beneficially reused  for agricultur al irrigation . The 
City of Modesto  30 June 2022
Water Quality Control Facility R5-2017 -0085 -020
- 4 -Discharger primarily discharge s to the Delta -Mendota Canal, and discharge s to the 
San Joaquin River occur only when a discharge to the Delta -Mendota Canal is 
infeasible. 
The Discharger separates cannery wastes from the domestic wastewater. A 
separate 60 -inch outfall transports cannery wastewaters to the ranch land located 
next to the secondary -level treatment facility. The cannery wastewater is applied 
directly to the ranch land at agronomic rates during the canning season (July – 
September). Land applicat ion of cannery and  undisinfected  secondary  treated 
domestic  wastewaters to the ranch land is regulated by separate Order 99 -112 
which also regulates all other waste discharges to land associated with the Facility  
and wastewater land disposal operations, ex cluding discharges of stabilized sludge 
to the ranch land that are regulated by WDR Order 94 -030.
Planned Changes
The Discharger previously conducted an antidegradation analysis for the full 
Phase  3 build -out discharge of 19.1 MGD . With adoption of Order R 5-2017 -0064  the 
Central Valley Water Board  authorized the discharge up to 19.1 MGD , contingent 
upon  the Discharger constructing the necessary facility upgrades . Phases 4 and 5 
are planned for the future with a full build -out tertiary treatment capacity of 27.3 
MGD.
II.