Wastewater System Operation Summary and Site-Specific
Requirements and Limitations
 Attachment 2: Figures
Attachment 3: Monitoring and Reporting Program R3-2024-0013

cc:
Jay Ketelsen, Monterey Bay Academy, jay@montereybayacademy.org
Mason Weidner, centralcoastwateroperations@gmail.com
Dave Nazari , Operator in Training, dnazari@montereybayacademy.org
Heather Reynolds, Heather.Reynolds@santacruzcounty.us
Danial Woldearegay, Danial.Woldearegay@waterboards.ca.gov
Corinne Watson, Corinne.Watson@waterboards.ca.gov
Jesse Woodard, Jesse.Woodard@waterboards.ca.gov
Jennifer Epp, Jennifer.Epp@Waterboards.ca.gov
WDR Program, RB3 -WDR@Waterboards.ca.gov
 ECM/CIWQS = CW -241299
GeoTracker = GT - WDR100033543
Rev 04/13/2023
Subject Name = Monterey Bay Academy WWTP Wastewater Permit
\\ca.epa.local \rb\rb3\shared\ wdr\wdr facilities \santa cruz co \monterey bay academy \1-
permit \order no. 2014- 0153\ for review \monterey bay academy noa mrp_jepp.docx

 ATTACHMENT 1
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SU MMARY AND SITE -SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS

1. OWNERSHIP AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Ownership and facility information submitted by Central California Conference of
Seventh- day Adventists to the Central Coast Water Board is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Owner and Wastewater Facility Information
Facility Name Monterey Bay Academy
Facility Address 783 San Andreas Rd.
La Selva Beach, CA 95076
Parcel Number s 046-371-01
Latitude /Longitude 36. 54' 18.99" N /121. 50' 20.96" W
Owner of Facility Central California Conference of Seventh -day Adventists
Legally Responsible
Official of Owner Daniel R Serns
Chief Executive Officer
Owner Mailing
Address P.O. Box 770
Clovis, CA 93613
Facility Billing
Address 783 San Andreas Rd.
La Selva Beach, CA 95076
Permitted Design
Flow , Max Average
Monthly (gallons per
day, gpd) Maximum average monthly 49,900

Baseline Flow
(average annual flow)
in gpd 35,000
Operator s Mason Weidner, Grade II
Waste type and
Service Area Domestic wastewater from standard connections from
faculty housing and school campus buildings.
Threat to Water
Quality 2
Complexity B
For Internal Use
Fee Code 58
Primary Place Type Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Type Municipal/Domestic
Facility Waste Type Domestic Wastewater
Monterey Bay Academy March 20, 2024
Attachment 1

- 2 -
 Regulatory measure
Type Enrollee - WDR
Reclamation Included No
EPA Approved
Pretreatment
Program No

Per the Report of Waste Discharge (filed on July 5, 1983), the oxidation/percolation
ponds are located on slightly sloping (5- 12 percent) topography consisting of sandy
soils to a depth of 55 feet. Depth to groundwater during the dry season is approximately
52 feet, as measured from onsite borings. Groundwater generally flows in a south- west
direction.
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system consists of a series of eight unlined oxidation/percolation ponds
covering approximately 2.5 acres throughout the Monterey Bay Academy facility . The
oxidation/percolation ponds are located on slightly sloped topography consisting of sandy soils. Two primary wastewater transport lines, each serving a separate sector of the campus, convey wastewater to the lift station prior to entering pond #1. Ponds are
designed to be self -leveling and the flow from pond #1 to pond #8 occurs in sequential
order. In recent years, only pond #1 and pond #2 have actively been utilized, while pond
#3 – pond #8 are used to temporarly store effluent when conducting maintance on pond
#1 and pond #2. Daily average flow into the ponds is between 35,000 and 40,000
gallons per day and t he system has the capacity to hold 9.5 million gallons of
wastewater. A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility site map
and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Pond Treatment , Disposal Technologies , and Capacity
Permitted Design
Flows Influent Maximum Daily Flow 70,000 gallons per day
Maximum average monthly flow 49,900 gallons per day
Grease Trap A grease trap is located in the school kitchen and is
maintained by staff monthly.
Headworks/Preliminary Treatment Grinder pumps are used in lift stations to grind wastewater
prior to Pond 1.
Treatment /Disposal Treatment consists of eight , unlined oxidation/percolation
ponds in series. The total volume of the eight ponds is
approximately 9.5 million gallons. The ponds also percolate wastewater and are the only permitted disposal
location.
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling The ponds are periodically drained and cleaned to remove settled solids.


Monterey Bay Academy March 20, 2024
Attachment 1

- 3 -
 3. WASTE WATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMIT ATIONS
Central California Conference of Seventh- day Adventists must operate the facility in
accordance with the General Permit1 and this notice of applicability .2 Historically,
wastewater from the treatment and disposal ponds had been occassionally reclaimed
on approximaltey 35 acres of nearby fodder crops, but is no longer being land applied.
Wastewater disposal outside of the ponds shown in Figure 3 is no longer permitted.
Central California Conference of Seventh- day Adventists must request approval from
the Central Coast Water Board prior to discharging to areas other than the specified
series of oxidation/percolation ponds. If the the Central California Conference of
Seventh- day Adventists wishes to pursue applying recycled wat er in the future, they
must submit a title 22 engineering report to the State Water Resources Control Board’s
Division of Drinking Water and the Central Coast Water Board for review and approval.
Central California Conference of Seventh- day Adventists must operate the pond system
to comply with the