Wastewater System Operation Summary and Site- Specific
Requirements and Limitations
 Attachment 2: Figures
Attachment 3: Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R3- 2023- 0022

cc:
Francisco Maldonado, Nipomo Community Services District , fmaldonado@ncsd.ca.gov
Cheryl Journey , SLO County, cjourney@co.slo.ca.us
Jesse Woodard, Jesse.Woodard@waterboards.ca.gov
Jennifer Epp, Jennifer.Epp@ Waterboards.ca.gov
Rachel Hohn, Rachel.Hohn@Waterboards.ca.gov
James Bishop, James.Bishop@Waterboards.ca.gov
WDR Program, RB3 -WDR@Waterboards.ca.gov GeoTracker
 ECM/CIWQS = CW -244360
GeoTracker No. = GT -
 WDR100033575
Rev 6/16/22
Subject Name = Nipomo CSD Blacklake Wastewater Permit
R:\RB3\Shared \WDR\ WDR Facilities \San Luis Obispo Co\ Nipomo \Nipomo Black Lake
WRF \enrollment in 2014- 0153\ 0153 enrollment

 ATTACHMENT 1
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY AND SITE -SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS

1. OWNERSHIP AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Ownership and facility information submitted by Nipomo CSD to the Central Coast
Water Board is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Owner and Wastewater Facility Information
Facility Name Blacklake Water Reclamation Facility
Facility Address 1400 Willow Road
Nipomo, CA 93444
Parcel Numbers 091-411-026
Latitude/Longitude 35.047806 /-120.544625
Onsite Manager Francisco Maldonado
Owner of Facility Nipomo Community Services District
Legally Responsible
Official o r Owner Peter Savcik
Owner Mailing Address PO Box 326
Nipomo, CA 93444
Billing Address PO Box 326
Nipomo, CA 93444
Design /Permitted Flow
(max average monthly,
gpd) 100,000
Baseline Flow (average
annual flow) in gpd 46,000
Operators Francisco Maldonado , 41275, Grade III
Waste type and Service
Area Domestic wastewater from 555 residential and 4
commercial connections.
Threat to Water Quality 3
Complexity B
For Internal Use
Fee Code 58
Primary Place Type Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Type Municipal/Domestic
Facility Waste Type Domestic Wastewater
Blacklake Water Reclamation Facility May 3 1, 2023
Attachment 1

- 2 - Regulatory measure
Type Enrollee - WDR
Reclamation Included Yes
EPA Approved
Pretreatment Program No

An unnamed intermittent stream is the nearest surface water body and is located
approximately half a mile from the Blacklake WRF . This stream meets Black Lake
approximately 3 miles west of the Blacklake WRF. First-encountered groundwater is approximately 200 feet below ground surface.
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The Blacklake WRF is a Class I Aerated Pond System. The treatment system is
composed of conveyance piping, lift stations, solids screening, aerated ponds, chlorine
contact chambers, and an effluent storage pond. T he system is described in detail
below and a summary is included in Table 2. A facility site map and dispersal system
layout are shown in Attachment 2.
A12-inch influent PVC gravity sewer line delivers sewage to the plant. Flow is divided
over two parallel comminutors. The comminutors are desiged to grind large solids that
pass through a bar screen and are operated continuously. If one or both comminutors
becomes clogged or is out of services, water level will rise in the influent channel and flow over a slide gate into a bypass channel containing a manual bar screen.
Wastewater flows by gravity through an 8- inch pipe from the headworks to the aerated
ponds. Aerated ponds provide both primary and secondary treatment . The three HDPE -
lined partially -mixed aerated ponds are operated in series. The ponds contain splasher -
type aerators. Water levels are contr olled at a depth of 9.5 feet utilizing an effluent weir
in the third pond.
An 8-inch SDR- 35 PVC pipeline carries flow from the Pond 3 effluent weir box to the
chlorine contact basin for disinfection. Treated wastewater is reused for irrigation at the
adjacent golf course. A chlorine solution is injected into the mixing chamber and mixed
with an air sparger. Flow can then be split into two chlorine contact basins. Each contact chamber is baffled and designed for a minimum of 20 minutes contact time at 200,0 00
gpd, to provide redudancy during peak flows. The effluent flow rate is measured at the end of each contact basin with a v -notch flume flow meter. Each contact chamber has a
dedicated flow meter. Grab samples are collected and analyzed to measure chlorine levels.
Although Nipomo Blacklake CSD was not required to monitor influent flows per Order No. 94- 14, the General Permit requires influent flow monitoring. Flow rate of wastewater
discharged to the headworks must not exceed 100,000 gpd as a monthly average. The
Blacklake Water Reclamation Facility May 3 1, 2023
Attachment 1

- 3 - Central Coast Water Board understand that the district will need to install influent flow
meters or demonstrate how influent flow does not exceed a monthly average of 100,000
gpd.
Sludge is dewatered onsite with a portable centrifuge and the biosolids are hauled offsite to Liberty Composting, Inc., in Lost Hills, CA. The facility has not dewater ed and
removed biosolids since 2019 when 338 tons of sludge were removed from Aerated Pond #2 and 93 tons of sludge were removed from Aerated Pond #3.
Table 2. Permitted Pond Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
Permitted Design
Flows Influent Monthly Average Flow - 100,000 gallons per day
Influent Maximum Daily Flow - 200,000 gallons per day
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment Two parallel comminutors grind large solids. If one or both
comminutors becomes clogged or is out of services, wastewater flows over a slide gate into a bypass channel
containing a manual bar screen.
Treatment Aerated ponds provide both primary and secondary
treatment . Treatment consists of three paritially -mixed
areation ponds with splasher - type aerators.
Disinfection Two chlorine contact basins designed for a minimum of 20
minutes contact time at 200,000 gpd, to provide redudancy
during peak flows
Effluent Storage Effluent is pumped to a lined effluent storage pond and
used as irrigation for a golf course.
Off spec water is recirculated back into the treatment
ponds.
Disposal Effluent is used to irrigate approximently 45 acres of
Black lake Golf Resort .
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
Handling Sludge is dewatered onsite with a portable centrifuge and
the biosolids are hauled offsite to Liberty Composting, Inc.,
in Lost Hills, CA.

3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Nipomo CSD must operate the facility in accordance with the General Permit
4 and this
notice of applicability.5 Nipomo CSD must comply with the site -specific limits listed in
Table 3.

4 General Permit sectio ns B.2, B.4, and B.6 are not applicable for this facility.
5 General Permit section B.1.b. states that treatment and disposal of wastewater must demonstrate best
practicable treatment or control for wastewater, w hich shall be demonstrated by compliance with the
General Permit ,