wastewater treatment and disposal ponds (lined and unlined) shall be monitored as
specified below:
Table 4: Waste water Pond Monitoring
Constituent Units Sample Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
DO
(see 1 below) mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Weekly Quarterly
Odors -- Observation Weekly Quarterly
Berm
Condition -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Liner
Condition
(see 2 below) -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
1 DO shall be measured between 8:00 am and 10:00 am and shall be taken
opposite the pond inlet at a depth of approximately one foot . Should the DO be
below 1.0 mg/L during a weekly sampling event, the Discharger shall take all
reasonable steps to correct the problem and commence daily DO monitoring in
the affected ponds until the problem has been resolved.
2. The Discharger shall observe the condition of the lined pond and check the liner for evidence of rips, tears, and/or leaks on a monthly basis. In addition, the Discharger shall conduct integrity testing of the pond liners once every five
years beginning in 2021 and include the results of the integrity testing in the
Annual report. Integrity testing shall include an electrical leak survey of the liner or other method that has been approved by the Executive Officer.
Caltrans 5 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5353
 SOLIDS DISPOS AL MONITORING
The discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e. g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids, etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported, the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility names and address, and copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be submitted as part of the annual monitoring report
REPOR TING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date, sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection results are readily discernable. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance with the General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any
monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the MRP
shall be reported in the next regularly scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.
All regulatory documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov
. Documents that are 50MB or larger should be
transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate Regional Water Board office, in this case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706. To ensure that your submittals are routed to the
appropriate staff, the following information block should be included in any email used to
transmit documents to this office:
Program: Non-15,
Place ID : 236772
Facility Name: Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF ,
Order: 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5353
A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly
Report is due by May 1
st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of
the Discharger’s authorized representative. At the minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:
1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the requirements (including the flow limitation), disclosure of any violations of the NOA and/or General Order, and an explanation of any violation of those requirements. (Data shall be presented i n
tabular format).
Caltrans 6 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5353
 3. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) and chain of custody form(s).
B. Annual Report
Annual Reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board by March 1st
following the monitoring year. The Annual Report shall include the fol lowing:
1. Tabular and graphical summaries of all monitoring data collected during the year.
2. An evaluation of the performance of the wastewater treatment system, including discussion of the capacity issues nuisances’ conditions, system problems and a forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year. A flow rate evaluation, as
described in the General Order (Provision E.2.c), shall also be submitted.
3. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any
planned or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into compliance with the NOA and/or General Order.
4. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the
monitoring system or reporting program.
5. The name and contact information for the wastewat er operator responsible for
operation, maintenance, and system monitoring.
6. The results of monthly pond liner observations and quinquennial integrity testing
of the pond liner.
C. State Water Board Volumetric Annual Reporting
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy

(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/ ),
amended in Decembe r 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water
are required to report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced, and effluent, including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall submit an annual report to the S tate Water Board by April 30 of each calendar
year furnished with the information detailed below . The Discharger must submit this
annual report containing monthly data in electronic format via the State Water
Board’s
Internet GeoTracker system (http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/ ).
Required data shall be submitted to the GeoTracker database under a site- specific
global identification number. Any data will be made publicly accessible as machine
readable datasets. The Discharger must report all applicable items listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of wastewater collected and treated by the wastewater
treatment plant.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of treatment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to l and, where
beneficial use is not taking place, including evaporation or percolation ponds,
Caltrans 7 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5353
 overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding pasture of fields with
harvested gro unds.
4. Reuse. Monthly volume of recycled water distributed.
5. Reuse Categories. Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for
beneficial use in compliance with California Code of Regulations, title 22 in each of the use categories listed below:
a. Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
b. Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and playgrounds; school yards; athletic fields; cemeteries; residential landscaping, common areas; commercial landscaping; industrial landscapin g; and freeway,
highway, and street landscaping.
c. Golf course irrigation: irrigation of golf courses, including water used to maintain aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
d. Commercial application: commercial facilities, business use (such as laundries and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and
appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
e. Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, process
water, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately m etered.
f. Geothermal energy production: augmentation of geothermal fields.
g. Other non- potable uses: including but not limited to dust control, flushing
sewers, fire protection, fill stations, snow making, and recreational
impoundments.
h. Groundwater recharge: the planned use of recycled water for replenishment of a groundwater basin or an aquifer that has been
designated as a source of water supply for a public water system. Includes surface or subsurface application, except for seawater i ntrusion barrier
use.
i. Reservoir water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a raw surface water reservoir used as a source of domestic drinking water supply for a public water system, as defined in section 116275 of the Health and S afety Code, or into a constructed system conveying water
to such a reservoir (Water Code § 13561).
j. Raw water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a
system of pipelines or aqueducts that deliver raw water to a drinking water
treatment plant that provides water to a public water system as defined in section 116275 of the Health and Safety Code (Water Code § 13561).

Caltrans 2 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5353
 GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least
eight aliquots over a 24- hour period.
Daily Every day except weekends or holidays.
Twice Weekly Twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Once per week.
Twice Monthly Twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Once per calendar month.
Quarterly Once per calendar quarter.
Semiannually Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) during non-
consecutive quarters.
Annually Once per year.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
NA Denotes not applicable



Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board
TO: Scott J. Hatton
Supervising Water Resource Control Enginee r
FROM : Alexander S. Mushegan
Senior Water Resource Control Engineer
RCE 84208
Jeffrey S. Pyle
Engineering Geologist
PG 73 75
DATE : 14 June 2021
APPLICABILITY OF COVERAGE UNDER STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL
BOARD ORDER WQ -2014- 0153; GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS; CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ; TEJON PASS SAFETY ROADSIDE REST
AREA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY; KERN COUNTY
On 7 July 2020 , Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board (Central Valley
Water Board) staff received a Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) from the California
Department of Transp ortation (Discharger or Caltrans ) for the Tejon Pass Safety
Roadside Rest Area Wastewater Treatment Facility (Facility) in Kern County. The July
2020 RWD was not stamped by a licensed professional. On 17 February 2021, Caltrans submitted a copy of the RWD that was signed and stamped by a California registered
civil engineer, Manjunath Akkipeddi (RCE 78898) , and a completed and signed
Form 200. The Facility has domestic wastewater flows less than 100,000 gallons per
day (gpd). Therefore, t his memorandum provides a summary of the applicability of the
Facility to be covered under State Water Resources Control Board’s Order
WQ 2014 -0153- DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for Small Domestic
Wastewater Treatment Systems (General Order).

Caltrans 2 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
Staff Memorandum
 BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Caltrans owns and operates the Facility. The Facility receives wastewater from the
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area (Rest Area), which has comfort stations on both
the north and southbound sides of Highway I -5, about 35 miles south of Bakersfield
(34.8273°, -118.8714°) in Kern County. The Facility is currently regulated by Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 93-051, which authorizes a monthly
average discharge of up to 8 0,000 gallons per day from the two comfort stations to
10 septic tanks followed by a primary treatment pond and four infiltration ponds.
According to the RWD, using the Facility’s water usage data from 2016 through 2018
the average flows combined from both comfort stations we re estimated at about
21,800 gpd with a peak flow of 42,900 gpd.
DESCRI PTION OF DISCHARGE
The Rest Area consists of two comfort stations (Northbound Comfort Station and
Southbound Comfort Station). Each comfort station is equipped with 21 toilets
(1.6 gallons per flush [GPF] ), 15 lav atories, and six urinals (0.5 GPF) . Each comfort
station discharges wastewater into four 9,000- gallon onsite concrete septic tanks . An
additional RV sanitary station is available at each comfort station . Sewage from the
Southbound Comfort Station gravity flows to a distribution box located on northbound
side where it’s commingled with wastewater from the Northbound Comfort Station. The
combined effluent gravity flows to the facultative wastewater treatment pond (Primary
Treatment Pond) , which is H ypalon lined (30-millimeter) and has three evenly spaced
aerators. Wastewater from the Primary Treatment Pond is discharged to four infiltration
ponds (Infiltration Ponds) all constructed in 1981 when the rest area was initially
opened. All treatment ponds were constructed with native material with two feet of
freeboard. Table 1 below shows the pond specific ations .
Table 1: Facultative Pond System Specifications
Pond Depth
(feet) Side
Slope Area
(square feet)
Primary Treatment Pond 5 3:1 115,546
Infiltration Pond A 5 3:1 28,469
Infiltration Pond B 5 3:1 21,127
Infiltration Pond C 5 3:1 24,261
Infiltration Pond D 5 3:1 15,519
The RWD estimated the influent quality to be approximately 450 mg/L for BOD and 1,200 mg/L for TSS. The concentration levels were calculated based on the average
flow. The RWD states that the Primary Treatment Pond produces effluent with BOD
levels lower than 90 mg/L. According to the RWD, the necess ary retention time in the
Primary Treatment Pond to treat wastewater to less than 90 mg/L is 69 days and that
the pond’s size allows retention times “much longer than the required 69 days.”
Caltrans 3 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
Staff Memorandum
 WDRs Order 93 -051 requires monitoring reports be submitted monthly to the Central
Valley Water Board by the 29th day of the following month, but an electronic file review
found that i nfluent and effluent monitoring results for the Facility have not been
submitted since 2014. A Notice of Violation was issued on 23 February 2021 requiring
Caltrans to provide any missing data and a letter describing how Caltrans will ensure
future compliance with the current/ future waste discharge requirements for the Facility
by 26 March 2021. Caltrans contacted Central Valley Water Board staff on
22 March 2021 requesting a deadline extension. A one -month extension was granted,
and the requested letter dated 24 April 2021 was submitted to the Central Valley Water
Board. The 24 April 2021 letter explains Caltrans does not have any reports to be
submitted for previous years, but Caltrans will utilize a sub -contractor to provide
monitoring and repor ting services to bring the facility into compliance with the Facility’s
WDRs .
The Facility’s monthly average discharge is under 100,000 gallons per day (gpd) and is
therefore eligible for coverage under the General Order. The current discharge is approximately 21 ,800 gpd.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Rest Area is located within the Tulare Lake Hydrologic Area with the wastewater
treatment outside any floodplain area. Based on information gathered from the California Department Groundwater Information Center Interactive Map Application

(https://gis.water.ca.gov/app/gicima/ ) using Spring 2018 data, groundwater underlying
the disposal ponds is approximately 690 feet below ground surface.
According to Table 5 from the RWD, data from 2016 was provided to identify source
water quality at the Rest Area and is presented for review in Table 2.
Table 2: Source Water Quality for Tejon Pass SRRA
Constituent Units Concentration MCL
Sodium mg/L 74.3 None
Hardness mg/L 363 None
Arsenic ug/L <2 10
Chromium ug/L <10 50
Fluoride mg/L 1.79 2
Nitrate (as NO 3) mg/L 22.5 45
Nitrite ug/L 0.05 1
Chloride mg/L 31 5000
Iron ug/L <50 300
Magnesium mg/L 36 50
TDS mg/L 610 1000
Turbidity NTU 0.2 5
Caltrans 4 14 June 2021
Tejon Pass Safety Roadside Rest Area WWTF
Staff Memorandum
 Based on soils data from the Natural Resources Conservation Services Survey (NRCS),
soil at the Rest Area was identified as Hawk gravelly sandy loam with 9 to 15 percent
slope with soil profiles summarized in Table 3 below. Groundwater was encountered at
an approximate depth of 80 feet below ground surface. The site consists of sandy gravel with a percolation rate ranging from 1 to 7.5 inch es/hour with an average of
3.7 inches /hour .
Table 3: Soil Profile Tejon Pass SRRA
Soil Profile Soil Depth
(inches)
Gravelly slightly decomposed plant material 0 – 2
Gravelly sandy loam 2 – 7
Very gravelly sandy loam 7 - 17
Very gravelly sandy loam 17 – 39
Very gravelly sandy loam 39 - 60
NITROGEN EVALUATION
As stated above, the Facility has a design flow of 80,000 gpd and currently has an
estimated average daily flow of 21,800 gpd. Therefore, the General Order requires a
Nitrogen