wastewater treatment and disposal ponds shall be monitored as specified below:
Table 3 – Pond Monitoring
Constituent Units Sample
Type Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen
(see 1 below) mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Weekly Quarterly
Odors -- Observation Weekly Quarterly
Berm Condition -- Observation Monthly Quarterly
1. DO shall be measured between 8:00 am and 10:00 am and shall be taken opposite the pond inlet at a depth of approximately one foot, when there is sufficient water in the pond(s). If there is insufficient water in the pond(s) no sample shall be collected and the reason provided in the quarterly monitoring report. Should the DO be below 1.0 mg/L during a monthly sampling event, the Discharger shall take all reasonable steps to correct the problem and commence daily DO monitoring in the affected ponds until the problem has been resolved.
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONIT ORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit, sludge, biosolids, ect) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste
transported, the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name
and address, and copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste.
These records shall be submitted as par t of the annual monitoring report.
Tranquillity Public Utility District - 4 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5361
 REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so
that the date, sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection results are readily discernable. The data shall be summarized to clearly
illustrate compliance with the General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the MRP shall be reported in the next r egularly scheduled monitoring report and shall be included
in calculations as appropriate.
All regulatory documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and
correspondence should be converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF)
and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov
. Documents that are 50MB or larger should be
transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate Regional Water Board office, in this
case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706. To ensure that your submittals are routed to the
appropriate staff, the following information block should be included in any email used to
transmit documents to this office:
Program: Non-15,
Place ID: 273195,
Facility Name: Tranquillity WWTF,
Order: 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5361
A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of
the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is
due by May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the
Discharger’s authorized representative. At the minimum, the quarterly reports shall
include:
1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the requirements (including the flow limitation), disclosure of any violations of the NOA and/or General Order, and
an explanation of any violation of those requirements. Data shall be
presented in tabular format.
3. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) and chain of custody form(s).
B. Annual Report
Annual Reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board by February 1
st
following the monitoring year. The Annual Report shall include the following:
1. Tabular and graphical summaries of all monitoring data collected during the year.
Tranquillity Public Utility District - 5 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5361
 2. An evaluation of the performance of the wastewater treatment system, including
discussion of the capacity issues nuisances’ conditions, system problems and a
forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year. A flow rate evaluation, as
described in the General Order (Provision E.2.c), shall also be submitted.
3. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any
planned or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into compliance with
the NOA and/or General Order.
4. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring system or reporting program.
5. The name and contact information for the wastewater operat or responsible for
operation, maintenance, and system monitoring.
C. State Water Board Volumetric Annual Reporting
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy

(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/), amended in December 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water are required to report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced, and effluent, i ncluding treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall
submit an annual report to the State Water Board by April 30 of each calendar year furnished with the information detailed below. The Discharger must submit this annual report containing monthly data in electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet
GeoTracker system (http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/).
Required data shall be submitted to the GeoTracker database under a site- specific
global identification number. Any data will be made publicly accessible as machine readable datasets. The Discharger must report all applicable items listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of wastewater collected and treated by the
wastewater treatment plant.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of
treatment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to land, where
beneficial use is not taking place, including evaporation or percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding pasture of fields with
harvested grounds.
4. Reuse. Monthly volume of recycled water distributed.
5. Reuse Categories. Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for
beneficial use in compliance with California Code of Regulations, title 22 in each of the use categories listed below:
Tranquillity Public Utility District - 6 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5361
 a. Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
b. Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and playgrounds;
school yards; athletic fields; cemeteries; residential landscaping, common areas; commercial landscaping; industrial landscaping; and freeway, highway, and street landscaping.
c. Golf course irrigation: irr igation of golf courses, including water used to
maintain aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
d. Commercial application: commercial facilities, business use (such as laundries and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
e. Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, process water, and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
f. Geothermal energy production: augmentation of geothermal fields.
g. Other non- potable uses: including but not limited to dust control, flushing
sewers, fire protection, fill stations, snow making, and recreational impoundments.
h. Groundwater recharge: the planned use of recycled water for replenishment of a groundwater basin or an aquifer that has been designated as a source of water supply for a public water system. Includes
surface or subsurface application, except for seawater intrusion barrier
use.
i. Reservoir water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a raw surface water reservoir used as a source of domestic drinking water supply for a public water system, as defined in section 116275 of
the Health and Safety Code, or into a constructed system conveying water
to such a reservoir (Water Code § 13 561).
j. Raw water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a
system of pipelines or aqueducts that deliver raw water to a drinking water
treatment plant that provides water to a public water system as defined in
section 116275 of the Health and Safety Code (Water Code § 13561).
k. Other potable uses: both indirect and direct potable reuse other than for
groundwater recharge, seawater intrusion barrier, reservoir water
augmentation, or raw water augmentation
A letter transmitting the monit oring reports shall accompany each report. The letter shall
report violations found during the reporting period, and actions taken or planned to
correct the violations and prevent future violations. The transmittal letter shall contain

Tranquillity Public Utility District - 2 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
MRP 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5361
 GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least
eight aliquots over a 24- hour period.
Daily Every day except weekends or holidays.
Twice Weekly Twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Once per week.
Twice Monthly Twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Once per calendar month.
Quarterly Once per calendar quarter.
Semiannually Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) during non-
consecutive quarters.
Annually Once per year.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
NA Denotes not applicable

Tranquillity Public Utility District - 2 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
 effluent samples at a location inconsistent with t he requirements of the MRP, and ( 3) for
exceeding the effluent electrical conductivity (EC) limit. In a 27 September 2016 letter,
Giersch & Associates, Inc. responded to the NOV on behalf of the Discharger ; in part,
the response stated that the clarigester was no longer functioning and recommended
the Order be amended to allow the treatment via the facultative ponds. The response letter also recommend ed the District install a bar screen but states that due to limited
funding that the District would need to obtain grant funding. The RWD does not indicate
a bar screen was installed since the NOV response letter was received.
An 11 January 2017 Giersh and Associates, Inc. email requested a reduction in
monitoring frequency from three times per week to weekly for daily flow, EC , settleable
matter and dissolved oxygen. A revised MRP was issued for the facility on 26 April
2017.
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The Facility consists of six stabilization ponds which operate in series. Influent enters
Pond 3 and overflows to ponds 2, 1, 4, 5, and 6. Two additional ponds referred to as
Irrigation Lagoons A and B are designed to supply irrigation water to a nearby reclamation area, although the RWD reports that the irrigation area hasn’t been used
since at least 2010. The RWD states that Lagoon A is occasionally used for discharge.
The RWD does not propose to retain use of the former reclamation area.
The RWD indicates that that the population served by the WWTF has remained fairly
stable and that the wastewater flow for the period 2016 through 2018 was also stable,
averaging 53,300 gallons per day. During 2020, the monthly flow averaged 0.058 million
gallons per day ; however , the dataset was missing the month of Apr il due to the flow
meter being out of service. The minimum and maximum average monthly flows during
2020 were 0.045 and 0.073 million gallons per day in May and August, respectively.
The RWD requests an effluent flow limit of 70,000 gpd ; however , it also s tates that the
Facility was designed for a flow rate of 120,000 gpd, which is the flow limit in the current
WDRs. In a 7 June 2021 email, Kenneth Hutchings of Giersch and Associates states
that the lack of flow data for April 2020 was due to a lift station upgrade which required a bypass of the lift station for a short period of time. Mr. Hutchings further explains that a new flow meter was installed at the conclusion of the upgrade project and that influent
flow to the WWTF averaged 62,000 gpd for the period June 2020 through December 2020. During the month of August 2020, the monthly average daily flow rate wat 72,600
gpd. Staff recommends issuing the Notice of Applic ability with a monthly average daily
flow limit of 100,000 gallons per day .
In accordance with the requirements in the General Order, discharges with flow rates greater than 20,000 gallons per day are required to conduct a nitrogen evaluation.
Based on the following information (from the RWD and 28 April 2016 Facilities
Inspection Report) and the guidelines in Attachment 1 of the General Order, no nitrogen limit is recommended for the Facility discharge at this time :
Tranquillity Public Utility District - 3 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
 • Flow rate exceeds 20,000 gpd.
• The discharge of advanced primary -treated wastewater to the unlined oxidation
lagoons do not meet the definition of shallow groundwater or excessive
percolation rate from Table 5 of the General Order. The soil p ercolation rate is
approximately 0.06 feet per day (0.72 inches per day) , and the a pproximate
groundwater depth is 75 feet below ground surface based on Department of
Water Resources (DWR) maps of the area.
• The effluent sample result reported in the 28 April 2016 Facilities Inspection
Report shows a total nitrogen concentration of 22 mg/L. Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
was 22 mg/L and nitrate (as N) was 0.064 mg/L (estimated) .
• Due to the slow percolation rate and depth to groundwater , it is possible that
nitrification and denitrification in the vadose zone will adequately attenuate
nitrogen in the percolate from the oxidation lagoons .
• The Tranquillity WWTF lies within a non -prioritized basins/sub- basin and will
receive a Notice to Comply with the Nitrate Control Program in the future as
directed by the Ce ntral Valley Water Board Executive Officer. See Salt and
Nitrate Control Programs sec tion below for more information.
Waste Discharge Requirements Order 80-081 includes the following limits:
• 30-day average dry weather f low limit of 0.12 million gallons p er day (mgd)
• Biochemical oxygen demand ( BOD ) limits – 40 mg/L (30-day average) and
80 mg/L (daily maximum )
• Settleable matter limits – 0.2 ml/L (30-day average) and 1 ml/L (daily maximum )
• Pond dissolved oxygen limit of not less than 1.0 mg/L for 16 hours in any 24- hour
period.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
Table 1 below provides characterization of the effluent BOD, dissolved oxygen, and EC
for the period 2016 through 20 20. A ccording to the Facility operator , effluent samples
were taken from the far end of oxidation lagoon 2 .
Table 1 – Effluent Data (2016- 2018)
Year BOD
(mg/L) EC
(µmhos/cm ) TSS
(mg/L)
2016 50 2,650 153
2017 60 2,350 137
2018 70 2,190 165
Tranquillity Public Utility District - 4 - 17 June 2021
Tranquillity WWTF
 Year BOD
(mg/L) EC
(µmhos/cm ) TSS
(mg/L)
2019 88 2,143 98
2020 75 2,138 96
Minimum 20 1,820 39
Maximum 170 3,620 490
BASIN PLAN REQUIREMENTS
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Third Edition, revised M ay
2018 (Basin Plan) specifies

===PLANNED CHANGES===

