2025 . The proposed project includes retrofitting of the existing Macdoel Middle School
campus into wo rker housing for the Discharger’s seasonal agricultural activities . The
campus property consists of 10 acres and is due south of the town of Macdoel along
Old State Highway.
The Discharger maintains coverage for another, nearby facility, which is regulated under
97-010-DWQ and R1 -2015 -0027. This nearby facility is referred to as “Plant Sciences,
Inc. Juniper Village” in Regional Board records. To differentiate these two facilities in
Macdoel owned and operated by the same discharger, the Facility is to be covered
under this Notice of Applicability and its corresponding file shall be referred to as “Plant
Sciences, Inc. Macdoel Middle School ” in Regional Board records.

Mr. Matthew Adamec - 2 - August 27, 2025
Based on the information presented in the ROWD and the supplemental information
received, the proposed domestic wastewater system and discharge are consistent with
the requirements of the General Order.
The General Order contains requirements that apply to all types of wastewater systems
and requirements that apply only to specific types of treatment and/or disposal systems.
Attachment 1 to this letter summarizes the operational requirements specific to Plant
Sciences’ Macdoel Middle School domestic wastewater system. The General Order
contains additional requirements not summarized in Attachment 1. Additionally, the
General Order requires compliance with Regional Water Board Basin Plan water quality
objec tives. The MRP, Attachment 2, contains the necessary site -specific monitoring and
reporting requirements. The Discharger is responsible for all applicable requirements in
the General Order and the MRP.
The General Order is available on the State Water Resources Control Board website
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/board_decisions/adopted_orders/water_quality/2014/
wqo2014_0153_dwq.pdf ).
The Regional Water Board Basin Plan, Chapter 3, Water Quality Objectives, is available
on the Regional Water Board website
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/northcoast/water_issues/programs/basin_plan/180710
/BPChapter3WaterQualityObjectives.pdf ).
Conditional County Requirements
Siskiyou County staff requested certain conditions be met in order for the discharge to
comply with local density requirements. As the proposed discharge is not eligible under
coverage under Tier 1 of the OWTS Policy and Siskiyou County does not have an
approved LAMP, Regional Water Board staff are including certain local requirements to
ensure that the discharge may proceed. These conditions were noted in a Plant
Sciences letter dated 6/16/2025 sen t to Siskiyou County. Namely:
1.The county’s new Sewage Disposal Ordinance1assumes an owner of a property
to be operating their wastewater system at its projected daily capacity 365 days
of the year.
2.Based on that assumption, if the owner of a 10 -acre, high density property like
the one in question were to operate at the County’s stated maximum allowed flow
1Sec. 5 -2.18, the “density standard” maximum allowance for wastewater flow with a
“Standard” wastewater treatment system, like the one that has been proposed, is 2,400
gallons per day with the lot size. This reference also allows for an increase of this flow
upwards of 100 percent if wastewater flows are treated by an approved “alternative on -
site” wastewater treatment system, which could bring the total allowance up to 4,800
gallons per day.
Mr. Matthew Adamec - 3 - August 27, 2025
of 2,400 gallons per day, this would create an annual total production of 876,000
gallons.
3.Plant Sciences planned total annual production of wastewater at the middle
school site is based on a total of 45 days of use. Thus, at the current planned
production of 5,040 gallons per day, the total annual production would be
226,800 gallons, 1/4 of the maximum annual production that the county allows for
under its sewage disposal ordinance.
4.If, in the future, Plant Sciences needs to increase the operational use of this
facility by more than 400%, the company is required to advise the County and
Regional Board and plan for the installation of an alternative on -site wastewater
treatment system.2
Facility Discharge Description
The Discharger will operate the Facility along Old State Highway approximately a half
mile south of the town of Macdoel . The Facility is not located in an area served by a
regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic wastewater will be collected,
treated, and disposed of on-site.
The proposed Facility will serve a 10-acre middle school campus that will be retrofitted
into housing to accommodate seasonal agricultural workers. The expected occupancy is
126 persons who will reside at the site each year during an approximately 6 -week work
period. Contributing flows include restrooms, showers, a kitchen, and laundry facilities.
The site may be used for training purposes outside of the 6 -week work period.
Estimated annual discharge would be expected around 227,000 gallons. If the
discharg er estimates actual flows above 876,000 gallons over a yearlong period, the
discharger shall submit updated plans for a system with advanced treatment per the
County’s conditional requirements to both the County and the Regional Water Board .
California Environmental Quality Act
As an existing facility, the facility upgrade project described in this NOA is categorically
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California
Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301, (ongoing or existing projects), se ction
15302 (replacement or reconstruction of existing utility systems), and section 15303
(new construction or conversion of small structures).
Site Specific Requirements and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

