FACILITY AN D DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWT P is located at 3294 Highway 4 in Arnold, in Section 6 & 7 , Township 4 North ,
Range 15 East , MDB&M . The site location is shown on Attachment A, which is attached
hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. CCWD owns and operates the existing
WWTP. The facility receives domestic wastewater generated from the Arnold and Mill
Woods subdivision s. It also receives a small amount of domestic wastewater from Avery
Middle School and Safari Mobil Home Park in Avery . The total equivalent dwelling units
(EDU) are approximately 835 including 240 commercial EDUs. Mill Woods subdivision
has approximately 185 EDUs .
 The existing WWTP consists of a bar screen, an oxidation ditch, a secondary clarif ier, a
chlorine inject ion system , sand filt ers, effluent storage tanks, land application areas
(LAAs) , two aerobic sludge digesters, a belt filter press, and two concrete sludge drying
beds . A site plan is presented on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and is made
part of this NOA. After treatment in the oxidation ditch and the clarifier, the wastewater is
disinfected by the chlorine injection system and then is pumped through the pressure
filters to a 262,500 -gallon metal storage tank . Effluent from the storage tank is applied to
the LAAs . The treatment process is shown schematically on Attachment C , which is
attached hereto and is made part of this NOA .
 The WWTP has a maximum design capacity of 0.17 million gallons per day (MGD). In the
last five years, the combined influent flows from Arnold and Millwoods collection system averaged 82,296 gpd with a range from 58,300 to 151,595 gpd. High flows occurred during the wet season indicating inflow and infiltration (I&I) in the collecti on system.
CCWD is addressing I&I with gradual system improvements and maintenance. Based on the 2014 effluent monitoring data, the average concentrations of specific conductivity, total nitrogen and BOD were 708
 µmhos/cm , 33 mg/L, and 10 mg/L, respectiv ely.
 The LAAs includes of 11 percolation beds (3.3 acres) for subsurface disposal and
22 acres of spray fields . Arnold Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge Capacity
Evaluation dated 28 May 2015 stated that the percolation beds are referred to as leach
fields in CCWD records. CCWD ceases spray field discharge during rain or when ground
is saturated and uses the percolations beds for disposal. CCWD owns an adjacent parcel
of 10.6 acres suitable for complete replacement of all the percolation beds or for additional sprayfields, if needed.
 The influent grit and screenings are hauled offsite to a permitted landfill facility. Sludge is
dewatered by the belt filter press and then is further dried on the sludge drying beds in
Teresa Tanaka - 3 - 20 January 2016
Calaveras County Water District
Arnold Wastewater Treatment Plant

order to meet the pathogen and vector attraction reduction requirements for Class B
biosolids . All biosolids are transported to Synagro for disposal .
 There are three groundw ater monitoring wells on site, including one background well
MW-1 and two downgradient wells MW -2 and MW -4. The 2014 Groundwater Annual
Report indicates that nitrate nitrogen concentrations in downgradient wells are greater than that in the upgradient wel l, but were less than the P rimary Maximum Contaminate
Levels (MCL) of 10 mg/L for nitrate nitrogen. Average TDS concentrations in all wells are
less than 100 mg/L. 3. SITE -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND