wastewater treatment and disposal ponds (lined or unlined shall be monitored as
specified in Table 3 below.
Table 3 – Wastewater Pond Monitoring Requirements
Parameter Units Sample Type Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
DO
(see 1. below ) mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Monthly Quarterly
Odors --- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Berm
Condition --- Observation Monthly Quarterly
1. DO (or Dissolved Oxygen) shall be measured between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m .
Fresno County Service Area 32 - 4 - 13 February 2020
Cantua Creek WWTF
2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5335
SLUDGE/BIOSOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids, etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the
name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of was te
transported, the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name
and address, and copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste.
These records shall be submitted as part of the annual monitoring report.
REPORTI NG
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so
that the date, sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual
inspection results are readily discernable. The data shall be summarized to clearly
illustrate compliance with the General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any
monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the MRP
shall be reported in the next regularly scheduled monitoring report and sh all be included
in calculations as appropriate.
The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory
documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence shall
be converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted
electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvalleyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov . Documents that are 50MB or larger should be
transferred to a disk and mailed to the appropriate Regional Water Board office, in this
case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706.
To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following information
block should be included in any emai l used to transmit documents to this office:
Program: Non-15,
Place ID: 201075 ,
Facility Name: Fresno County Service Area 32, Cantua Creek
Order: 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5335
A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of
the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly
Report is due by May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of
the Discharg er’s authorized representative. At the minimum, the quarterly reports
shall include:
1. Results of all required monitoring conducted during the quarter .
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, applicable