Discharge Descripti on. The Facility is located in Campo, an
unincorpora ted community located in southeastern San Diego County, within the
Campo Hydrologic Area (911.8) of the Tijuana Hydrologic Unit. The General
Order and this NOA regulate the discharge of waste from small wastewater
treatment systems and prescribe monitoring requirements for the treatment and
discharge of domestic wastewater. The Facility OWTS consists of a grease
interceptor, Imhoff tank, dosing tank, trickling filter, two secondary clarifiers,
solids contact tank, anoxic selector tank, effluent tank, eight percolations beds,
and two sludge drying beds. The maximum ten-year average flowrate for the
Facility is approximately 76,000 gallons per day (gpd). The effluent is circulated
to percolations beds located 0.5 mile from the Facility. The groundwater quality
monitoring network consists of five groundwater monitoring wells.
2. California Environmental Quality Act. The proposed project is the enrollment
of the Facility in the General Order. As such, the project is categorically exempt
from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to title
14, California Code of Regulations, section 15301, and in compliance with title
14, California Code of Regulations, section 15300.2.
3. Facility Specific Requirements. The operator of the Facility must be familiar
with the requirements contained in the General Order, this NOA, and the
Monitoring and Reporting Program included in section 4 below.
The General Order contains prohibitions and specifications , applicable to all
wastewater systems, and specifications applicable only to specific treatment and
disposal systems. This NOA permits an average daily flow rate of 100,000 gpd,
calculated monthly. The Discharge r must comply with the following specific
requirements:
a. Required Technical Reports/Plans. The Discharger must submit the plans
described below:
1. Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan. Consistent with the
requirements of General Order Provision E.1.a., the Spill Prevention and
Emergency Response Plan must be received by the San Diego Water
Board by 5:00 p.m. on March 10, 2020.
11. Sampling and Analysis Plan. Consistent with the requirements of
General Order Provision E.1.b, the Sampling and Analysis Plan must be
received by the San Diego Water Board by 5:00 p.m. on March 10,
2020.
Dr. Kim -3 - November 15, 2019
iii. Sludge Management Plan. Consistent with the requirements of General
Order Provision E.1.c, the Sludge Management Plan must be received
by the San Diego Water Board by 5:00 p.m. on March 10, 2020.
Upon approval of the plans by the San Diego Water Board, the Discharger
must implement the plans.
b. Applicable Requirements of the General Order. The Discharger must comply
with section 8.3 and 8.4 (Aerobic Treatment Units and Activated Sludge
Systems) of the General Order. General Order 8.3 and 8.4 requirements
include but are not limited to the following: submission of a sludge
management plan, communication to customers that discourages the use of
holding tank chemicals and ensuring all upgrades and repairs to the OWTS
are performed by licensed professionals.
The Discharger must also comply with section 8.8 (Sludge/Solids/Biosolids
Disposal) which includes requirements for the proper management and
disposal of sludge wastes.
The Discharger must also comply with section 8.12 (Wastewater Pond
Monitoring) of the General Order when the percolatio n pond is in use. The
requirements for monitoring the pond are listed in section 5.f below.
c. Setback Requirements. New discharges must maintain the applicable
setbacks specified in Table 3 of the General Order.
4.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

