wastewater treatment and disposal systems at
the Millerton Lake State Recreation Area that is subject to the N otice of A pplicabili ty (NOA) of
Water Quality Order 201 4-0153- DWQ -R5298. The reports are necessary to ensure that the
Discharger complies with the NOA and General Order . Pursuant to Water Code section 13267,
the Discharger shall implement this MRP and shall submit the monitoring reports described
herein.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5298 2
MILLERTON LAKE STATE RECREATIONAREA WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY


All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled . The name of the sampler, sample type (grab or composite), time, date,
location, bottle type, and any preservative used for each sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form . The chain of custody form must also contain all custody
information including date, time, and to whom samples were relinquished. If composite samples
are collected, the basis for sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by Central Valley
Water Board staff.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that they are used by a State Water Resources Control
Board, Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program (ELAP) certified laboratory, or :

1. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are maintained and available for at least three years .

If monitoring consistently shows no significant variation in magnitude of a constituent
concentration or parameter after at least 12 months of monitoring, the Discharger may request
this MRP be revised to reduce monitoring frequency. The proposal must include adequate
technical justificatio n for reduction in monitoring frequency.

SEPTIC TANK MONITORING

Septic tanks shall be inspected and/or pumped at least as frequently as described below.
Inspections of sludge and scum depth are not required if the tanks are pumped at least
annually.

Parameter Units Measurement
Type Inspection/Reporting
Frequency
Sludge depth and scum thickness in each
compartment of each tank Feet Staff Gauge Annually
Distance between bottom of scum layer
and bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Distance between top of sludge layer and
bottom of outlet device Inches Staff Gauge Annually
Effluent filter condition
(if equipped, clean as needed) NA1 NA1 Annually
1. NA = not applicable
Septic tanks shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exists:
1. The combined thickness of sludge and scum exceeds one- third of the tank depth of the
first compartment.
2. The scum layer is within 3 inches o f the outlet device.
3. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5298 3
MILLERTON LAKE STATE RECREATIONAREA WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY


If a septic tank is pumped during the year, the pumping report shall be submitted with the
annual report. All pumping reports shall be submitted with the next regularly scheduled
monitoring report. At a minimum, the record shall include the date, nature of service, service
company name, and service company license number.
POND SYSTEM MONITORING
Influent Monitoring
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of the
wastewater and flow rate prior to entering the wastewater evaporation/percolation pond. At a
minimum, influent monitoring shall consist of the following:

Constituent Units1 Sample Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow Rate2 gpd Meter Continuous Quarterly
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm Grab Quarterly Quarterly
 1. gpd = gallons per day, mg/L = milligrams per liter , umhos/cm = micromhos per centimeter .
2. At a minimum, the total flow shall be measured monthly to calculate the average daily flow for the month.
Pond Monitoring
The wastewater evaporation/percolation pond shall be monitored as specified below.


Constituent Units Sample Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Continuous Quarterly
Odors --- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Berm Condition --- Observation Monthly Quarterly
SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids ( e.g., screenings, grit, sludge,
biosolids, etc .) generated at the wastewater system . Records shall include the name/contact
information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported, the date
removed from the wastewater system , the disposal facility name and address, and copies of
analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste. These records shall be submitted as
part of the a nnual monitoring report .

REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type ( e.g., effluent, solids , etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection result s
are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance with the
General Order and NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently
than required at the locations specified in the M RP shall be reported in the next regularly
scheduled monitoring report and shall be included in calculations as appropriate.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2014- 0153- DWQ -R5298 4
MILLERTON LAKE STATE RECREATIONAREA WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY



The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory
documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be
converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically.
Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to:
centralvall eyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov.

Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and mailed to the
appropriate Regional Water Board office, in this case 1685 E Street, Fresno, CA 93706. To
ensure that your submittals are routed to the appr opriate staff, the following information block
should be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office: Program: Non -15,
WDID: 5C100800001 , Facility Name: Millerton Lake State Recreation Area WWTF ,
Order -2014 -0153- DWQ -R5298.

A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board on the first
day of the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. the January – March Quarterly Report is
due by May 1st). The reports shall bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s
authorized representative. At a minimum, the quarterly reports shall include:
1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, disclosure of any
violations of the NOA and/or the General Order, and an explanation of any violation of
those requirements . (Data shall be presented in tabular format).
3. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) and chain of custody forms.
B. Annual Report
Annual Report s shall be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board by March 1st following
the monitoring year . The Annual Report shall include the following:

1. Tabular and graphical summaries of all monitoring data collected during the year .
2. An evaluation of the performance of the wastewater treatment system , including
discussion of capacity issues, nuisance conditions, system problems, and a forecast of
the flows anticipated in the next year . A flow rate evaluation, as described in the
Gener al Order (Provision E.2.c) , shall also be submitted.
3. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned or
proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into compliance with the NOA and/or
General Order .
4. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring
system or reporting program .
5. The name and contact information for the wastewater operator responsible for operation,
maintenance, and system monitoring.
A letter transmitting the monitoring reports shall accompany each report . The letter shall report
violations found during the reporting period, and actions taken or planned to correct the
violations and prevent future violations. The transmittal letter shall contain the following penalty
of perjury statement and shall be signed by the Discharger or the Discharger's authorized agent:



Millerton Lake State Recreation Area - 2 - 26 March 2019
Wastewater Treatment Facility


In addition, the WWTF receives chemical toilet waste from seven stationed chemical toilets at
the MLSRA. The chemical toilets utilize a deodorant that is described by the Discharger as
“97.1 percent water, 1.8 percent biodegradable detergent, 1 percent bi odegradable blue dye,
and 0.1 percent biodegradable perfumes ”. The perfume s are natural oils extracted from plants.
Information provided in the self -monitoring reports indicates that these toilets add an additional
90 gallons per day (gpd) as an annual average to the discharge to the WWTF. The MLSRA
WWTF does not accept waste from recreational vehicles.

The wastewater collection system consists of approximately 4,200 linear feet of 6 -inch pipe,
six septic tanks , and four pump stations. Wastewater gener ated at the MLSRA is piped via
gravity and force mains to an approximately half -acre unlined evaporation/percolation pond
located south of the WWTF.

The WWTF is currently regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order 86 -224,
which specifies a 30- day average daily dry -weather flow limitation of 2,830 gpd. The average
daily flow in 2018 was 515 gpd with the higher use months being from June through August of
each year. The high use month for 2018 was June with a monthly average flow of 1,379 gpd.
The monthly averages from 2018 are shown in the table below.

Millerton Lake State Recreation Area - 2018 Effluent Flow Data
Month Total Flow Average Flow Pond Condition
Observation Gallons per month Gallons per day
January 7,828 252.5 Empty
February 4,840 172.9 Empty
March 16,825 542.7 Empty
April 19,047 634.9 Empty
May 31,690 1,022.3 Empty
June 41,358 1,378.6 Empty
July 31.034 1,001.1 Empty
August 13,658 440.6 Empty
September 7,747 258.2 Empty
October 5,181 167.1 Empty
November 5,198 173.3 Empty
December 3,404 109.81 Empty
 Total Discharge
187,810 Gallons Annual Average
515 Gallons

Monitoring and Reporting Program Order 86- 224 requires daily effluent flow monitoring and
weekly monitoring of the effluent for dissolved oxygen (DO) . There are no results for DO
monitoring in the file record. MLSRA staff indicated there is never any standing effluent in the
effluent disposal pond to sample. A review of the monthly monitoring reports indicates the
effluent retention pond was listed as being dry in all of the 2018 monthly monitoring reports.
Also, a review of aerial photographs dating back to August 1989 does not show what appears to
be open standing water or wastewater in the pond. An inspection in February 2019 found the
pond to be mostly dry, with a wet vegetated area (cat tails and other grasses) in the center of
the pond basin. It had rained considerably prior to the inspection, and the rains likely
contributed to the conditions observed during the inspection. While the area was wet and soft,
there was not an area of open standing water of sufficient size to collect a sample and access to
the area would be difficult .
Millerton Lake State Recreation Area - 3 - 26 March 2019
Wastewater Treatment Facility


POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Discharger currently monitors the septic tanks biannually (measures the scum layer and the
sludge layer thickness , and pumps the contents depending upon the results of the inspection )
and reported in 2017 that 3,080 gallons of sludge were removed by a contract service. The
Notice of Applicability (NOA) and the associated Monitoring and Reporting Program prepared as
part of the General Order will require annual septic tank monitoring and the NOA requires the
preparation and submittal of a Sludge Management Plan within 90 days of the issuance of t he
NOA.

From the septic tanks, t he wastewater is either pumped or gravity flows into the
evaporation/percolation pond. Surficial soils in the area of the effluent evaporation/percolation
pond are reported to consist of Greenfield sandy loam and Tujunga loamy sand, over weathered
bedrock (decomposed granite) . Little is known about the depth to groundwater, but test pits
excavated to ten feet in 1985 did not encounter groundwater or bedrock.

The General Order includes setback requirements for the various components of the WWTF
(e.g., collection system and pond) . The areas served by the MLSRA WWTF all meet the
applicable setback requirements for septic tanks and impoundments (ponds) listed in Table 3 of
the General Order . The Ramp 3 restroom is the closest to the lake being about 265 feet from
the high-water line. The effluent disposal pond is across Millerton Road to the south of the
MLSRA and is at a minimum 1,500 feet from the high -water line of Millerton Lake.

MONIT ORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the General
Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring,
• Pond System Monitoring, and
• Solids Disposal Monitoring.

CV-SALTS
The Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments incorporating new programs
for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018
Board Meeting. These programs, once effective, could change how the Central Valley permits
discharges of salt and nitrate.