DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Facility is located at 33129 Cole Grade Road, Pauma Valley, California , within
the Pauma Hydrologic Sub -Area of the Monserate Hydrologic Area of the San Luis
Rey Hydrologic Unit . The Facility ’s onsite wastewater treatment system consists of
an Aero -Mod package treatment plant operat ing as two parallel domestic
wastewater treatment trains, each with multiple stage aeration basins, aerobic
digesters, and clarifiers . The effluent from both treatment trains discharge s to four
onsite percolation ponds. The maximum five -year average effluent flowrate for the
Facility is approximately 60,000 gallons per day (gpd).

2. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
The General Order regulates new and existing small domestic wastewater treatment
systems. In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and
consistent with Finding No. 32.a of the General Order, the action to enroll the Facility
is categorically exempt from CEQA pursuant to California Code of Regulations
(CCR) title 14, section 15301 (ongoing or existing projects), section 15302
(replacement or reconstruction of existing utility systems), and section 15303 (new
construction or conversion of small structures) .
3. FACILITY REQUIREMENTS

The operator of the Facility must be familiar with the requirement s contained in the
General Order, this NOA, and the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) in
section 5 below.
The Discharger must comply with the prohibitions and specifications contained within
the General Order , which are applicable to all wastewater systems. The Discharger
also must comply with the following General Order specification applicable to the
Facility’s specific treatme nt and/or disposal system .
a. Required Technical Reports/Plans . The Discharger must submit the following
plans:

i. A Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan consistent with the
requirements of General Order Provision E.1.a. The San Diego Water Board
Mr. Graziano - 3 - May 12, 202 1
must r eceive the Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan by 5:00
p.m. on September 7 , 2021 .

ii. A Sampling and Analysis Plan consistent with the requirements of General
Order Provision E.1.b. The San Diego Water Board must receive the
Sampling and Analysis Plan by 5:00 p.m. on September 7 , 2021 .

iii. A Sludge Management Plan consistent with the requireme nts of General
Order Provision E.1.c. The San Diego Water Board must receive the Sludge
Management Plan by 5:00 p.m. on September 7 , 2021 .

Upon approval of these plans by the San Diego Water Board, the Discharger
must implement the plans.

b. Prohibitions . The Discharger must comply with all prohibitions listed in section A
of the General Order and all applicable requirements in the Water Quality Control
Plan for the San Diego Basin (Basin Plan) .1

c. Setback Requirements . The Discharger must en sure new discharges maintain
the applicable setbacks specified in Table 3 of the General Order.

d. Additional Applicable Requirements of the General Order . The Discharger must
comply with all the requirements listed in sections B.1 (All Wastewater Systems),
B.3 (Aerobic Treatment Units), B.4 ( Activated Sludge System s), B.5 (Pond
Systems) , and B.8 (Sludge /Solids/Biosolids Disposal ) of the General Order .

4. EFFLU ENT LIMITATIONS
The Discharger must not allow effluent concentrations to exceed the limits listed in
Table 1 below .

Table 1.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

