EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTF is located at 16565 Prospect Place, Pioneer, in Amador County as shown on
attachment A, which is incorporated herei n. The WWTF is operated by Evans Management
Services.
The WWTF provides wastewater treatment and disposal service for Pioneer Creek Mobile
Home Community. The maximum capacity of the community is 63 mobile home units.
Currently there are approximately 56 mobile home units connected to the sewer collection
system. There is no flow meter onsite. The RW D estimates that the domestic wastewater
generated from the community is approximat ely 5,000 gallons per day (gpd) based on
population. The existing WDRs Order 88-109 c ontains a flow limit of 7,000 gpd as a dry
weather monthly average discharge rate.
The WWTF consists of two 5,000-gallon steel septic tanks and three evaporation/percolation
ponds. Septic tank effluent is directed into one or more of the evaporation/percolation ponds
for disposal. The operator directs effluent to one pond or another depending upon pond level,
maintenance needs, or other factors that affect disposal efficiency. Approximate surface
areas of three ponds at two feet of freeboard are 4,500 square feet for Pond 1, 5,800 square
feet for Pond 2, and 5,700 square feet for Pond 3. The depths of the ponds are four feet for
Pond 1 and 2, and five feet for Pond 3 based on two- feet of free board. The site plan is shown
on Attachments B, which is incorporated herein.
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger shall comply with all applicable sections in the General Order, including:
1. Requirements A. Prohibitions
2. Requirements B.1.a.
The Discharger shall comply with the following flow limit: The treated wastewaterentering the storage pond shall not e xceed 7,000 gallon as a monthly average.
3. Requirements B.1.b. through B.1.I
For Section B.1.I, the Discharger shall comp ly with the following setback requirements
listed in in Table 3 of the General Order:
Equipment or Activity Domestic Well Flowing Stream Ephemeral Stream Drainage Property Line Lake or Reservoir
Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System
150 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft. 5 ft. 200 ft.
Impoundment 150 ft. 150 ft. 150 ft. 50 ft. 200 ft.
Adam Evans
Evans management services - 3 -  June 2021
4. Requirements B.2 Septic Systems
5. Requirements B.5 Pond Systems6. Requirements B.8 Sludge/Solids/Biosolids Disposal7. Requirements C. Groundwater and Surface Water Limitations8. Provision E.2 and E.3
On 31 May 2018, the Central Valley Water Boar d adopted Basin Plan amen dments incorporating
new strategies for addressing ongoing salt and nitr ate accumulation in the Central Valley as part
of the Central Valley Salinity Alternatives fo r Long-Term Sustainability (CV-SALTS) initiative.
Further details of these strategies are di scussed in the enclosed memorandum. As these
strategies are implemented, the Central Valley Wa ter Board may find it necessary to modify the
requirements of this NOA to ensure the goals of the Salt and Nitrate Control Program are met.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
WDRs Order 88-109 will be rescinded at an upcomi ng Central Valley Regional Water Quality
Control Board (Central Valley Water Board) m eeting. Effective upon rescission of WDRs Order
88-109, the Discharger shall comply with MRP WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359, which isincorporated herein.
ENFORCEMENT
Please review this NOA carefully to ensure that it completely and accurately reflects the
discharge. Discharge of wastes other than those de scribed in this NOA is prohibited. Prior to
allowing changes to the wastewater strength, generation rate, or to the method of waste
disposal, you must contact the Central Valley Water Board to determine if submittal of a
Report Waste Discharge is required.
The Discharger generates the waste subject to the terms and conditions of Water Quality
Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359 and maintains exclusive control over the discharge.
As such, the Discharger is primarily responsible for compliance with this NOA, MRP, and General Order, with all attachments. Failure to comply with the requirements in the General
Order or this NOA could result in an enforcem ent action as authorized by provisions of the
California Water Code.
DOCUMENT SUBMITTAL
All monitoring reports and other correspondence should be converted to searchable Portable
Document Format (PDF) and submitted electroni cally. Documents that are less than 50 MB
should be emailed to:
centralvalleysacramento@waterboards.ca.gov.To ensure that your submittal is routed to the appropriate staff person, the following
information should be included in the body of the email or any documentation submitted to the
mailing address for this office:
Adam Evans
Evans management services - 4 -  June 2021
Facility Name: Pioneer Creek Mobile Home Wastewater Treatment Facility
Program: Non-15 Compliance Order: WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359 CIWQS Place ID: CW- 248476
Documents that are 50 MB or larger should be transferred to a CD, DVD, or flash drive and
mailed to:
Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board
ECM Mailroom 11020 Sun Center Drive, Suite 200 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
Now that the NOA has been issued, the Central Valley Water Board’s Compliance and
Enforcement section will take over management of your case. Kenny Croyle is your new point
of contact for any questions about the General Order. If you find it necessary to make a
change to your permitted operations, Kenny wil l direct you to the appropriate Permitting
section staff. You may contact Kenny at (916) 464-4676 or at kcroyle@waterboards.ca.gov .
for Patrick Pulupa
Executive Officer
Enclosures:Water Quality Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
Monitoring and Reporting Program WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359 Attachment A, Location Map Attachment B, Site Plan Staff Review Memorandum for Pioneer Creek Mobile Home Community WWTF
cc w/out enc: Michelle Opalenik , Amador County Environmental Health Department
Debbie Webster, CVCWA (via email)
David Lancaster, State Water Resources Control Board, Sacramento (via email)
Laurel Warddrip, State Water Resources Co ntrol Board, Sacramento (via email)
Howard Hold, Central Valley Water Board, Rancho Cordova (via email)
for r r rr r rrr r rrrrrrr r r rrrrrrPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPPaPaPaPaPaPPaPPPPPPPPPaPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPtrick PuPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPlupa
ExEEeceutive Officer
John J.
BaumDigitally signed by John J. Baum Date: 2021.06.29 09:57:08 -07'00'
WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359 ATTACHMENT A

WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359 ATTACHMENT B

TO: Robert Busby
Supervising Engineering Geologist
FROM: Scott Armstrong
Senior Engineering Geologist
Lixin Fu
Water Resource Control Engineer
DATE: 7 June 2021
APPLICABILITY OF COVERAGE UNDER STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL
BOARD ORDER WQ 2014-0153-DWQ; GENERA L WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS; PIONEER CREEK MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY WASTEWAT ER TREATMENT FACILITY; AMADOR
COUNTY
On 1 September 2017, the Pioneer Creek Mob ile Home Community (hereafter Discharger)
submitted a Report of Waste Discharge for r equesting to obtain coverage under the State
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) General Waste Discharge Requirements
for Small Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ (General
Order). Evans Management Services operates the WWTF. This memorandum provides a
summary of the applicability of this disc harge for coverage under the General Order.
REGULATORY BACKGROUND
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) 88-109, adopted by the Central Valley Regional
Water Quality Control Board (Central Vall ey Water Board) on 24 June 1988, prescribes
requirements for Pioneer Creek Mobile Home Community Wastewater Treatment Facility
(WWTF), and allows a 30-day average dry weat her discharge flow of 7,000 gallons per day
(gpd). WDRs Order 88-109 will be rescinde d at an upcoming Central Valley Water Board
meeting. Effective upon rescission of Order 88- 109, the discharge described in this NOA shall
be regulated pursuant to the General Order.
EXISTING FACILITY A ND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTF is located at 16565 Prospect Place, Pioneer, in Amador County. The community is
situated within Section 21, Township 7N, Ra nge 13E, MDB&M with assessor’s parcel numbers
023-070-024 and 023-070-075. Currently there ar e 56 units with a population of 78. There are
no commercial uses in the community and the wa stewater system does not accept wastewater
from outside of the community.
The community is served by municipal water supplied by the Amador Water Agency (AWA).
The source water from Tiger Creek Reservoir is treated by Buckhorn Water Treatment Plant.
Based on a sampling event conducted on 28 May 2020 by the AWA, the treated water supply has a TDS concentration of 27 mg/L.
The WWTF consists of a conventional collection system, two 5,000-gallon steel septic tanks,
and three unlined evaporation/percolation ponds . During routine operation, collected
wastewater is directed into one of the two sept ic tanks for primary settling, clarification and
treatment. Septic tank effluent is then directed into one or more of the evaporation/percolation
ponds for disposal.
The contents of each of the septic tanks are pumped out every year when the tank is
seasonally rotated out of service. Evacuati ons are conducted by a licensed septic tank
inspection contractor. Evacuated materials (s olids and liquids) are delivered to a licensed
treatment and disposal facility.
There are no monitoring wells onsite and depth to groundwater beneath the by the community
has not been determined directly. However, the RWD states that monitoring well data have
been obtained from Mace Meadows Community Leachfield System, which is located
approximately 3,500 feet north of the Pioneer Cr eek Mobile Home Community at a similar
elevation. The first semi-annual 2017 monito ring report for the Mace Meadows Community
Leachfield System indicates that the ground water depth was approximately 88 feet below
ground surface. The RWD states that the de pth to ground water beneath the Pioneer Creek
Mobile Home Community may be roughly 80-90 feet below ground surface.
Wastewater generation rates are not currently measured at the community. Because MRP 88-
109 does not contain monitoring requirements for effluent quality, there are no effluent data available. MRP WQ 2014-0153-DWQ-R5359 will include monitoring requirements for effluent
quality and flow rate.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following se ctions from Attachm ent C of the General
Order are appropriate for this discharge:
Septic Tank Monitoring
Effluent Monitoring
Pond System Monitoring
Solids Disposal Monitoring
SALT AND NITRATE CONTROL PROGRAMS
The Central Valley Water Board adopted Basi n Plan amendments incorporating new programs
for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulati on in the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018
Board Meeting. The Basin Plan amendments were conditionally approved by the State Water
Board on 16 October 2019 (Resolution 2019-0057) and by the Office of Administrative Law on
15 January 2020 (OAL Matter No. 2019-1203-03).
For nitrate, dischargers that are unable to co mply with stringent nitrate requirements will be
required to take on alternate compliance app roaches that involve providing replacement
drinking water to persons whose drinking wate r is affected by nitrates. Dischargers may
comply with the new nitrate program either indi vidually or collectively with other dischargers.
For the Nitrate Control Program, the facility fa lls within Non-Prioritized Groundwater Basins.
Notices to Comply for Non-Prioritized Basins will be issued within two to four years after the
effective date of the Nitrate Control Program.
For salinity, dischargers that are unable to co mply with stringent salinity requirements will
instead need to meet performance-based requirement s and participate in a basin-wide effort to
develop a long-term salinity strategy for the C entral Valley. Dischargers received a Notice to
Comply with instructions and obligations for the Salt Control Program within one year of
17January 2020, the effective date of the amendments. Upon receipt of the Notice to Comply,
the discharger had no more than six months to in form the Central Valley Water Board of their
choice between Option 1 (Conservative Option for Salt Permitting) or Option 2 (Alternative
Option for Salt Permitting).
As these strategies are implemented, the Centra l Valley Water Board may find it necessary to
modify the requirements of this Order to ens ure the goals of the Salt and Nitrate Control
Programs are met. This order may be amended or modified to incorporate newly applicable
requirements. More information regarding this regulatory planning process can be found on the
Central Valley Water Board CV-SALTS website (https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralvalley/water_issues/salinity).

===PLANNED CHANGES===

