FACILITY DESCRIPTION
1. The City of San Juan Bautista (hereinafter “Discharger,” “Supplier,” “Distributor,” or
“Supplier and Distributor”) owns and operates the wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal services for the service area including the City of San Juan Bautista and three
vegetable processing plants outside of the City. The Discharger submitted a Report of
Waste Discharge (ROWD) dated January 30, 2008. The ROWD proposes modification of
the existing wastewater treatment to treat a portion of the effluent to reclaimed water
standards for local reuse. The Discharger submitted an Engineering Report on the
Production, Distribution, and Use of Recycled Water for the City of San Juan Bautista to
the Regional Water Board in December 2007, which described the proposed
modifications.
Influent flows by gravity through a comminutor and into the influent lift station, where it is
pumped to the pond sequence batch reactor (SBR). The pond SBR is utilized to oxidize
organic matter and to provide nitrogen removal. Biosolids generated in the SBR are
wasted to Pond 2, which acts to stabilize and store sludge. The secondary effluent is
decanted to seven 10,000-gallon storage tanks for flow equalization and gravity flows to
monomedia (sand) filters. A coagulant is added to the secondary effluent prior to filtration
to aid in particulate removal, and filtration is set at less than five gallons per minute per
square foot of filter area, with one unit out of service at any time. The filtered effluent is UV
disinfected, and when reclaimed water meeting Title 22 CCR, Division 4, Chapter 3, Water
Reclamation Criteria (T22) is being produced, the filtered and UV disinfected effluent is
chlorinated with sodium hypochlorite with a total of 110 minutes of contact time.
Reclaimed effluent is stored in a 5,000-gallon storage tank and discharged for reclaimed
use at Discharge Point 002 (Monitoring Location REC-001, as described in Attachment E,
Monitoring and Reporting Program.) Initial use of reclaimed effluent is proposed as
landscape irrigation in a nearby residential development and as irrigation in a neighboring
cemetery, with future use as possible irrigation of non-restricted landscape areas within
the City.
Potential causes of terminating reclaimed water production include:
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-2 · Failure of the sodium hypochlorite disinfection system or a low chlorine residual
reading,
· Filter controller failure,
· High turbidity reading for the sand filter influent or effluent, or
· Wet weather resulting in influent flows to the plant exceeding wet weather capacity.
If reclaimed water production is terminated, the filters will stop filtering secondary effluent
and the secondary effluent will overflow into Pond 2. If the problem is not resolved while
Pond 2 is filling, the valve to the chlorine contact pipe system will be manually closed and
the filtration of secondary effluent will be restarted. This filtered effluent will be UV
disinfected and discharged to the treatment plant outfall until reclaimed water production
can resume.
III. RATIONALE FOR REQUIREMENTS
California Water Code Section 13523 provides that the Regional Water Board may
prescribe water reclamation requirements for water, which is used or proposed to be used
as reclaimed water. The Regional Water Board has consulted with the State of California
Department of Public Health (DPH) and has incorporated the recommendations from the
DPH regarding the regulation of discharging reclaimed water. The requirements of this
attachment conform with and implement the water reclamation criteria of the DPH and
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Chapter 3 to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
Footnotes are listed throughout these requirements to indicate the source of requirements
specified. Numbered footnotes generally reference code sections for direct citations.
Footnote acronyms are as follows:
BPJ Best Professional Judgment of Regional Water Quality Control Board Staff
ROWD City of San Juan Bautista Report of Waste Discharge, January 2008
40CFR Title 40 Code of Federal Regulations
BP Central Coast Regional Water Quality Control Plan
DPH California Department of Public Health
T22 Title 22 CCR, Division 4, Chapter 3, Water Reclamation Criteria
CWC Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act (California Water Code)
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-3 IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, pursuant to authority in Sections 13263, 13523, and 13523.1 of
the California Water Code, that the City of San Juan Bautista, its agents, successors, and
assigns, may produce, store and distribute reclaimed wastewater provided it complies with
the following:1
The Discharger shall comply with all Prohibitions, Specification, and Provisions as
applicable, and shall ensure that indirect Users also comply with these requirements. The
Supplier and Distributor shall comply with the specific Supplier Requirements and
Distributor/User Requirements, respectively. The Distributer shall ensure that indirect
Users also comply with applicable Distributor/User Requirements.
A. Prohibitions
1. Discharge of treated wastewater to areas other than disposal areas, or areas of
authorized storage and use, is prohibited. ROWD, BPJ
2. Discharge of untreated or partially treated wastes to areas other than to waste
disposal, including overflows, bypasses, seepages, and spills, is prohibited. BPJ, PC
3. Discharge of treated wastewater within 50-feet of all active or inactive water supply
wells is prohibited. DPH
4. The treatment, storage, distribution, or reuse of recycled water shall not create a
nuisance as defined in section 13050(m) of the California Water Code. CWC
5. Daily average flow rates through the facility’s treatment system surpassing the
capacity of the pressure sand filters or the chlorine contact basin is prohibited.
6. Recycled water used for irrigation is prohibited during periods of rainfall or when
soils are saturated such that ponding or runoff occurs. BPJ
7. Recycled water applied at a rate or volume that will exceed vegetative demand or
soil moisture conditions is prohibited. DPH
8. Recycled water shall not be discharged from the treatment facilities, storage ponds,
or other containment, other than for designated irrigation or other approved reuse
applications in accordance with this Order, to the “extent practical.” BPJ
9. There shall be no cross-connections between the potable water supply and pipes
containing recycled water. Supplementing recycled water with water used for
domestic supply shall not be allowed except through an air-gap separation that
complies with the requirements of Section 7602(a) and 7603(b) of Title 17, California
Code of Regulations (CCR).DPH

1 General permit conditions, definitions and the method of determining compliance are contained in Attachment D,
included as part of this Order.

CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-4 10. In accordance with CCR Title 17, Section 7605, a reduced pressure principle
backflow device shall be provided at premises where recycled water is used and
there is no interconnection with the potable water system.2, BPJ, T22, DPH
11. Transportation of undisinfected recycled water within a pipeline used to transport
Title 22 compliant recycled water is prohibited. DPH
12. Use of disinfected recycled water for direct human consumption or for processing of
food or drink intended for human consumption is prohibited. DPH
B. Limitations
Flow and General Limitations
1. Daily average influent wastewater flow to the chlorine contact chamber shall not
exceed 0.14 MGD, which is the chlorine contact chamber treatment daily capacity.
2. The effluent pH shall not be less than 6.5 or greater than 8.4. BP
Disinfected Tertiary Recycled Water Limitations
3. The Supplier shall ensure that treated effluent put to use for disinfected tertiary
recycled water applications shall be an adequately oxidized, filtered, and disinfected
water, as defined in CCR Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, Sections 60301-60335, or
alternatively defined and approved by DPH.
4. The turbidity of the disinfected tertiary recycled water shall not exceed any of the
following: 3, 4, 5
a. An average of 2 NTU within a 24-hour period;
b. 5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time within a 24-hour period; and,
c. 10 NTU at any time.
5. Disinfected tertiary recycled water shall not contain total coliform concentrations
exceeding the following limits: 6

2 This requirement does not apply to individual residences using recycled water for landscape irrigation as part of
an approved dual plumbed use area as defined in CCR Title 17, Table 1 Section (c)(3).
3 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap.3, Section 60301.320
4 Pursuant to CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap.3, Section 60301.320(a) coagulation need not be used as part of the
treatment process provided that the filter effluent turbidity does not exceed 2 NTU, the turbidity of the influent to
the filters is continuously measured, the influent turbidity does not exceed 5 NTU for more than 15 minutes and
never exceeds 10 NTU, and that there is the capability to automatically activate chemical addition or divert the
wastewater should the filter influent turbidity exceed 5 NTU for more than 15 minutes.
5 Pursuant to CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap.3, Section 60301.320(b) for filtration via microfiltration, ultrafiltration,
nanofiltration, or reverse osmosis the effluent turbidity shall not exceed 0.2 NTU more than 5 percent of the time
within a 24-hour period, and 0.5 NTU at any time.
6 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap.3, Section 60301.230
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-5 a. the seven-day median concentration must not exceed an Most Probable Number
(MPN) of 2.2 per 100 milliliters (ml); and
b. concentrations must not exceed an MPN of 23 per 100 ml in more than one
sample taken over a 30-day period;
c. concentrations must be less than an MPN of 240 per 100 ml at all times.
6. The chlorine residual within the disinfection process following filtration shall provide
a CT value7 of not less than 450 milligram-minutes per liter at all times with a modal
contact time of at least 90 minutes, based on peak dry weather design flow.
C. Supplier and Distributor Requirements
1. The Supplier and Distributor must submit to, and obtain approval from, the DPH and
the Regional Water Board a plan for the recycled water distribution system from the
facility to the use areas prior to initial delivery of recycled water. The plan should
show drawing and maps of the locations of the potable water, sewer, and recycled
water pipelines. The drawings should indicate adequate separation between the
recycled water and potable domestic water lines as required by California
Waterworks Standards sections 64572(c) and (d). The recycled water and potable
domestic water lines should be marked clearly or labeled using separate colors for
identification. The Discharger must prepare as-built drawings and keep them on file
once construction is completed.
2. The DPH, accompanied by Regional Water Board staff, will conduct a site visit at the
facility, to inspect, evaluate and verify the operation of all alarms, set-points, and
failsafe procedures associated with the tertiary recycled water treatment facilities
prior to start-up.
3. Reclamation facilities shall be operated in conformance with the American Water
Works Association, California-Nevada Section’s Guidelines for the Distribution of
Non-potable Water, with the Distributor’s approved reclaimed water use rules and
regulations (which may clarify and/or modify the above guidelines), and with the
appropriate local administrative procedures.
4. Personnel involved in producing, transporting, or using recycled water shall be
informed of possible health hazards that may result from contact and use of recycled
water. T22, BPJ
5. Personnel involved in inspecting, maintaining or operating any distribution system
equipment for recycled water shall be informed of the possible health hazards that
may result from contact and use of recycled water. T22, BPJ
6. Delivery of recycled water shall cease during any period in which the Discharger fails
to produce “disinfected tertiary recycled water” meeting CCR Title 22 criteria. The

7 The product of total chlorine residual and modal contact time measured at the same point.
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-6 delivery of recycled water shall not be resumed until all conditions that caused the
limits to be violated have been corrected and recycled effluent in the storage tank is
suitable for disinfected tertiary recycled water applications. BPJ
7. Signage (in English and Spanish) shall be posted in the recycled effluent storage
tank area and all use areas with public access to warn the public that recycled
wastewater is being stored or used. BPJ
8. Recycled water systems shall be properly labeled and regularly inspected to ensure
proper operation, absence of leaks, and absence of illegal connections. BPJ, T22
9. The Supplier and Distributor shall maintain in good working order and operate as
efficiently as possible any facility or control system installed by the Supplier,
Distributor or Users to achieve compliance with this Order.
10. The Supplier and Distributor shall implement, and ensure that Users implement,
annual employee training to ensure proper operation of reclamation facilities, worker
protection, and compliance with this Order.
11. The Supplier and Distributor shall ensure that all above-ground equipment, including
pumps, piping, storage reservoir, and valves, etc., under their respective control that
may at any time contain reclaimed water shall be adequately and clearly identified
with warning signs. The Supplier and Distributor shall make all necessary provisions
to inform the public that the water being stored or distributed is reclaimed municipal
wastewater and is unfit for human consumption. The Supplier and Distributor shall
ensure that each User complies with these requirements for all above-ground
equipment under a User’s control.
12. The facility shall be managed to minimize mosquito-breeding habitat. BPJ
Alarms 8
13. Alarm devices required for various unit processes as specified in other sections of
these Reclamation Requirements shall be installed to provide warning of:
a. Loss of power from the normal power supply.
b. Failure of a biological treatment process.
c. Failure of a disinfection process.
d. Failure of a filtration process.
e. Any other specific process failure for which warning is required by DPH or the
Regional Water Board.
All required alarm devices shall be independent of the normal power supply of the facility.

8 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60335
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-7 14. The person to be warned shall be the plant operator, superintendent, or any other
responsible person designated by the management of the reclamation plant and
capable of taking prompt corrective action.
15. Individual alarm devices may be connected to a master alarm to sound at a location
where it can be conveniently observed by the attendant. In case the reclamation
plant is not attended full time, a 24-hour autodialer notifying operation staff of any
alarm shall be installed or other alarm(s) shall be connected to sound at a police
station, fire station or other full-time service unit with which arrangements have been
made to alert the person in charge at times that the reclamation plant is unattended.
Power Supply 9
16. The power supply shall be provided with one of the following reliability features:
a. Alarm and standby power source.
b. Alarm and automatically actuated short-term retention or disposal provisions as
specified in Title 22 Section 60341.
c. Automatically actuated long-term storage or disposal provisions as specified in
Title 22 Section 60341.
Flexibility of Design 10
17. The design of process piping, equipment arrangement, and unit structures in the
reclamation plant must allow for efficiency and convenience in operation and
maintenance and provide flexibility of operation to permit the highest possible
degree of treatment to be obtained under varying circumstances.
Personnel 11
18. Each reclamation plant shall be provided with a sufficient number of qualified
personnel to operate the facility effectively to achieve the required level of treatment
at all times.
19. Qualified personnel shall be those meeting requirements established pursuant to
Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 13625) of the Water Code.
Maintenance 12
20. A preventive maintenance program shall be provided at each reclamation plant to
ensure that all equipment is kept in a reliable operating condition.

9 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60337
10 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60333
11 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60325
12 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60327
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-8 21. Flow meters and other process instrumentation will be calibrated in accordance with
manufacturers’ recommendations and best management practices for the industry.
Operating Records and Reports 13
22. Operating records shall be maintained at the reclamation plant or a central
depository within the operating agency. These shall include all analyses specified in
the reclamation criteria; records of operational problems, plant and equipment
breakdowns, and diversions to emergency storage or disposal; all corrective or
preventive action taken.
23. Process or equipment failures triggering an alarm shall be recorded and maintained
as a separate record file. The recorded information shall include the time and cause
of failure and corrective action taken.
24. A monthly summary of operating records as specified in Reclamation Monitoring and
Reporting Requirements (Attachment H) shall be filed monthly with the Regional
Water Board. 14
25. Any discharge of untreated or partially treated wastewater to the use area shall be
reported immediately by telephone to Regional Water Board staff, the DPH, and the
local environmental health officer at the numbers provided in the Reclamation
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements (Attachment H).
Bypass 15
26. There shall be no bypass of untreated or partially treated wastewater from the
reclamation plant or any intermediate unit processes to the point of use.
Contingency Plan
27. In the event that effluent discharged does not meet the criteria for disinfected
recycled water, the Supplier shall implement the measures described in the
Contingency Plan. 16
28. The Contingency Plan shall be reviewed and updated annually as necessary. A
copy of the revised Off-Specification Contingency Plan or statement indicating the
Plan has been reviewed, but not updated, shall be submitted to the Regional Water
Board as part of the annual monitoring report. BPJ
29. Alternative reuse methods for off-specification effluent may be implemented on an
as-needed basis if they meet the criteria for the “Uses of Recycled Water” contained

13 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60329
14 Per CCR Title 22 Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60301.740. "Regulatory agency" means the California Regional
Water Quality Control Board(s) that have jurisdiction over the recycling plant and use areas.
15 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60331
16 December 2007, Bracewell Engineering, Engineering Report on the Production, Distribution, and Use of
Recycled Water for the City of San Juan Bautista
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-9 in CCR Title 22, Division. 4, Chapter 3, Article 3 (Sections 60303-60309) and prior
approval is given by the Regional Water Board and DPH. BPJ
Sludge and Solid Waste
(Sludge in this document means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during
primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to
grit and screening material generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge
means sludge that will not be subject to further treatment. Biosolids refers to sludge that
has been treated and tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially and legally
used pursuant to federal and state regulations as a soil amendment for agriculture,
silviculture, horticulture, or land reclamation activities.)
30. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from treatment facilities as needed to
ensure optimal facility operation.
31. Treatment and storage of sludge shall be confined on-site and conducted in a
manner that precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
concentration that will violate Groundwater Limitations (see below).
32. Any storage of residual sludge and solid waste shall be temporary and controlled
and contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation and precludes
infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or concentration that will violate
Groundwater Limitations.
33. Sludge and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive
Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for further treatment, disposal, or
reuse at sites (i.e., landfill, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in
accordance with valid waste discharge requirements issued by the Regional Water
Board will satisfy this specification.
34. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste discharge
requirements issued by the Regional Water Board. In most cases, this will mean the
General Biosolids Order (SWRCB Water Quality Order No. 2004-0012-DWQ,
General Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to Land for
Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land
Reclamation Activities). For a biosolids use project to be covered by the General
Biosolids Order, the Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a
Notice of Applicability for each project.
35. Use and disposal of biosolids should comply with the self-implementing federal
regulations of Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 503, which are
subject to enforcement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency not the
Regional Water Board. If during the life of this Order the State accepts primacy for
implementation of 40 CFR 503, the Regional Water Board may also initiate
enforcement where appropriate.
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-10 General Requirements
36. Best management practices shall be implemented to minimize the inflow and
infiltration of storm water and/or unauthorized wastewater into the facility. BPJ
37. All storm water contacting raw domestic wastewater or disinfected tertiary recycled
water shall be contained and managed as raw domestic wastewater. BPJ
38. The Supplier shall provide quarterly irrigation reports to the Distributor and Users
documenting facility influent flows, User irrigation flows (including facility irrigation
flows reported separately), and the amount of recycled effluent in storage and
remaining storage capacity. BPJ
39. Prior to use of the recycled water supply on a site, the Distributor and Supplier
should ensure that the use area is inspected and tested for possible cross
connections with the potable water system. The inspections and testing should be
performed by a cross connection control specialist certified by the California-Nevada
section of the American Water Works Association or an organization with equivalent
certification requirements. A written report documenting the result of the inspection
or testing for the prior year should be submitted to DPH and Water Board within 30
days following completion of the inspection or testing.
D. User Requirements17
1. The application of disinfected tertiary recycled water is limited to the following areas
pursuant to Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, Section 60304 of the California Code of
Regulations:
Surface irrigation:
a. Food crops, including all edible root crops, where the recycled water comes into
contact with the edible portion of the crop,
b. Parks and playgrounds,
c. School yards,
d. Residential landscaping,
e. Unrestricted access golf courses,18
f. Cemeteries
g. Freeway landscaping
h. Ornamental nursery stock, Christmas tree farms, and sod farms,
i. Fodder, fiber and pasture for animals producing milk for human consumption,
j. Orchards and vineyards, and;
k. Seed crops not eaten by humans.

Other uses:
a) Impoundments,

17 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60310
18 For golf course use, the scorecards must clearly state that reclaimed water is used for irrigation.BPJ
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-11 b) Industrial or commercial cooling or air conditioning that involves the use of a
cooling tower, evaporative condenser, spraying or any mechanism that may
create a mist,
c) Industrial boiler feed,
d) Flushing toilets and urinals,
e) Priming drain traps,
f) Industrial process water,
g) Structural and nonstructural fire fighting,
h) Mixing concrete,
i) Decorative fountains,
j) Commercial laundries,
k) Construction water for backfill consolidation, soil compaction, mixing concrete
and dust control at construction sites,
l) Commercial car washes, including hand washes if the recycled water is not
heated, where the general public is excluded from the washing process, and
m) Cleaning roads, sidewalks, and outdoor work areas.

2. The Supplier and Distributor shall not add additional use areas or users other than
those specified in User Requirement item D.1 above, unless the proposed use is
submitted to and approved by DPH and the Executive Officer.
3. No irrigation with disinfected tertiary recycled water shall take place within 50 feet of
any domestic water supply well unless all of the following conditions have been met:
a. A geological investigation demonstrates that an aquitard exists at the well
between the uppermost aquifer being drawn from and the ground surface.
b. The well contains an annular seal that extends from the surface into the aquitard.
c. The well is housed to prevent any recycled water spray from coming into contact
with the wellhead facilities.
d. The ground surface immediately around the wellhead is contoured to allow
surface water to drain away from the well.
e. The owner of the well approves of the elimination of the buffer zone requirement.
4. No impoundment of disinfected tertiary recycled water shall occur within 100 feet of
any domestic water supply well.
5. Any use of recycled water shall comply with the following:
a. Any irrigation runoff shall be confined to the recycled water use area, unless the
runoff does not pose a public health threat and is authorized by the Regional
Water Board.
b. Spray, mist, or runoff shall not enter dwellings, designated outdoor eating areas,
or food handling facilities.
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-12 6. Drinking water fountains shall be protected against contact with recycled water
spray, mist, or runoff.
7. Spray irrigation of recycled water shall be accomplished at a time and in a manner to
minimize ponding and the possibility of public contact with sprayed materials. BPJ
8. No spray irrigation of any recycled water, other than disinfected tertiary recycled
water, shall take place within 100 feet of a residence or a place where public
exposure could be similar to that of a park, playground, or school yard.
9. All use areas where recycled water is used that are accessible to the public shall be
posted with signs that are visible to the public, in a size no less than 4 inches high by
8 inches wide, that include the following wording: "RECYCLED WATER - DO NOT
DRINK." Each sign shall display an international symbol similar to that shown in
figure 60310-A of CCR Title 22, Section 60310. The Regional Water Board may
accept alternative signage and wording, or an educational program, provided the
applicant demonstrates to the Regional Water Board that the alternative approach
will ensure an equivalent degree of public notification.
10. Except as allowed under section 7604 of title 17, California Code of Regulations, no
physical connection shall be made or allowed to exist between any recycled water
system and any separate system conveying potable water.
11. The portions of the recycled water piping system that are in areas subject to access
by the general public shall not include any hose bibs. Only quick couplers that differ
from those used on the potable water system shall be used on the portions of the
recycled water piping system in areas subject to public access.
12. The Distributor shall ensure that backflow prevention devices are in proper working
order by testing initially and annually thereafter, in accordance with CCR Title 18,
Section 7605. Reports of testing and maintenance shall be maintained by the
Distributor.
Design Requirements
13. The public water supply shall not be used as a backup or supplemental source of
water for a dual-plumbed recycled water system unless the connection between the
two systems is protected by an air gap separation which complies with the
requirements of sections 7602(a) and 7603(a) of title 17, California Code of
Regulations, and the approval of the public water system has been obtained.19
14. All pipes installed above or below the ground, on and after June 1, 1993, that are
designed to carry recycled water, shall be colored purple or distinctively wrapped with
purple tape. 20

19 CCR Title 22, Div. 4, Chap. 3, Section 60315
20 California Health & Safety Code Section 116815
CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-13 15. The City of San Juan Bautista has a Cross Connection Control Ordinance that will be
used to prevent cross connection between the recycled water system and potable
water system. 21
Nutrient Management Plan
16. Hydraulic and nutrient loading rates for the application of disinfected tertiary recycled
water shall be based on food crop, vegetation or landscaping consumption and
tolerance and shall not exceed what is reasonable for production of the food crops,
vegetation or landscaping (i.e., recycled water shall be applied in an amount that will
not cause nitrogen within the root zone to exceed the agronomic demand for
nitrogen and result in the leaching of nitrate to groundwater). BPJ
17. The Supplier and Distributor shall prepare and implement a Nutrient Management
Plan (NMP) for the application of recycled water to protect the beneficial uses of
groundwater. The NMP shall account for all nutrient loading to the application areas
and ensure that the total amount of nitrogen applied does not exceed the amount of
nitrogen required by the food crops, vegetation or landscaping being irrigated.
18. As part of the NMP, the Supplier and Distributor shall submit an annual report
documenting allowable and actual nitrogen loading to the recycled water application
areas. The report shall include, at a minimum:
a. Analysis of the contributing sources of nutrients being applied to the recycled
water application areas;
b. Analysis of annual nitrogen loading to the basin and individual application areas
from each contributing source;
c. Analysis of the allowable nutrient and hydraulic loading (based on limiting
nitrogen loading) of recycled water based on characteristic effluent data for
nitrogen, other contributing nitrogen sources, and the nutritive requirements of
the application areas;
d. Comparison of the actual and allowable annual nitrogen loading rates;
e. Analysis of groundwater monitoring data for nitrogen constituents;
f. Evaluation of potential impacts of nutrient loading on the groundwater basin;
g. Evaluation of potential nutrient reduction measures; and,
h. Recommendations and time schedules for the implementation of measures
addressing excessive nitrogen loading (i.e. actual loading greater than allowable
loading) as applicable.

21 December 2007, Bracewell Engineering, Engineering Report on the Production, Distribution, and Use of
Recycled Water for San Juan Bautista.

CITY OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA ORDER NO. R3-2009-0019
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047902



Attachment G – Reclamation Requirements G-14 19. Annual NMP reports are due January 31st of each year and may be included as
part of the annual monitoring report. The first annual NMP report is due January
31, 2010. The NMP shall be reviewed and updated annually thereafter as
necessary. A copy of the revised NMP or statement indicating the NMP has been
reviewed, but not updated shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board as part of
the annual monitoring reports.
20. Additional annual NMP reports will not be required upon request by the Supplier and
Distributor and approval by the Executive Officer given the following conditions are
met:
a. The initial nitrogen loading evaluation indicates the application of recycled water
at appropriate hydraulic rates along with other nitrogen sources will not exceed
the nutritive requirements of the food crops, vegetation or landscaping being
irrigated;
b. Recycled water is not over applied in an effort to increase disposal that may
result in significant soil flushing and runoff;
c. A NMP is implemented for the controlled application of fertilizers by landscaping
contractors maintaining the application areas; and,
d. Effluent nitrogen concentrations from the facility regularly meet or are less than
the