wastewater treatment and disposal areas.

3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. B.2 , the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall
not be less than 1.0 mg/l.

4. The effluent from the WWTF shall not exceed the following limits:

 Monthly
 Constituent Units Average Maximum
 BOD 51 mg/l 40 80
 Total Suspended Solids mg/l 40 80
 Settleable Solids ml/l 0.2 0.5
1 5-day, 20C BOD test.

5. Percolation ponds s hall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.0.

6. Percolation ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In
particular:

a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities
 are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.

b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
 herbicides.

c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.

7. Public contact with waste water in the treatment and disposal areas shall be
precluded through such means as fences and signs, or acceptable alternatives.

8. The WWTF shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent
inundation or washout due to floods with a 100 -year return frequency.

9. Percolation ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and
infiltration during the wint er. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total
annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in
accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be less than two
feet in any pond (measured vert ically).

10. On or about 1 October of each year, one of the two ponds shall be empty and the
bottom sufficiently dry to allow for pond bottom maintenance. The pond emptied
shall alternate every year such that each pond will receive service every other year.
Maintenance shall consist of discing pond bottoms and, as necessary, excavating to
restore design depth and percolation rate.

C. Sludge Disposal:

1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall
be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with
Consolidated Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid
Waste , as set forth in Title 27, California Code of Regulations, Division 2,
Subdivision 1, Section 20005, et seq.

2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 60 days in advance of the change.

3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal, state, and
local laws, regulations, and ordi nances, including permitting requirements and
technical standards included in 40 CFR 503.

If the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality
Control Boards assume primacy to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR
503, this Order may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules and
technical standards. The Discharger must comply with the standards and time
schedules contained in 40 CFR 503 whether or not they have been incorporated
into this Order.

D. Groundwater Limitat ions:

The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying
groundwater to contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than
background groundwater quality.

E. Provisions:

1. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 99 -039,
which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive
Officer.

2. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements," dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."

3. Disposal capacity at conditions spec ified in this Order is unproven. At greater flow,
the Discharger may be required to submit a water balance which demonstrates that
evaporation/percolation ponds have sufficient capacity to comply with Discharge
Specification B.9. The report shall be prepa red by a California registered engineer
with experience in wastewater disposal. Failure to demonstrate necessary disposal
capacity will be cause to open and revise the Order to reflect a lower allowable
capacity.

4. The Discharger shall notify the Board at least 120 days prior to any planned
physical alterations or additions to the WWTF.

5. The Discharger shall use the best practicable control technique
currently available to comply with this Order.

6. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the Mobile Home Pa rk and shall be available
for reference by the WWTF operator, who shall be familiar with it’s contents.

7. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facilities described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding o wner or
operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be
immediately forwarded to this office.

To assume operation under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply
in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request
must contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the State of incorporation if a
corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the persons responsible
for contact with the Bo ard, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the
signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3 and state that the proposed owner or
operator assumes full responsibility for compliance with this Order. Failure to
submit the request shall be consi dered a discharge without requirements, a violation
of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the
Executive Officer.

8. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical an d monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision
or rescission of this Order.

9. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.

I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quali ty Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 30 April 1999.



 GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer

CTS:fmc:4/30/99
 CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
 CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

 MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 99 -039
 FOR
MR. EDGAR HUDSON
 KINGS CANYON MOBILE HOME PARK
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
 FRESNO COUNTY

Specific sample station locations shall be established with concurrence of the Board's staff. A
description of the stations shall be submitted to Board and attached to this Program.

 INFLUENT MONITORING

Influent monitoring shall include at lea st the following:

 Sampling
Constituent Units Type of Sample Frequency
Daily Flow Gals/day Estimate1 Daily
 ____________________________
1 WWTF flow shall be estimated from readings taken from the park’s water supply flow meter.


 EFFLUENT MONITORING

Effluent samples shall be collected just prior to discharge to the percolation ponds. Effluent
samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection of
grab samples shall be recorded. Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:

 Sampling
Constituents Units Type of Sample Frequency
BOD 51 mg/l Grab 2/Month3
 Total Suspended Solids mg/l Grab 2/Month3
Settleable Solids ml/l Grab 2/Month3
EC2 µmhos/cm Grab Annual
___________________
1 Five day, 20 C biological oxygen demand test
2 Conductivity @ 25o C.
3 If results indicate violation of the