FACILITY D ESCRIPTION
The Cayucos Sa nitary District currently discharges to the existing Morro Bay/Cayucos
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) under Order No. R3 -2017 -0050 , NPDES No.
CA0047881 . The Central Coast Water Board issued Time Schedule Order No. R3 -2018 -
0019 t o the Cayucos Sanitary Di strict and the City of Morro Bay requiring compliance with
Order No. R3 -2017 -0050 , NPDES No. CA0047881 . Within the schedule necessitated by
Time Schedule Order No. R3 -2018 -0019, the Cayucos Sanitary District is constructing t he
Facility as part of the Cayucos Sustainable Water Project (CSWP) , a phased , multi -year
project designed to deliver a sustainable water resource recovery system to the
community of Cayucos. Wastewater from t he Cayucos Sanitary District will continue to be
treated at a nd discharge d from the existing Morro Bay/Cayucos WWTP under Order No.
R3-2017 -0050 , NPDES No. CA0047881 until the constructed Facility is fully operational.

When the Facility is operational, wastewater from the Cayucos Sanitary District that is
currentl y treated and discharged at the Morro Bay/Cayucos WWTP will be treated at and
discharged from the Cayucos Sanitary District Water Resource Recovery Facility . Treated
effluent from the Cayucos Sanitary District Water Resource Recovery Facility will initial ly
be discharge d to the Pacific Ocean , at a location less than two kilometers north of the
existing Morro Bay/Cayucos WWTP discharge location, until the Discharger implements a
long-term beneficial reuse strategy. To implement the first phase of the project, the
Cayucos Sanitary District is constr ucting the Facility at a site in the Toro Creek valley
approximately 0.75 miles inland from State Route 1 north of Morro Bay . The Facility will
have a n average annual daily design flow of 0.34 million gallon s per day (MGD) and
discharge secondary and tertiary treated wastewater production water to the Pacific
CAYUCOS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2020 -0004
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA3000001
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5Ocean . The Discharger plans to initiate Facility operations by September 2020 and
expect s the Facility to be fully operational by December 2020.
A. Descrip tion of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and will operate the Facility that will provide sewerage service
to the Cayucos Sanitary District. The Cayucos Sanitary District is located within the
unincorporated communi ty of Cayucos and serves a population of approximately
2,904 people. Construction of the Facility is part of the CSWP , a multi -year project to
provide Cayucos with efficient, reliable and adaptable wastewater treatment, while
producing a high-quality water supply to benefit the community. The CSWP includes
infrastructure, pipelines and appurtenances for influent, effluent, recycled water , and
processed discharge water consist ing of multiple phases. The first p hase includes
construction of the Facility , related con veyance pipelines , and ocean outfall/diffuse r;
production of tertiary treated water for onsite uses including irrigation , fire protection,
and process water ; and discharge of effluent to the constructed ocean outfall. In the
follow ing planning and assessme nt documents, the Discharger assesse d beneficial
reuse alternatives and associated additional treatment needs for the treated effluent
from the Facility for implementation in subsequent project phases: 1) June 23, 2017
CSWP Recycle d Water Facilities Planni ng Study and 2) April 20, 2017 final
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the CSWP .
The Facility wastewater treatment process will be comp osed of headworks screening
and grit removal facilities, a membrane bioreactor with submerged hollow -fiber
membranes , solids dewatering screw press, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The
process is designed to treat the Cayucos Sanitary District 's buildout average annual
daily flow of 0.34 MGD, with bypass piping capable of conveying pea k wet weather
flows to two equal ization basins. All flows in the equalization basins will be routed
back through the wastewater treatment process, starting at the beginning of the
headworks.

Raw wastewater will be conveyed from Cayucos Sanitary District 's terminal lift station
(Lift St ation 5) to the headworks facilities, which will include two parallel coarse
screens, followed by a single vortex grit removal unit and two parallel fine screens.
Screenings and grit from the headworks facilities will be hauled offsite for disposal.
Screen ed wastewater will flow into the membrane bioreactor , which will be configured
as two parallel activated sludge treatment trains , each consisting of pre -anoxic,
aerobic , and post -anoxic basins in -series. Downstream of the po st-anoxic basins, flow
will comb ine in a membrane feed channel that will convey mixed liquor to three
parallel membrane tanks, each equipped with submerged hollow -fiber membrane
modules. Permeate from the membranes will be pumped downstream for UV
disinfec tion, prior to disposal of treat ed effluent through the outfall or distribution for
recycled water use offsite and to the onsite Recycled Water storage tank for Facility
on-site reuse applications including supply water for treatment processes, on-site
landscape irrigation, and fire prot ection . The Facility is designed to treat wastewater
to disinfected tertiary recycled water standards, as defined by title 22 section
60301.230.

The Discharger will only be chlorinating the recycled water to main tain a residual in the
CAYUCOS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2020 -0004
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA3000001
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6recycled water stora ge tank. The Discharger will not be chlorinating the effluent being
discharged at Discharger Point No. 001. Treated effluent that does not meet effluent
discharge standards can be manually diverted to the equaliza tion basins downstream
of the UV disinfecti on unit.

Waste activated sludge solids will be wasted from the membrane tanks to a
dewatering screw press for dewatering of solids prior to being hauled off-site for
further processing and reuse as compost, and/or disposal. Initially, the Discharger
plans to contract with Mission County Disposal to transport its biosolids for land
application at Cold Canyon Landfill.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A. of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is currently
cons tructi ng the first phase of the Cayucos Sustainable Water Project, which includes
construction of the Facility. The first p hase of the project include s completion of the
Facility , related conveyance pipes , and the ocean outfall with diffuser . The Discharge r
estimates the Facility will commence operation in December 2020. For subsequent
phases, the Discharger is assessing implementation of additional treatment, if
deemed necessary to achieve the long-term reuse strategy, and infrastructure to
support long -term beneficial reuse of recycled water produced at the Facility. The
Discharger is assessing multiple options, including the following: the construction of a
conveyance pipeline for recycled water to Whale Rock Reservoir for reservoir
augmentat ion or to the County Service Area (CSA) 10 Surface Water Treatment
Facility for production of direct potable recycled water and agricultural reuse.
1 Hydrodynamic Analys is of a Diffuser Retrofit to the Estero Marine Terminal Pipeline for the
Cayucos Sustainable Water Project (CSWP), Michael Baker International, July 24, 2018.
CAYUCOS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2020 -0004
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA3000001
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7III.