FACILITY INFORMATION
Information describing the City of Rio Dell (Permittee) Wastewater Treatment Facility
(Facility) is summarized on the cover page and in sections 1 and 2 of the Fact Sheet
(Attachment F). Section 1 of the Fact Sheet also includes information regarding the
Facility’s permit application.
2.FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region ( Regional
Water Board ), finds:
2.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as waste discharge requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article 4,
chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water Code (commencing with section
13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean
Water Act (CWA) and i mplementing regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and
chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13370). It
shall serve as a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
authorizing the Permittee to discharge into wa ters of the United States at the
discharge location described in Table 1 subject to the WDRs in this Order. This
Order also serves as water r ecycling requirements pursuant to article 4, chapter 7,
division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13500 ).
2.2. Background and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the application, through monitoring and reporting
programs, and other available information. The Fact S heet (Attachment F), which
contains background information and rationale for the requirements in this Order,
is hereby incorporated into and constitutes Findings for this Order. Attachments A
through E and Attachment H are also incorporated into this Order .
2.3. Provisions and Requirements Implementing State Law
The provisions/requirements in subsections 3.1, 3.2, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 4.2, 4.3, 5.2, and
6.3.5.1 and sections 6, 7, 10.5 of the MRP are included to implement state law only.
These provisions/requirements a re not required or authorized under the federal CWA;
consequently, violations of these provisions/requirements are not subject to the
enforcement remedies that are available for NPDES violations.
2.4. Notification of Interested Parties
The Regional Water Board has notified the Permittee and interested agencies and
persons of its intent to prescribe WDRs for discharge and has provided them with
an opportunity to submit their written comments and recommendations. Details of
the notification are provided in the Fac t Sheet.
CITY OF RIO DELL ORDER NO. R1-2023-0022
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0022748
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS 6 2.5. Compliance Schedule Recension
The requirements and interim