FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection and treatment facility,
which provides service to the City of El Paso de Robles. The Facility currently
serves a population of approximately 32,000 people.
The Facility receives domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater.
The Discharger commissioned an upgraded wastewater treatment process in April
2015. Construction of the $47.2 million, phased upgrade project was substantially
completed in April 2016. The upgraded process is designed to remove ammoni
a
and comply with a total nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to construct a recycled water distribution system in two
phases to divert disinfected tertiary treated wastewater from the Facility for direct
non-potable uses within the City and surrounding areas. Phase I includes the
construction of approximately 40,400 feet of transmission main pipelines in three
distinct segments and approximately 2,000 feet of distribution main pipeline. Phase
II infrastructure and recycled water use sites ha ve not yet been determined. The
Discharger currently proposes to provide disinfected tertiary treated wastewater for
City and agricultural irrigation. Additionally, the Discharger proposes to use the
same distribution system to discharge tertiary treated e ffluent to Huerhuero Creek
(Discharge Points 002A and 002B ) to passively recharge the u nderlying aquifer,
Paso Robles Groundwater Basin, to help alleviate basin -wide overdraft conditions.
As tertiary treated wastewater and recycled water from the Facility is pumped into
the recycled water pipeline, the Discharger plans to inject a sodium hypochlorite
solution (chlorine) to achieve a chlorine residual concentration of 0.5 to 1.5
mg/L. This is to prevent regrowth of bacteria within the conveyance system as th e
water travels approximately four miles to the vicinity of Barney Schwartz Sports
Park. At the Barney Schwartz Sports Park maintenance yard, the Discharger plans
to install a dechlorination station to remove any residual chlorine from the water
before it is discharged into Huerhuero Creek. The dechlorination station will include
a small tank of sodium bisulfite solution (dechlorination agent), two dosing pumps, a
static mixer within the pipeline that delivers water to Huerhuero Creek, an
instrumentation an d control system, and water sampling ports.
3.