FACILITY DE SCRIPTION
A. Description of Civita Water Reclamation Facility .
The Facility is located at the north west corner of Friars Road and Russell Parkway in
the City of San Diego , California , Attachment A , and is being constructed as part of the
2 The City of San Diego, County of San Diego, and San Diego County Water Authority’s 2019
San Diego Integrated Regional Water Management Plan,
https://sdirwmp.org/pdf/SDI RWM_Final_2019_IRWM_Plan_compiled_2Jul19.pdf
3 See Practical Vision for “Strategy for Achieving a Sustainable Local Water Supply”
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/sandiego/water_issues/Practical_Vision/index.shtml
Attachment C August 12, 2020
Information Sheet
C-3Civita Development . The Facility will be a scalping plant with no solids treated onsi te,
and sludge processing occurring offsite at downstream City of San Diego facilities. The
projected average wastewater flow from the entire Civita Development at buildout is
1.684 mgd of ra w sewage treated to secondary effluent standards. The Facility will be
designed to produce a daily maximum of 0.33 mgd and a daily average of 0.26 mgd of
disinfected tertiary recycled water . The disinfected tertiary recycled water will be
produced from sec ondary treated effluent which will be approximately 15% of the Civita
build out wastewater flow . The treatment processes will include influent diversion and
pumping, screening, an aeration tank, a membrane bioreactor process, and a chlorine
disinfection sy stem. The headworks will be designed to divert and pump flow t o the start
of the treatment process. A drum screen will be installed to provide primary treatment
and protection of downstream processes. The membrane bioreactor process combines
activated slud ge (secondary treatment) with membrane filtration (tertiary treatment) ,
with the membrane units installed within the activated sludge reactor membrane tank .
Within the activated sludge reactor membrane tank clean water will be separated from
sludge and ext racted through flat plat e membranes. Disinfection will be accomplished
utilizing a chlorine disinfection system consisting of two dosing pumps installed on a
chemical feed skid which will provide each pump with a calibration colum n, pressure
relief valve, and a pulsing damper. A 480,000 -gallon storage tank wi ll serve as effluent
storage , a forebay for the effluent pumps , and provide for in -plant water needs.
B. Recycled Water Use .
Recycled water produced at the Facility will be used onsite for landscape irri gation on
the Civita Development Project .
The Facility will be designed to produce disinfected tertiary recycled water in
accordance with the requirements of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (title
22). The effluent use and disposal system w ill have a pump station and storage for use
before the ultimate disposal of recycled water from the Facility to either onsite
landscape irrigation or the existing offsite public sewer system and City of San Diego
Point Loma Wastewater T reatment plant. Due to sea sonal variations in demand, the
Facility will dispose of excess recycled water to the existing City of San Diego sewer
system during wet months and will need to be supplement ed with potable water to meet
peak demands during dry months. The Facility will provide an average of 2 60,000
gallons per day of recycled water to the Civita Development . In addition to offsetting the
required water demands of the Development , the Facility could potentially be expanded
to provide a new recycled water supply to the City of San Diego to serve potential
recycled water customers in the Civita service area (Attachment A) who are not in the
Civita Development Home Owners Association . A fut ure public elementary school has
been identified as a potential recycled wa ter user in the Civita service area. The Facility
could provide the City of San Diego with a recycled water source much closer to future
users in the Civita service area since prese ntly the nearest potential recycled water
source in the City of San Diego is the No rth City Water Reclamation Plant , more than
seven miles away.
Attachment C August 12, 2020
Information Sheet
C-4C. Disposal .
The Facility intends to dispose of excess recycled water that does not meet regulatory
requirements f or use as onsite landscape irrigation to the existing City of San Diego
Sewer syste m. The discharge of excess recycled water from the Facility will occur
through the Point Loma Ocean Outfall via the E. W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater
Treatment Plant pursuan t to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit
No. CA 0107409, Order N o. R9 -2017 -0007 , or reissued permit .
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in the Order are based on the requirements and authorities
descr ibed in this section.
A. Legal Authorities .
The Order is issued pursuant to section s 13263 and 13523.1 of the Water Code. The
Order serves as a Master Recycling Permit which also includes WDRs issued pursuant
to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the Water Code .
B. California Environmental Quality Act .
The San Diego Water Board is a responsi ble agency under the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) for the adoption of this Master Recycling Permit. The environmental
impacts associated with th e Facility’s construction and operation were analyzed and
approved by the City of San Diego Counc il in the Final Program Environmental Impact
Report for the Quarry Falls Project (Project No. 49068; SCH No. 2005081018 dated
July 23, 2008 ) (EIR).
As a responsible agency under CEQA, the San Diego Water Board considered the EIR,
and the Facility project’s environmental effects as described in the EIR . The San Diego
Water Board concurs that with the mitigation measures related to the construction and
opera tion of the Facility as described in the EIR, t hat the Facility project will not have
significant effec ts on water quality and resources within the San Diego Water Board’s
jurisdiction .
C. Water Quality Control Plans.
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sa n Diego Basin (Basin Plan) designates
beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contai ns implementation
programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the
plan. In addition, the Basin Plan implements Sta te Water Board Resolution No. 88 -63,
which established State policy that all waters, with certain excep tions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply. This Order
implements the Basin Plan by prescribing requir ements for the production, reuse, and
disposal of recycled water that will not adversely impact water q uality, beneficial uses,
human health, or the environment.
Attachment C August 12, 2020
Information Sheet
C-5D. Recycled Water Policy .
The Recycled Water Policy establishes criteria for recycled water proje cts, recycling
requirements, and WDRs. The intent of the Recycled Water Policy is to protect
designated beneficial uses and protect water quality while increasing recycled water
use, allowing for streamlined permitting for appropriate landscape irrigation projects,
and allowing basin -wide management of salts and nutrients. The Recycl ed Water Policy
states t hat the appropriate way to address salts and nutrients is through development of
regional and sub -regional salt /nutrient management plans (SNMPs) .
The Mission Valley B asin located in the central region of the City of San Diego and is
located in the Mission San Diego HSA (907.11) of the San Diego Hydrologic Unit is
designated as a low priority Tier D -1 basin in Table 7 -9 of 2019 IRWMP. Under these
guidelines, Tier D basins h ave high concentrations of TDS in the groundwater and have
TDS groundwater quality ob jectives that exceed 1,200 milligrams/liter ( mg/L ). The
guidelines conclude that SNMPs are not required within Tier D basins, as more than
adequate TDS assimilative capaci ty exists within the Tier D basins to support existing
and future recycled water use and ensure that recycled water use is protective of
groundwater quality and meets the stated objectives of the Recycled Water Policy .
Individual SNMPs have not been prepa red for the Tier D basins, however, the San
Diego County Water Authority included sal t and nutrient management planning
elements in its 201 9 IRWMP which addresses the Tier D and E basins in the San Diego
Region.
Recycled water use can help to reduce the sc arcity of local water supplies . It is not the
only option for bringing supply and dem and into a better balance, but it is a viable cost -
effective solution that is appropriate in many cases. The feasibility of recycled water use
depends on local circumstances, which affect the balance of costs and benefits. In
drought conditions, recycled water can be particularly valuable given the scarci ty of
alternative potable water supplies. In normal precipitation years recycled water use may
reduce the need for groundwater extraction. Broader and more effective uses of
recycled water are consistent w ith the goals and objectives of the Recycled Water
Policy and the San Diego Water Board’s Practical Vision strategy for achieving a
sustainable local water supply.5
E. Antidegradation Policy .
The State Water Board established California’s antidegradation poli cy in State Water
Board Resolution No. 68 -16, Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining High
Quality of Waters in California (Resolution No. 68 -16). Resolution No. 68 -16 requires
that existing quality of waters be maintained unless degradation is jus tified based on
specific findings. As discussed in section V of this Information Sheet, regulation of the
5 See Practical Vision for “Strategy for Achieving a Sustainable Local Water Supply”
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/sandiego/water_issues/programs/practical_vision/docs/PV_
5_Sustainable_Local_Water _Supply_Dec2013.pdf
Attachment C August 12, 2020
Information Sheet
C-6discharges of recycled water from the Facility will result in

===PLANNED CHANGES===

