FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System . The plant provides advanced -
secondary treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater from within the City
of America n Canyon , and serves a population of about 20,000 people and
several industrial dischargers , including a food processing facility, a winery, and
a beverage bottling company.
The Discharger owns and operates two separate collection systems, one for
domestic wastewater (85 to 90 percent of the influent) and one for industrial
wastewater (10 to 15 percent of the influent). These collection systems include
approximately 54 miles of gravity sewer, 4.9 miles of force main, and five pump
stations.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. Treatment consists of flow equalization and aeration ,
micro -screening and grit removal, biological secondary treatment, membrane
filtration, disinfection, and, for discharges at Discharge Point 001, post -
discharge aeration. The plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up to
2.5 MGD and a peak wet weather capacity of 5.0 MGD. From June 2017
through December 2021, the plant treated a n average daily flow of 1.5 MGD
and a maximum daily flow of 3.3 MGD. A ttachment C provides the plant flow
schematic.
The secondary treatment system consists of four parallel biological treatment
trains, each providing anoxic and aerobic biological treatment, and membrane
filtration. The four treatment trains can be used to s egregate domestic
wastewater (Main Aeration Basin) from industrial wastewater (North Aeration
Basin). The Discharger typically operate s the plant to combine domestic and
industrial wastewater before secondary treatment but may begin to segregate
domestic w astewater from industrial wastewater more frequently as recycled
water production increases . Treated wastewater discharges are disinfected by
ultraviolet light (UV). Recycled water is disinfected using chlorine (see § 2.1.4.) .
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Biosolids generated during the treatment
process are stored in two 5 -million -gallon earthen clay -lined sludge storage
basins, one of which is lined with an impermeable polyethylene liner . The
basins provide biosolids storage capacity sufficient for about 10 years. Biosolids
City of American Canyon Order R2 -2022-0019
American Canyon Water Reclamation Facility NPDES Permit CA0038768
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6from the sludge storage basins are dewatered with a screw press , then hauled
to a landfill .
2.1.4. Recycling . The plant produces recycled wastewater under the State Water
Board’s General Water Reuse Order (WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW ) year -round for
irrigation and non -potable indoor uses , such as toilet flushing. Domestic
wastewater is typically lower in total dissolved solids than the Facility’s industrial
wastewater, thus it is more suitable for recycling. The Discharger, Am erican
Canyon High School, and local vineyards use the recycled water for irrigation.
The plant’s recycling facilities include a separate chlorine contact basin used
only to disinfect recycled water, a one -million -gallon storage tank , and a
recently constr ucted 1.5 -million -gallon storage tank; the Discharger also has at
least ten miles of recycled water pipe lines.
2.1.5 Stormwater Management . The Discharger directs all onsite stormwater to the
plant headworks for treatment ; therefore , coverage under the State Water
Board’s General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Discharges Associated With
Industrial Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) is unnecessary .
2.2. Discharge Point s and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . The Discharger does not plan any significant changes to the
plant during the term of this Order.
3.