FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System . The plant provides secondary treatment
for wastewater from the City of Petaluma and adjacent areas. Its estimated
service area population is approximately 65,000 people. The wastewater is
primarily residential, although six industrial facilities discharge to the Facility.
 The City owns and operates approximately 193 miles of gravity sewer main,
4 miles of pressure sewer force mains, and 9 pump stations. The Discharger
provides wastewater treatment for the unincorporated community of Penngrove but does not provide sewer collection services in that area.
City of Petaluma Order R2- 2021 -0008
Ellis Creek Wate r Recycling Facility NPDES Permit CA00 37810
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5 2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment . The permitted average dry weather design treatment
capacity of the plant is 6.7 MGD. The treatment process consists of three bar
screens, grit removal, two activated sludge treatment units that use the
Siemens Orbal Process , and two secondary clarifiers. After secondary
clarification, some of the treated wastewater receives tertiary treatment by
flocculation, filtration, and ultraviolet light disinfection. The tertiary -treate d
wastewater is recycled offsite as described below in section 2.1.5. The
remaining wastewater receives additional biological treatment through a series
of oxidation ponds ( covering 146 acres) and constructed wetlands ( covering
16 acres). After the constru cted (treatment) wetlands, t reated waste water is
chlorinated and then flows to either polishing wetlands (covering 31 acres) or a
chlorine contact chamber. Treated w astewater from the chlorine contact
chamber and polishing wetlands is dechlorinated and dis charged to the
Petaluma River.
The Siemens Orbal Proces s, a circular multichannel activated sludge treatment
unit that provides nitrification and denitrification, has a treatment capacity of
16 MGD . During wet weather, when influent flows exceed 16 MGD, the
Discharger routes a portion of wastewater after grit removal directly to the oxidation ponds for treatment as described above. The capacity of the outfall
pipeline to Discharge Point 001 is approximately 14 MGD. The average daily
flow from Discharge Point 001 was 7.0 MGD from June 2016 to April 2020 during the wet season . The average dry weather flow through the F acility was
4.4 MGD from 2016 to 2019.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Sludge is thickened in a gravity belt
thickener , anaerobic ally digested, and dewatered before being transported
offsite for land application or use as alternat ive daily cover at a landfill.
2.1.4. Stormwater Management . The Discharger is not required to be cover ed under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities (NPDES General Permit No. CAS000001) because all stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the plant’s aerated lagoon
and oxidation ponds for secondary treatment.
2.1.5. Recycled Water . Recycled water is regulated by State Water Board Order
WQ 2019- 0037- EXEC. Over the last four years, the Discharger recycled about
700 million gallons of wastewater each year or about 30 percent of its
wastewater. The Discharger provided recycled wat er to over 1,000 acres of
pasture, vineyards, golf courses, schools, and other landscaped areas .
The Ellis Creek Water Recycling Facility produces filtered and disinfected
(“tertiary”) treated wastewater to meet unrestricted reuse requirements. The
Dischar ger’s existing tertiary treatment system can produce up to 5.2 MGD. To
meet increasing demand for landscape and agricultural irrigation, the Discharger plans to add a second set of tertiary filters and a third ultraviolet light
disinfection system to expand its tertiary capacity to 6.8 MGD . The Discharger
City of Petaluma Order R2- 2021 -0008
Ellis Creek Wate r Recycling Facility NPDES Permit CA00 37810
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6 also plans to continue expanding its recycled water distribution system to reach
additional parks and schools.
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes. The Discharger plans to relocate its shallow water discharge
from Discharge Point 001 to an existing emergency outfall, Discharge Point 002,
located in the tidal marsh on the southwest corner of the plant site. The Discharger
also plans to expand its tertiary filter capacity from 5.2 MGD to 6.8 MGD.
These changes are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they
pertain to ensuring Facility reliability.
3.