sedimentation tanks. Skimmings and waste activate d sludge (WAS) from the tanks
are directly discharged to the City of San Diego se wage collection system.
Secondary-treated effluent is sent to a filtration system, which consists of a rapid mix
chamber, two flocculation chambers, two down-flow g ravity filters, chemical addition
facilities, a filter backwash system, and a waste b ackwash system. Chlorination then
takes place in the chlorine rapid mix chamber and c hlorine contact chamber. Effluent
from the chlorine contact chamber flows by gravity to the effluent pump station and is
pumped to the recycled water storage reservoirs.
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 6 21. A summary of effluent quality data for recycled water produced at the RWCWRF and
SBWRP from January 2002 through December 2006 is as follows:
Table 2: RWCWRF and SBWRP Effluent Quality Summary
RWCWRF a SBWRP a,b
Constituent Units Minimum
Effluent
Value Maximum
Effluent
Value Minimum
Effluent
Value Maximum
Effluent
Value
Total Dissolved
Solids mg/L 670 950 894 929
Chloride mg/L 130 250 188 235
Percent sodium % 47.9 55 56.7 58.3
Sulfate mg/L 180 290 146 165
Iron mg/L 0.002 0.27 0.022 0.0836
Manganese mg/L 0.002 0.022 0.00619 0.0121
Methylene Blue
Active Substances mg/L 0.05 0.76 0.2 0.5
Boron mg/L 0.28 0.46 0.218 0.392
Fluoride mg/L 0.026 0.6 0.3 0.4
a Non-detect values are represented by the reported method detection limits.
b SBWRP values are from start-up date in July 2006 t hrough December 2006.

22. In accordance with Section 2200, Title 23 of th e California Code of Regulation, the
threat to water quality and complexity associated w ith the effluent from the OWD
RWCWRF is determined to be category 2B. The tertia ry effluent produced is not a
toxic waste and although there is a potential threa t to

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does n ot stay any condition of
this Order.
18. CHANGE IN DISCHARGE

The Recycled Water Agency shall file a new Report o f Waste Discharge at
least 180 days prior to the following:

a. Addition of a major industrial waste discharge t o a discharge of
essentially domestic sewage, or the addition of a n ew process or
product by an industrial facility resulting in a ch ange in the character of
the wastes.
b. Significant change in the treatment or disposal method (e.g., change in
the method of treatment which would significantly a lter the nature of
the waste).
c. Change in the disposal area from that described in the findings of this
Order.
d. Increase in flow beyond that specified in this O rder.
e. Other circumstances that result in a material ch ange in character,
amount, or location of the waste discharge.
f. Any planned change in the regulated facility or activity which may
result in noncompliance with this Order.
19. CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP

This Order is not transferable to any person except after notice to the
Executive Officer. The Recycled Water Agency shall submit this notice in
writing at least 30 days in advance of any proposed transfer. The notice must
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 27 include a written agreement between the existing an d new Recycled Water
Agency containing a specific date for the transfer of this Order's responsibility
and coverage between the current Recycled Water Age ncy and the new
Recycled Water Agency. This agreement shall includ e an acknowledgement
that the existing Recycled Water Agency is liable f or violations up to the
transfer date and that the new Recycled Water Agenc y is liable from the
transfer date on. The Regional Board may require m odification or revocation
and reissuance of this Order to change the name of the Recycled Water
Agency and incorporate such other requirements as m ay be necessary under
the California Water Code.
20. INCOMPLETE REPORTS

Where the Recycled Water Agency becomes aware that it failed to submit
any relevant facts in a Report of Waste Discharge o r submitted incorrect
information in a Report of Waste Discharge or in an y report to the Regional
Board, it shall promptly submit such facts or infor mation.
21. REPORT DECLARATION

All applications, reports, or information submitted to the Executive Officer
shall be signed and certified as follows:
a. The Report of Waste Discharge shall be signed as follows:
(1) For a corporation - by a principal Executive Of ficer of at least the
level of Vice-President.
(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship - by a general partner or the
proprietor, respectively.
(3) For a municipality, state, federal or other pub lic agency - by either a
principal Executive Officer or ranking elected offi cial.
b. All other reports required by this Order and oth er information required by
the Executive Officer shall be signed by a person d esignated in
paragraph (a) of this provision, or by a duly autho rized representative of
that person. An individual is a duly authorized re presentative only if all
of the following are true:
(1) The authorization is made in writing by a perso n described in
paragraph (a) of this provision,
(2) The authorization specifies either an individua l or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the reg ulated facility or
activity, and
(3) The written authorization is submitted to the E xecutive Officer.
c. Any person signing a document under this section shall make the
following certification:
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 28
"I certify under penalty of law that I have persona lly examined and am
familiar with the information submitted in this doc ument and all
attachments and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals
immediately responsible for obtaining the informati on, I believe that the
information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false informat ion, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment."
22. REGIONAL BOARD ADDRESS

The Recycled Water Agency shall submit reports requ ired under this Order or
other information required by the Executive Officer to the following address:
 California Regional Water Quality Control Board
 San Diego Region
 9174 Sky Park Court, Suite 100
 San Diego, California 92123
 Attn: Southern Core Regulatory Program

G. NOTIFICATIONS
1. VESTED RIGHTS

This Order does not convey any property rights of a ny sort or any exclusive
privileges. The requirements prescribed herein do not authorize the
commission of any act causing injury to persons or property, nor protect the
Recycled Water Agency from liability under federal, state or local laws, nor
create a vested right for the Recycled Water Agency to continue the waste
discharge.
2. U.S. EPA REVIEW

These requirements have not been officially reviewe d by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency and are not issued pursuant to Section 402
of the Clean Water Act.
3. SEVERABILITY

The provisions of this Order are severable, and if any provision of this Order,
or the application of any provision of this Order t o any circumstance, is held
invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances, and the
remainder of this Order, shall not be affected ther eby.


Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 30
ATTACHMENT NO.1
ORDER NO. R9-2007-0038
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR RECYCLED WATER USE PROJEC TS
Pursuant to California Water Code Section 13523.1(b )(3), this Order requires the Recycled Water Agency to
establish and to enforce rules and regulations gove rning the design, construction and use of recycled water
distribution and disposal systems by its customers. The rules and regulations shall be consistent wit h the
following criteria:
• Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, Wastewater Reclamation Criteria;
• Title 17, Division 1, Chapter 5, Group 4, Article 1 & 2, of the California Code of
Regulations;
• The State Department of Health Services (DHS) Preparation of an Engineering
Report for the Production, Distribution and Use of Recycled Water .
• Any measures that are deemed necessary for protect ion of public health, such as the
American Water Works Association (AWWA) California/ Nevada section, Guidelines
for the Distribution of Non-Potable Water and Guide lines for Retrofitting To Recycled
Water or alternate measures that are acceptable to the DH S.
At a minimum, the rules and regulations shall notif y the users that:
1. The use of recycled water shall not cause pollut ion, contamination, or nuisance,
as defined by Section 13050 of the California Water Code.
2. The Recycled Water Agency, the Regional Board, D HS, and DEH or an
authorized representative of these parties, upon pr esentation of proper
credentials, shall have the right to enter upon the recycled water use site during
reasonable hours, to verify that the user is comply ing with the Recycled Water
Agency's rules and regulations.
3. The recycled water user shall provide written no tification, in a timely manner, to
the Recycled Water Agency of any material change or proposed change in the
character of the use of recycled water.
4. Prior to the initiation of recycled water servic e, the recycled water user shall
submit plans and specifications for recycled water distribution facilities to the
Recycled Water Agency.
5. The recycled water user shall designate a recycl ed water supervisor who is
responsible for the recycled water system at each u se area under the user's
control. Specific responsibilities of the recycled water supervisor include the
proper installation, operation, and maintenance of the irrigation system;
compliance of the project with the Recycled Water A gency's rules and
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 31 regulations, prevention of potential hazards and pr eservation of the recycled
water distribution system plans in "as built" form. Designated recycled water
supervisors shall obtain instruction in the use of recycled water from an
institution approved by the DHS and DEH. Additiona l guidance regarding
recycled water supervisor responsibilities and inst ruction requirements is
provided in Attachments 17 and 18 of the Recycled Water Plan Check and
Inspection Manual developed by the DEH, and which are incorporated h erein by
reference.
6. The Recycled Water Agency may terminate service to a recycled water user
who uses, transports, or stores such water in viola tion of the Recycled Water
Agency's rules and regulations.
7. All recycled water storage facilities owned and/ or operated by recycled water
users shall be protected against erosion, overland runoff, and other impacts
resulting from a 100-year, 24-hour frequency storm unless the Regional Board
Executive Officer approves relaxed storm protection measures for the facility.
8. All recycled water storage facilities owned and/ or operated by recycled water
users shall be protected against 100-year frequency peak stream flows as
defined by the San Diego County flood control agenc y unless the Regional
Board Executive Officer approves relaxed storm prot ection measures for the
facility.
9. The Regional Board may initiate enforcement acti on against any recycled water
user, including but not limited to the termination of the reclaimed water supply,
who:
a. Discharges recycled water in violation of any ap plicable discharge
requirement prescribed by the Regional Board or in a manner which
creates or threatens to create conditions of pollut ion, contamination, or
nuisance, as defined in California Water Code Secti on 13050.
b. Uses, transports, or stores such water in violat ion of the rules and
regulations governing the design, construction and use of recycled water
distribution and disposal systems issued by the Rec ycled Water Agency in
accordance with this attachment; or in a manner whi ch creates or
threatens to create conditions of pollution, contam ination, or nuisance, as
defined in California Water Code Section 13050.
10. A copy of the recycled water rules and regulati ons, irrigation system layout map,
and a recycled water system operations manual shall be maintained at the use
area. These documents shall be available to operat ing personnel at all times.
11. Irrigation with disinfected tertiary recycled w ater shall not take place within 50
feet of any domestic water supply well unless all o f the following conditions have
been met:
a. A geological investigation demonstrates that an aquitard exists at the well
between the uppermost aquifer being drawn from and the ground surface.
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 32 b. The well contains an annular seal that extends f rom the surface into the
aquitard.
c. The well is housed to prevent any recycled water spray from coming into
contact with the wellhead facilities.
d. The ground surface immediately around the wellhe ad is contoured to allow
surface water to drain away from the well.
e. The owner of the well approves of the eliminatio n of the buffer zone
requirement.
12. Impoundment of disinfected tertiary recycled wa ter shall not occur within 100
feet of any domestic water supply well.
13. Irrigation with, or impoundment of, disinfected secondary-2.2 or disinfected
secondary-23 recycled water shall not take place wi thin 100 feet of any
domestic water supply well.
14. Irrigation with, or impoundment of, undisinfect ed secondary recycled water shall
not take place within 150 feet of any domestic wate r supply well.
15. Reclaimed water facilities shall be operated in accordance with best
management practices (BMPs) to prevent direct human consumption of
reclaimed water and to minimize misting, ponding, a nd runoff. BMPs shall be
implemented that will minimize both public contact and discharge onto areas not
under customer control.
16. All windblown spray and surface runoff of recla imed water applied for irrigation
onto property not owned or controlled by the Discha rger or reclaimed water user
shall be prevented by implementation of BMPs.
17. Irrigation with reclaimed water shall be during periods of minimal human use of
the service area. Consideration shall be given to allow an adequate dry-out
time before the irrigated area will be used by the public.
18. All drinking fountains located within the appro ved use area shall be protected by
location and/or structure from contact with recycle d water spray, mist, or runoff.
Protection shall be by design, construction practic e, or system operation.
19. Facilities that may be used by the public, incl uding but not limited to eating
surfaces and playground equipment and located withi n the approved use areas,
shall be protected to the maximum extent possible b y siting and/or structure
from contact by irrigation with recycled water spra y, mist, or runoff. Protection
shall be by design, construction practice or system operation.
20. Spray irrigation with recycled water, other tha n disinfected tertiary recycled
water, shall not take place within 100 feet of the property line of a residence or a
place where public exposure could be similar to tha t of a park, playground, or
school yard.
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Master Reclamation Permit


 33 21. All use areas where recycled water is used and that are accessible to the public
shall be posted with conspicuous signs, in a size n o less than 4 inches by 8
inches, that include the following wording and pict ure in a size no less than 4
inches high by 8 inches wide: "RECYCLED WATER - DO NOT DRINK". See
Attachment No. 2 for the acceptable symbol. The si gn(s) shall be of a size
easily readable by the public. The prescribed word ing should also be translated
into Spanish and other appropriate languages and in cluded in the required
signs.
22. No physical connection shall be made or allowed to exist between any recycled
water system and any separate system conveying pota ble water.
23. The recycled water piping system shall not incl ude any hose bibs. Quick
couplers that are different from that used on the p otable water system may be
used.
24. The public water supply shall not be used as a backup or supplemental source
of water for a recycled water system unless the con nection between the two
systems is protected by an air gap separation which complies with the
requirements of Sections 7602(a) and 7603(a) of Tit le 17 and the approval of
the public water system has been obtained. If a "S wivel-ell" type connection is
used it must be used in accordance with the provisi ons of the Department of
Health Services Policy Memo 95-004. Approved backfl ow prevention devices
shall be provided, installed, tested, and maintaine d by the recycled water user in
accordance with the applicable provisions of Title 17, Division 1, Chapter 5,
Group 4, Article 2.
25. No person other than the Recycled Water Agency shall deliver recycled water to
a facility. Connection to the irrigation system by an individual residence is
prohibited.
26. All recycled water piping and appurtenances in new installations and
appurtenances in retrofit installations shall be co lored purple or distinctively
wrapped with purple tape in accordance with Chapter 7.9, Section 4049.54 of
the California Health and Safety Code.
27. Customer complaints concerning recycled water u se that may involve public
illness shall be reported to the DEH and the DHS, a nd to the Recycled Water
Agency who shall maintain a log of all customer com plaints regarding recycled
water.
28. Any backflow prevention device installed to pro tect the public water system shall
be inspected and maintained in accordance with Sect ion 7605 of Title 17.
29. The amount of nitrogen from commercial fertiliz ers applied to irrigation use sites
shall be managed to take into account the nitrogen content of the recycled water
in order to ensure sufficient nitrogen uptake by th e vegetation and prevent
leaching of excess nitrates and nitrogen compounds into the soil beyond the
root zone.

 34

ATTACHMENT NO. 2

TO
ORDER NO. R9-2007-0038







 35
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
SAN DIEGO REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R9-2007-0038
FOR
OTAY WATER DISTRICT
RALPH W. CHAPMAN WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
SAN DIEGO COUNTY

A. MONITORING PROVISIONS
1. Samples and measurements taken as required herei n shall be representative
of the volume and nature of the monitored discharge . All samples shall be
taken at the monitoring points specified in this Mo nitoring and Reporting
Program (MRP) and, unless otherwise specified, befo re the effluent joins or
is diluted by any other waste stream, body of water or substance. Monitoring
points shall not be changed without notification to and the approval of the
Executive Officer.
2. Appropriate flow measurement devices and methods consistent with
accepted scientific practices shall be selected and used to ensure the
accuracy and reliability of measurements of the vol ume of monitored
discharges. The devices shall be installed, calibr ated and maintained to
ensure that the accuracy of the measurements are co nsistent with the
accepted capability of that type of device. Device s selected shall be capable
of measuring flows with a maximum deviation of less than +10 percent from
true discharge rates throughout the range of expect ed discharge volumes.
3. Monitoring must be conducted according to United States Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA) test procedures approved under Title 40, Code
of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 136, "Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants Under the Cle an Water Act" as
amended, unless other test procedures have been spe cified in this MRP.
4. All analyses shall be performed in a laboratory certified to perform such
analyses by the California Department of Health Ser vices or a laboratory
approved by the Executive Officer.
5. Monitoring results must be reported on discharge monitoring report forms
approved by the Executive Officer.
6. If the Otay Water District (hereinafter OWD or D ischarger) monitors any
pollutants more frequently than required by this MR P, using test procedures
approved under 40 CFR, Part 136, or as specified in this MRP, the results of
this monitoring shall be included in the calculatio n and reporting of the data
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 36 submitted in the Discharger's monitoring report. T he increased frequency of
monitoring shall also be reported.
7. The Discharger shall retain records of all monit oring information, including all
calibration and maintenance records and all origina l strip chart recordings for
continuous monitoring instrumentation and copies of all reports required by
this MRP, and records of all data used to complete the application for this
MRP. Records shall be maintained for a minimum of five years from the date
of the sample, measurement, report or application. This period may be
extended during the course of any unresolved litiga tion regarding this
discharge or when requested by the Regional Board E xecutive Officer.
8. Records of monitoring information shall include the following:
a. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or m easurements,
b. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements,
c. The date(s) analyses were performed,
d. The individual(s) who performed the analyses,
e. The analytical techniques or method used, and
f. The results of such analyses.
9. All monitoring instruments and devices that are used by the Discharger to
fulfill the prescribed monitoring program shall be properly maintained and
calibrated as necessary to ensure their continued a ccuracy.
10. Monitoring or sampling shall be conducted at ti me intervals that are
approximately equal to the prescribed monitoring or sampling frequency
(e.g., sampling conducted approximately three month s apart for a quarterly
sampling frequency).
11. The Discharger shall identify all missing or no n-valid monitoring or sampling
results in monitoring reports submitted. All insta nces of missing or non-valid
results must be accompanied by an explanation of th eir root cause and the
steps the Discharger has or will take to prevent fu ture instances. Missing or
non-valid results may be considered violations of O rder No. R9-2007-0038
that could result in enforcement action depending o n the frequency of such
instances and efforts by the Discharger to prevent such failures.
12. The Discharger shall report all instances of no ncompliance not reported
under Provision F.6 of Order No. R9-2007-0038 at th e time monitoring
reports are submitted. The reports shall contain t he information described in
Provision F.6.
13. The monitoring reports shall be signed by an au thorized person as required
by Provision F.21.
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 37 14. A composite sample is defined as a combination of at least eight sample
aliquots of at least 100 milliliters, collected at periodic intervals during the
operating hours of a facility over a 24-hour period . For volatile pollutants,
aliquot must be combined in the laboratory immediat ely before analysis. The
composite must be flow proportional; either the tim e interval between each
aliquot or the volume of each aliquot must be propo rtional to either the
stream flow at the time of sampling or the total st ream flow since the
collection of the previous aliquot. Aliquot may be collected manually or
automatically.
15. A grab sample is an individual sample of at lea st 100 milliliters collected at a
randomly selected time over a period not exceeding 15 minutes.
16. Sampling and analysis shall, at a minimum, be c onducted in accordance with
Article 6 of California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3
(Reclamation Criteria).
17. Any known direct cross-connection between recyc led and potable water shall
be reported to the Regional Board, DHS, and DEH wit hin 24 hours.

B. INFLUENT MONITORING
The Discharger shall calculate the flow rate of raw wastewater influent to the
RWCWRF based on continuously flow measurement at ot her locations in the
RWCWRF. Cumulative 24-hour flow rates representing each calendar day in
units of million gallons per day shall be reported monthly. The mass balance
calculations used to determine the influent flow ra te must be provided.
C. EFFLUENT MONITORING
1. Samples of the effluent discharged from the RWCW RF shall be collected at
a point downstream of the disinfection process, but prior to any dilution.

2. The Discharger shall determine the combined volu me of recycled water used
at all use sites each calendar month in units of mi llion gallons and report this
volume monthly.

3. The Discharger is responsible for monitoring and reporting in accordance
with the following criteria:

Table 9: Effluent Monitoring Requirements
Constituent i/
Parameter Units Type Of
Sample Sampling
Frequency a,b Reporting
Frequency
Turbidity c, h NTU Continuous Continuous Monthly
Chlorine Contact Time (CT) d, e mg-min/L Calculated Continuous Monthly
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 38 Constituent i/
Parameter Units Type Of
Sample Sampling
Frequency a,b Reporting
Frequency
Total Chlorine Residual d, f mg/L Continuous Continuous Monthly
Total Coliform g MPN/100ml Grab Daily Monthly
Biochemical Oxygen Demand
(BOD 5 @ 20 °C)
mg/L
Composite
Weekly
Monthly
Total Suspended Solids mg/L Composite Weekly Monthl y
Volatile Suspended Solids mg/L Composite Weekly Mon thly
pH Unit Grab Weekly Monthly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Composite Monthly Month ly
Total Nitrogen (as N) mg/L Composite Monthly Monthl y
Chloride mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Methylene Blue Active
Substances mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Sulfate mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Percent Sodium % Composite Monthly Monthly
Iron mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Manganese mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Boron mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Fluoride mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Electroconductivity dS/m Composite Monthly Monthly
Aluminum mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Arsenic mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Antimony mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Barium mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Beryllium mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Cadmium mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Chromium mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Copper mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Cyanide mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 39 Constituent i/
Parameter Units Type Of
Sample Sampling
Frequency a,b Reporting
Frequency
Lead mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Mercury mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Nickel mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Nitrate (as NO 3-) mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Nitrite (as N) mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Selenium mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Silver mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Thallium mg/L Composite Annually Annually
Asbestos Million fibers
per liter Composite Annually Annually
Benzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Carbon Tetrachloride mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,2-Dichlorobenzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,4-Dichlorobenzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,1-Dichloroethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,2-Dichloroethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,1-Dichloroethylne mg/L Grab Annually Annually
cis-1,2-Dichloroethylene mg/L Grab Annually Annuall y
trans-1,2-Dichloroethylene mg/L Grab Annually Annua lly
Dichloromethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,2-Dichloropropane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,3-Dichloropropene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Ethylbenzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Monochlorobenzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Styrene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane mg/L Grab Annually Annual ly
Tetrachloroethylene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 40 Constituent i/
Parameter Units Type Of
Sample Sampling
Frequency a,b Reporting
Frequency
Toluene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,1,1-Trichloroethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,1,2-Trichloroethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Trichloroethylene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Trichlorofluoromethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,1,2-Trichloro-1,2,2-
trifluoroethane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Vinyl Chloride mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Xylenes mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Alachlor mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Atrazine mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Bentazon mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Benzo(a)pyrene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Carbofuran mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Chlordane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
2,4-D mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Dalapon mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1,2-Dibromon-3-chloropropane mg/L Grab Annually Ann ually
Di (2-ethylhexyl)adipate mg/L Grab Annually Annuall y
Di (2-ethylhexl)phthalate mg/L Grab Annually Annual ly
Dinoseb mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Diquat mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Endothall mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Endrin mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Ethylene Dibromide mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Glyphosate mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 41 Constituent i/
Parameter Units Type Of
Sample Sampling
Frequency a,b Reporting
Frequency
Heptachlor mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Heptachlor Epoxide mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Hexachlorobenzene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene mg/L Grab Annually Annual ly
Lindane mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Methoxychlor mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Molinate mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Oxamyl mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Pentachlorophenol mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Picloram mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Polychlorinated Biphenyls mg/L Grab Annually Annual ly
Simazine mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Thiobencarb mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Toxaphene mg/L Grab Annually Annually
2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin) mg/L Grab Annually Annually
2,3,5-TP Silvex mg/L Grab Annually Annually
a Weekly is defined as a calendar week (Sunday throug h Saturday). Monthly is defined as a calendar mont h.
Quarterly is defined as a period of three consecuti ve calendar months beginning on January 1, April 1, July 1, or
October 1. Semiannually is defined as a period of six consecutive calendar months beginning on Januar y 1 or July
1. Annually is defined as a calendar year.

b The Discharger shall increase the sampling frequen cy from monthly to weekly, from quarterly to monthl y, from
semiannually to quarterly, and from annually to sem iannually for any noted constituent that exceeds th e limit
specified by Discharge Specification B.2-B.9 of Ord er No. R9-2007-0038. The increased frequency of monitorin g
shall continue until the Discharger achieves compli ance with the limitations for three consecutive per iods.

c Should the continuous turbidity meter and recorder fail, grab sampling at a minimum frequency of 1.2 hours may be
substituted for a period of up to 24 hours.

d Required if chlorine disinfection process is used. Disinfection using UV irradiation will require ad ditional monitoring
requirements not currently specified in Order No. R 9-2007-0038.

e Calculated CT (chlorine concentration multiplied b y modal contact time) values shall be determined an d recorded
continuously. The daily minimum CT value shall be r eported monthly. The Discharger shall report month ly the
date(s), value(s), time, and duration when the CT v alue falls below 450 mg-min/L, and/or the modal con tact time
falls below 90 minutes.

Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 42 f Chlorine concentrations shall be recorded by a cont inuous recording meter at a location in the pipelin e where the
effluent has experienced 90 minutes or more of moda l contact time at maximum flow. Minimum daily chlo rine
residual shall be reported monthly.

g Samples for total coliform bacteria shall be colle cted at least daily and at a time when wastewater c haracteristics
are most demanding on the treatment facilities and disinfection procedures. Results of daily total co liform bacteria
monitoring, running 7-day median determination, and maximum daily coliform reading in each of previous 12
months shall be reported monthly.

h Effluent turbidity analyses shall be conducted con tinuously using a continuous monitoring and recordi ng turbidity
meter. Compliance with the daily average operating filter effluent turbidity limit of 2 NTU shall be determined by
averaging the recorded turbidity levels at a minimu m of four-hour intervals over a 24-hour period. Co mpliance with
the turbidity standard of not exceeding 5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time over a 24-hour period sh all be
determined using the levels of recorded turbidity t aken at intervals of no more than 1.2 hours over a 24-hour
period. Should the continuous turbidity meter and/ or recorder fail, grab sampling at a minimum freque ncy of one
sample every 1.2 hours may be substituted until the turbidity meter and/or recorder is fixed. The Dis charger shall
report monthly results of four-hour turbidity readi ngs, average effluent turbidity (24-hours), 95 perc entile effluent
turbidity (24-hours), and the daily maximum turbidi ty (daily being defined as the 24-hour period from 12 am to 12
am). Continuous turbidity monitoring must also be provided prior to filtration to ensure adequate pro cess control,
and automatic actuated coagulant feed when the turb idity of the secondary treated effluent is greater than 10 NTU.

i For all constituents in Table 9 that are also cont ained in Tables 3-4 and 3-6 of the Basin Plan, annu al analytical
results must initially be submitted. MDLs must be below associated MCLs. For constituents with conce ntrations at
or below MCLs, annual sampling and analysis must co ntinue for three consecutive years and once during every
subsequent five-year period. For constituents with concentrations above MCLs, sampling and analysis f requency
must be increased to semi-annually. A reasonable p otential analysis will be performed using this data and data
from the SBWRP to determine if the blended recycled water is in compliance with water quality objectiv es for areas
with existing or potential domestic/municipal water supply beneficial uses (see Chapter 3 of Basin Pla n).

4. The Discharger shall review the monitoring resul ts for compliance with Order
No. R9-2007-0038 and submit a statement of complian ce as part of the
Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R9-2007-0038. The statement of
compliance shall identify and report all effluent l imitation violations of
Discharge Specifications B.1 through B.9 of Order N o. R9-2007-0038.

D. FILTRATION PROCESS MONITORING
 If coagulation is not used as part of the treatmen t process, the turbidity of the
filter influent and effluent shall be continuously measured. If effluent turbidity
exceeds 2 NTU based on a 24-hour average, or if the influent turbidity exceeds 5
NTU for more than 15 minutes or 10 NTU at any time, then the Discharger shall
submit a written report of the incident as part of the monthly monitoring report to
the Regional Board. The report shall describe the measures taken to
automatically activate chemical addition or to dive rt wastewater.
E. SEWAGE SOLIDS AND BIOSOLIDS
 A record of the type, quantity, and manner of disp osal and/or reuse of all solids
removed in the course of sewage treatment shall be maintained at the RWCWRF
and be made available to Regional Board staff upon request.

 A biosolids certification, certifying that the use and disposal of biosolids complies
with existing Federal and State laws and regulation s, including permitting
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 43 requirements and technical standards included in 40 CFR 503 shall be submitted
annually.
F. POTABLE SUPPLY WATER MONITORING
 Monitoring and reporting of the potable water supp lied to the service area of
RWCWRF shall be conducted in accordance with the fo llowing criteria:
Table 10: Potable Water Monitoring Requirements
Constituent Unit Type Of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly/An nually
Chloride mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly/Annually
Sulfate mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly/Annually

G. RECYCLED WATER USERS SUMMARY REPORT
1. The Discharger shall submit a quarterly recycled water users summary report
containing the following information:
a. Total volume of recycled water supplied to all r ecycled water users for each
month of the reporting period,
b. Total number of recycled water use sites,
c. Address of the recycled water use sites and
d. Basin Plan name and number of hydrologic subarea underlying the recycled
water use site.

2. The Discharger shall submit an annual recycled w ater report with containing
the following information:
a. Recycled Water Agency Information (submitted as hard copy and CD with
Excel file)
(1) Water recycling facility name
(2) Water recycling facility owner
(3) Water recycling agency name
(4) Type of water recycling permit
(5) Name of the ocean outfall available for dischar ge of treated water or
unused recycled water
(6) Recycled water distributors
(7) The following undisinfected secondary, disinfec ted secondary - 2.2,
disinfected secondary – 23, disinfected tertiary, a nd total recycled water
Order No. R9-2007-0038 Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram


 44 volumes in acre-feet:
• Storage capacity available
• Volume supplied to recycled water distributors
• Volume supplied directly to users
• Volume used for groundwater recharge
• Volume discharged to land
• Volume discharged to ocean outfall

b. Recycled Water Users Information (submitted as h ard copy and CD with
Excel file)
(1) Name of the recycled water use site or the type of use
(2) Hydrologic unit and subarea of user
(3) Volume delivered to each user
(4) Total volume delivered to all users
(5) Owner
(6) Address
(7) Site supervisor
(8) Site supervisor phone number
(9) Type of use
(10) Number of inspections conducted
(11) Number of violations
(12) Number of meters

c. Recycled Water User Violations of the Recycled W ater Agency's Rules
and Regulations
The Discharger shall identify all recycled water us ers known to be in
violation of the Recycled Water Agency's rules and regulations for
recycled water users . The report shall include a description of the
noncompliance and its cause, including the period o f noncompliance, and
if the noncompliance has not been corrected; the an ticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate,
and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.


1 CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
SAN DIEGO REGION


FACT SHEET

TENTATIVE ORDER NO. R9-2007-0038

MASTER RECLAMATION PERMIT
FOR OTAY WATER DISTRICT
RALPH W. CHAPMAN WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY

The bases for requirements contained in tentative O rder No. R9-2007-0038 have been
provided in the Findings or within the Order itself . The purpose of this Fact Sheet is to
provide additional background information and techn ical details regarding the
development of some of these requirements.

BACKGROUND

Otay Water District (OWD) owns and operates the Ral ph W. Chapman Water
Reclamation Facility (RWCWRF). Raw sewage is pumpe d to the RWCWRF from the
Rancho San Diego Pump Station and/or the Steele Can yon Pump Station. The raw
sewage enters the plant and passes through a rotary screen station, a comminutor
station, and a grit chamber. Secondary treatment t akes place in an activated sludge
basin with three fine bubble aeration passes follow ed by secondary sedimentation in
three rectangular sedimentation tanks. Skimmings a nd waste activated sludge (WAS)
from the tanks are directly discharged to the City of San Diego sewage collection
system. Secondary-treated effluent is sent to a fi ltration system, which consists of a
rapid mix chamber, two flocculation chambers, two d own-flow gravity filters, chemical
addition facilities, a filter backwash system, and a waste backwash system.
Chlorination then takes place in the chlorine rapid mix chamber and chlorine contact
chamber. Effluent from the chlorine contact chambe r flows by gravity to the effluent
pump station and is pumped to the recycled water st orage reservoirs.
Disinfected tertiary effluent from the RWCWRF is bl ended with recycled water from the
South Bay Water Reclamation Plant (regulated under Order No. 2000-203) and/or
potable water, then distributed to recycled water u sers located within the Hydrologic
Areas/Subareas (HAs/HSAs) of Telegraph (HSA 909.11) , La Nacion (HSA 909.12),
Otay Valley (HA 910.20), Tijuana Valley (HA 911.10) , and Water Tanks (HSA 911.12).

Order No. R9-2007-0038 updates the findings and req uirements of Order No. 92-25 for
regulating the discharge of treated effluent from t he RWCWRF to recycled water use
sites in order to conform with the current regulati ons pertaining to water recycling and
waste discharge.

Fact Sheet Tentative Order No. R9-2007-0038


 2 BASIS FOR DISCHARGE SPECIFICATIONS

Discharge specifications based on groundwater water quality objectives

Table 3-3 of the Water Quality Control Plan for the San Diego (Basin Plan) contains
numerical groundwater water quality objectives. Th e numerical objectives in Table 3-3,
expressed as values not to be exceeded more than 10 percent of the time, are
interpreted to mean that 90 percent of daily measur ements are expected to be below
the numerical objective. Hence, this numerical obj ective represents the 90th percentile.
 In order to translate the numerical objectives int o 12-month average and daily
maximum discharge specifications, a statistical mod el was employed that is applicable
to data sets that follow a lognormal distribution c urve and can be uniquely characterized
by a long-term average (LTA) and a coefficient of v ariation (CV, defined as the ratio of
the standard deviation and the mean of the data set ). The statistical model dictates
that in order for effluent from the RWCWRF to compl y with the numerical objective,
effluent concentration data must follow a lognormal distribution curve that includes the
90th percentile equivalent to the numerical objecti ve (see Figure 1).


Figure 1: Generalized Lognormally Distributed Data

Actual data from the period June 1999 to May 2004 f or treated effluent from the
RWCWRF were statistically analyzed using the softwa re Minitab to determine if the
effluent data approximated a lognormal distribution . An Excel spreadsheet was used to
determine the CV of the data set for effluent const ituents based on historical effluent
data. No historical effluent data existed for two constituents, nitrogen and color, and
therefore, lognormal distribution was assumed and a n EPA-recommended CV value of
0.6 was used for nitrogen and color. Using the CV values and the numerical objective
representing the 90 th percentile, the desired LTA was calculated using t he following
statistical equation:
Fact Sheet Tentative Order No. R9-2007-0038


 3
 
− = σ σth z Exp ENO LTA 90 2
21*

where /uniF020/uniF020σ2 = ln [CV 2 +1], z 90th = 90 th percentile probability score. Since water quality
objectives vary for each HA/HSA, effluent numerical objective (ENO) values used to
calculate the LTA are equivalent to the most conser vative water quality objectives for
OWD’s service area (see Table 5 of Order).

The effluent maximum daily limitation (MDL), taken as the 99 th percentile, was
calculated using the following statistical equation :

 
+ − = σ σth z Exp LTA MDL 99 2
21*
where σ 2 = ln [CV 2 +1] and z 99th = 99 th percentile probability score.

The effluent 12-month average limitation (12MAL), b ased on the 95 th percentile for the
average of 12 monthly measurements, was calculated using the following statistical
equation:

 
+ − =n th nz Exp LTA MAL σ σ95 2
21* 12
where 
+ =σ 1#2
2
samples CV ln n and z 95th = 95 th percentile probability score.

Although water quality objectives for turbidity hav e been developed for the proposed
use sites, the turbidity requirements incorporated in the order are based on

The effluent discharge specification for total nitr ogen is based on the groundwater
numerical objective for nitrate (45 mg/L as NO 3- or 10.2 mg/L as N) with considerations
for the transformation of nitrogen species. Nitrog en in treated effluent may be in nitrate
form or in other forms that eventually convert to n itrate. Once in nitrate form, some
nitrogen is lost through denitrification in the uns aturated soil zone (vadose zone), but
the majority remains as nitrate which may eventuall y reach groundwater. A typical
denitrification rate of 30% has been applied in der iving the total nitrogen effluent
discharge specification which is equivalent to stat ing that 70% of nitrates are expected
to reach groundwater. Consequently, as an example, the ENO for total nitrogen is 10.2
mg/L divided by the factor 0.7 which equals 14.5 mg /L. The amount of nitrate that
reaches groundwater may be further reduced by veget ation uptake of nitrogen if
followed by removal or harvesting of the vegetation ; however, the total nitrogen
discharge specification was derived with the assump tion that vegetation is not removed
from recycled water use sites.

Fact Sheet Tentative Order No. R9-2007-0038


 4 Chapter 3 of the Basin Plan specifies that waters d esignated for use as domestic or
municipal supply shall not contain concentrations o f organic/inorganic chemicals in
excess of the MCLs. These chemicals and their corr esponding MCLs are tabulated in
Tables 3-4 and 3-5 of the Basin Plan. HSAs 909.11 (Telegraph), 909.12 (La Nacion),
and 911.12 (Water Tanks), which are within the OWD service area, contain
groundwater with the existing or potential benefici al use of Municipal and Domestic
Supply (MUN). OWD was not required to collect anal ytical data for the constituents in
Tables 3-4 and 3-5 of the Basin Plan and therefore, their concentrations in effluent from
the RWCWRF are unknown. To determine if there is r easonable potential for these
constituents to exceed MCLs in the effluent, a moni toring schedule has been included
in Section C.3 of the Monitoring and Reporting Prog ram for Order No. R9-2007-0038.
Based on analytical data, a reasonable potential st atistical analysis will be performed,
which may support effluent limitations based on MCL s.

Discharge Specifications based on Title 22 Water Re cycling Criteria

California Code of Regulations Title 22 Sections 60 304 through 60307 stipulate the
disinfection and turbidity levels to be achieved in recycled water depending on the
intended use of the recycled water. While OWD is n ot restricted by Order No. R9-2007-
0038 as to the intended use of the recycled water t hat it distributes, OWD currently
supplies recycled water to recycled water use sites subject to the provisions of Section
60304. Recycled water for purposes subject to Sect ion 60304 must be a disinfected
tertiary recycled water, as defined by Title 22 Sec tion 60301.230, which are the most
stringent Title 22 standards. The discharge specif ications for coliform, turbidity, and CT
(the product of chlorine residual and modal contact time) contained in Order No. R9-
2007-0038 are based on disinfected tertiary recycle d water Title 22 requirements.

BASIS FOR MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Effluent Monitoring

Effluent monitoring is required for all constituent s for which discharge specification limits
have been established. In addition, effluent monit oring is required for many of the
inorganic and organic chemicals with MCLs that do n ot currently have discharge
specification limits.

Potable Supply Water Monitoring

Potable supply water monitoring is required in orde r to define discharge specification
limits in Section B.3 for those constituents with d ischarge specification limits based on
an incremental increase from domestic water use abo ve supply concentrations.


Fact Sheet Tentative Order No. R9-2007-0038


 5 LIST OF REFERENCE DOCUMENTS

The following documents provide the necessary refer ences for the bases of Order No.
R9-2007-0038:

A. San Diego RWQCB Order Nos. 78-55, 87-99, 91-09, and 92-25 (and addenda) for
the Otay Water District.
B. Report of Waste Discharge, titled Otay Water Dis trict Ralph W. Chapman Water
Reclamation Facility Engineering Report on the Prod uction, Distribution and Use of
Recycled Water, dated January 2007.
C. The Water Quality Control Plan for the San Diego Basin (9), September 8, 1994.
D. California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Divisi on 4, Chapter 3 Water Recycling
Criteria
E. U.S. EPA NPDES Permit Writers’ Course Workbook, August 2006.
F. U.S. EPA NPDES Permit Writers’ Manual, December 1996, EPA-833-B-96-003.