2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The Fairfield -Suisun Wastewater Treatment Plant
is located at 1010 Chadbourne Road in Fairfield, Solano County, and provides
advanced -secondary treatment of wastewater from domestic, commercial, and
industrial sources from the City of Fairfield, City of Suisun City, and Travis Air
Force Base. The Facility serves a population of approximately 14 9,000.
Attachment B provides maps of the area around the plant .
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer System . The Fairfield -Suisun Sewer District sanitary sewer
system consists of approximately 71 miles of gravity sewer mains (12 inches in
diameter or greater), 15 miles of pressure sewer mains, and 1 4 pump stations.
The plant also treats wastewater from three satellite sanitary sewer systems,
consisting of sewer lines less than 12 inches in diameter, owned and
maintained by the City of Fairfield, City of Suisun City, and Travis Air Force
Base.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The plant provides treatment consisting of preliminary
influent screening and grit removal, primary clarification, option al oxidation
towers (roughing filters ) and optional intermediate clarification, biological
activated sludge, secondary clarification, temporary activated sludge effluent
storage in flow balancing reservoirs (total volume 12.7 million gallons [MG]),
advanced secondary dual -media filtration, and ultraviolet l ight (UV) disinfection.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the plant.
Influent wastewater is pumped to the plant headworks from four pump stations,
each with a magnetic flow meter. The combined inflow is measured by Parshall
flumes downstream of influent screening. Plant influent contains a small
contribution from plant rec ycled water.
Fairfield -Suisun Sewer District Order R2 -2025-0028
Fairfield -Suisun Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA003 8024
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6The current treatment configuration routes all flow around the oxidation towers
and intermediate clar ifiers. The oxidation towers and intermediate clarifiers may
be put back into service depending on influent characteristics to optimize the
performance of the activated sludge process.
To accommodate wet weather flows, t he plant also has a 111 -MG equalization
storage basin with optional comminution. The plant is designed to provide
containment and advanced secondary treatment of wastewater flows up to the
20-year storm event. The plant is designed to route secondary treated effluent
around the advanced secondary dual media filters located prior to disinfection
when the liquid level in the filter inlet structure exceeds 8.6 feet.
Disinfected effluent is conveyed from the UV disinfection facility to Discharge
Point 001 (and Discharge Points 005 and 006, when needed) or to one of three
earthen final effluent holding ponds with a total volume of 20.4 MG. The plant
may discharge a ble nd of stored water from the reservoirs and treated
wastewater from the UV disinfection facility.
The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 23.7 MGD and a peak wet
weather capacity of 45 MGD. From May 2020 through August 2024, the plant
treated a daily dry weather average of 12.8 MGD, with the highest reported
average wet weather flow being 39.9 MGD.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary
clarification operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process
consists of gravity belt thickeners for waste activated sludge thickening,
mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and screw presses for dewatering. The
digested and dewatered biosolids are further treat ed and s old as a biofertilizer
product.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . Stormwater originating on the plant’s grounds is
directed offsite and permitted under the statewide Industrial Storm Water Permit
(NPDES General Permit CAS000001).
2.1.6. Recycled Water . The Discharger recycles approximately 5 to 10 percent of the
plant’s treated effluent for agricultural and landscape irrigation. Water recycling
is permitted under State Water Board Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW .
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes . During this Order term, t he Discharger plans to upgrade its
treatment plant to improve nitrogen removal . Specifically, the Discharger plans to
construct anoxic zones , replace air diffuser systems , and potentially install an
internal mixed -liquor return pumping system in its aeration basins to increase
denitrification .
The Discharger also plans to increase recycled water distribution to nearby
agricultural operations , which may result in the incidental discharge of some
tailwater t hough a tidal gate at Boynton Slough , creating a new discharge at
Discharge Point 006 . The Discharger may also use Discharge Point 006 as an
Fairfield -Suisun Sewer District Order R2 -2025-0028
Fairfield -Suisun Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA003 8024
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-9alternate discharge point when maintenance is being conducted on the main
outfall line.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board
authorization. The Di scharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes.
2.6. Sea Level Rise. The Discharger has evaluated the San Francisco Bay
Conservation and Development Commission’s Adapting to Rising Tides mapping
under worst -case scenario 2100 sea level rise projections and determined that
critical Facility processes are unlikely to be directly affected. However, a portion of
the sanitary sewer system may be at risk. The Discharger is the co -lead agency
with Solano County for the Solano Bayshore Resiliency Project, collaborating with
the cities of Fairfield, Suisun City, Benicia, and Vallejo to evaluate and address the
impacts of sea level rise. Contributions include p roviding project management,
technical expertise, and data to support vulnerability assessments and adaptation
planning with a focus on protecti ng critical infrastructure and maintaining water
quality.
3.