FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWT F)
and associated wastewater collection and disposal facilities that serve a population
of 3,900 residential users in the Community of Rio Dell. The Facility discharges
secondary treated waste water from Discharge Point 001 to the Lower Eel River, just
downstream of Highway 101 Bridge. The Facility also discharges disinfected
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5secondary -23 recycled water to an irrigation site located northwest of the Facility and
west of the southbound Highway 101 Bridge, via Discharge Point 003.
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Faci lity is located in the Ferndale Hydrologic Subarea of the Lower Eel River
Hydrologic Area. The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of
0.40 mgd, an average monthly wet -weather flow of 1.25 mgd, and a peak wet
weather flow of 2.51 mgd.
2.1.1. Collection System
The collection system includes two lift stations with dual pump systems and
generators at each. The lift stations convey the wastewater to the headworks
building via a North and South mainline.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The raw sewage flows through a quarter inch opening automatic bar screen and
grit removal system then discharges into the influent pump station wet well. A
manual bar screen is also available as a backup.
The treatment system consists of headworks , Aero -Mod secondary treatment
and soli ds stabilization system, chlorine disinfection in two chlorine contact
tanks, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected secondary recycled water. May 15 through
September 30, the recycled water is used to irrigate hay grass and alfalfa at the
Irrigation Site. The hay grass and alfalfa are harvested as fodder for beef cattle.
The use of the Irrigation Site commenced in 2014. The irrigation site was
previously regulated as discharge to land under NPDES permit No. R1-2017 -
0007. In April 2022 discharge to Discharge Point 003 was reclassified as
recycled water when the Division of Drinking Water approved the Rio Dell Title
22 Engineering Report. Operations at the Irrigation Site will not undergo
substantial change due to reclassification.
2.1.4. Biosolids
Solids removed from the wastewater are stored and thickened in two aerated
digesters and subsequently dewatered with a belt filter press. The dewatered
biosolids are further process ed through an indirec t sludge dryer, which
produces Class A biosolids that the Permittee gives away to a local farmer for
use as a soil amendment.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-62.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
2.5.1. The Permittee is evaluating chloramine disinfection as an alternative to chlorine
disinfection to address disinfection byproduct formation in the treated effluent.
Initial bench testing was favo rable in terms of achieving compliance with
effluent limitations for disinfection byproducts, bacteria , and ammonia. The City
is now planning to complete a full -scale chloramine test to evaluate disinfection
system effectiveness and ammonia concentrations under simulated discharge
conditions. The full -scale test will be conducted during 202 3 when treated
effluent is applied at the Irrigation Site. The Permittee will install ammonia
testing equipment, utilize chloramine at predicted dosages, and evaluate
impacts to effluent quality. Upon completion t he Permittee will report the results
of the full -scale study to the Regional Water Board for approval by the
Executive Officer, install permanent equipment , and incorporate any
operational changes necessary to achieve compliance with effluent limitations
for disinfection byproducts.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-123.