Facility Information …………………………………………………………………………. 3
Table 5. Discharge Specifications……………………………………………………………………5


List of Attachments

Attachment A – Map ................................ ................................ ................................ ............... A-1
Attachment B – Rules and Regulations for Recycled Water Use……………………………….B -1
Attachment C – Information Sheet………………………………………………………………….C -1
Attachment D – Monitoring and Reporting Program………… …………………………………...D -1

Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


3 I. FACILITY INFORMATION
The following Discharger is subject to waste discharge requirements as set forth in this
Order:
Table 4. Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Diego Region (hereinafter San
Diego Water Board), finds:
A. Background . The Valley Center Municipal Water District (hereinafter VCMWD or
Discharger) submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (ROWD) , via email on May 26,
2015, requesting an expansion of its recycled water production from 0.147 to 0.275
million g allons per day ( mgd) at the Woods Valley Ranch Water Reclamation Facility
(WVRWRF) in San Diego County . The discharge of recycled water from the facility is
regulated by Order No. R9 -1998 -009.

B. Legal Authorities . This Order is issued pursuant to section 13263 and 13523.1 of
the Water Code. This Order serves as a Master Rec ycling Permit which also includes
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) issued pursuant to article 4, chapter 4,
division 7 of the Water Code.
C. Background and Rationale for Requirements . The San Diego Water Board
developed the requirements in this Order based on information in the ROWD , self-
monitoring reports , water quality control plans and policies,1 and other available
information. An Information Sheet (Attachment C) was prepared for this Order , which
contains background information and rationale for Order requirements. The
Information Sheet is hereby incorporated into and constitutes Findings for this Order.
D. Antidegradation Policy . The State Water Resources Control Board (State Wat er
Board) established California’s Antidegradation Policy in State Water Board
Resolution No. 68 -16, the Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining High
Quality of Waters in California . Resolution No. 68 -16 requires that existing quality of

1 Including the State Water Board’s Recycled Water Policy (2 009 as modified in 2013):
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/draft_amendment_to_policy.sht
ml Discharger Valley Center Municipal Water District
Name of Facility Woods Valley Ranch Water Reclamation Facility
Facility Address 27743 Valley Center Road
Valley Center, CA 92082
San Diego County
Facility Contact, Title and
Phone Mr. Gary T. Arant , General Manager
(760) 735-4500
Mailing Address 29300 Valley Center Road, Valley Cent er, CA 92082
Type of Facility Wastewater Treatment Plant
Facility Design Flow 0.275 million gallons per day (Annual Average Daily Flow)
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


4 waters be maintained unless degradation is justified based on specific findings. The
San Diego Water Board’s Basin Plan implements and incorporates by reference both
the State and federal antidegradation policies. As discussed in the Information Sheet,
the discha rge described in the Order is consistent with the Antidegradation Policy.
E. Standard and Special Provisions . Standard Provisions apply to all WDRs. The
standard provisions contain language the San Diego Water Board finds necessary to
ensure the Order is en forced, the facility is designed and operated for the protection of
human health, records are maintained, and changes are reported. The Discharger
must comply with all standard provisions .
F. Notification of Interested P ersons . The San Diego Water Board has notified the
Discharger and known interested agencies and persons of its intent to prescribe
Waste Discharge Requirements in this Order for the discharge and has provided them
with an opportunity to submit their written comments and recommendations. Deta ils of
the notification are provided in the Information Sheet (Attachment C of this Order ).
G. Consideration of Public Comment . The San Diego Water Board, in a public
meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the discharge. Details of
the Pub lic Hearing are provided in the Information Sheet of this Order.
H. California Environmental Quality Act . The VCMWD is functioning as the lead
agency under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). VCMWD prepared a
Final Environmental Impact Report t itled, South Village Water Reclamation Project ,
(State Clearinghouse #2007101049) dated April 7, 2008 and subsequent Addend a
Nos. 1 and 2 to the Final EIR dated January 20, 2011 and January 25, 2013
respectively. The two Addenda were prepared to address p roposed changes in
facilities sites, wastewater flows, and the WVRWRF service area . A Mitigated
Negative Declaration dated January 7, 2015 was prepared to asses s potential
environmental impacts from the North Village portion of the WVRWRF sewer service
area. The Mitigated Negative Declaration concludes that the project will have less
than significant impacts on water quality.
The San Diego Water Board is a responsible agency under CEQA. As such, the
Board considered the EIR and addenda, and the Mitigated Negative Declaration, and
the project’s environmental effects as described in those documents. The San Diego
Water Board concurs the project will have less than significant impacts on matters
within the Board ’s jurisdiction.
I. Rescission of Outdated Waste Discharge Requirements . The Woods Valley
Ranch Water Reclamation Facility (WVRWRF ) is regulated under Order No. R9-1998 -
0009, Waste Discharge and Water Recycling Requirements for the Valley Center
Municipal Water District , Woods Valley Ranch Water Reclama tion Facility , San Diego
County . Order No. R9-2015-0104 supersedes Order No . R9-1998 -0009 .
J. Water Quality Objectives . The WVRWRF is located in the Valley Center Hydrologic
Subarea (903.14). Water Quality Objectives for g roundw ater are not to be exceeded
more than 10 percent of the time during any one year period. The water quality
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


5 objectives for the Santa Maria Valley can be found in Table 3 -3 of Chapter 3 of the
Water Quality Control Plan for the San Diego Basin (Basin Plan ).2
THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY OR DERED, that this Order supersedes Order No. R9 -1998 -
009 upon the effective date of this Order except for enforcement purposes. In order to
meet the provisions contained in division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section
13000) and applicable regulat ions, it is further ordered that the Discharger comply with the
requirements in this Order. If any part of this Order is subject to a temporary stay of
enforcement, unless otherwise specified in the order granting stay, the Discharger shall
comply with th e analogous portions of the previous Order. This action does not prevent the
San Diego Water Board from taking enforcement actions for past violations of the previous
Order.
III. DISCHARGE PROHIBITIO NS
A. Discharge of waste, other than incidental runoff, to lands which have not be en
specifically described in this Order or in the Report of Waste Discharge , and for which
valid w aste discharge requirements are not in force are prohibited.
B. Discharges of treated or untreated solid or liquid waste to waters of the Unite d States
are prohibited unless as authorized by an N ational Discharge Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the San Diego Water Board.
C. Discharges of treated or untreated solid or liquid waste directly or indirectly to any
surface waters of the State (including ephemeral streams and vernal pools) are
prohibited.
D. The treatment, storage, or disposal of waste in a manner that creates pollution,
contamination or nuisance, as defined by Water Code section 13050, is prohibited .
IV. DISCHARGE SPECIFICATIONS
A. The average annual effluent flow from the WVRWRF shall not exceed 0.275 mgd.
B. The disinfected tertiary treated recycled water from the plant shall not contain
constituents in excess of the discharge specifications in Table 5:
Table 5. Dischar ge Specifications
Constituent Units Daily Maximum1 Monthly
Average2 12-Month3
Chlorine Residua l Milligrams per
liter (mg/L) See Section IV.C.1
Chlorine -Contact Time (CT) Milligrams minute
per liter (mg -
min/L) See Section IV.C.1
Total Coliform Bacteria Most Probable
Number per 100 See Section IV.C.2

2
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/sandiego/water_issues/programs/basin_plan/docs/update082812/Chpt_3_2012.
pdf
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


6 Constituent Units Daily Maximum1 Monthly
Average2 12-Month3
milliliters(MPN
per 100 mL)
Turbidity (TURB) Nephelometric
Turbidity Units
(NTU) See Section IV.C.3
Biological Oxygen Demand
(BOD 5 @ 20ºC) mg/L 30 45

Total Suspended Solids
(TSS) mg/L 30 45

pH pH units Within the limits of 6.5 -9.0 at all times
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L - 1,100
Chloride (Cl) mg/L - - 300
Sulfate (SO 4) mg/L - - 400
Percent Sodium (% Na) % - - 60%

Iron (Fe) mg/L - - 0.30
Manganese (Mn) mg/L - - 0.05
Methylene Blue - Activate d
Substances (MBAS) mg/L - -
0.5
Boron (B) mg/L - - 0.75
Fluoride (F) mg/L - - 1.0
Aluminum mg/L - - 1
Arsenic mg/L - - 0.05
Antimony mg/L - - 0.006
Barium mg/L - - 1
Beryllium mg/L - - 0.004
Cadmium mg/L - - 0.005
Cyanide mg/L - - 0.2
Mercury mg/L - - 0.002
Nickel mg/L - - 0.1
Perchlorate mg/L - - 0.006
Selenium mg/L - - 0.05
Thallium mg/L - - 0.002
1The daily maximum discharge specification shall apply to the results of a single composite or gr ab sample
representing non -overlapping 24 hour periods.
2The monthly average discharge specification shall apply to the arithmetic mean of the results of all samples
collected during each calendar month.
3The 12 -month average discharge specification shall apply to the arithmetic mean of the results of all samples
collected during a calendar year.



Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


7 C. Recycled water produced from the WVRWRF shall comply with the following .
1. The chlorine disinfection process must provide a chlorine contact time (or CT)3
value of not less than 450 milligram -minutes per liter at all times with a modal
contact time of at least 90 minutes, based on peak dry weather design flow.
2. The median density of total coliform bacteria measured in the disinfected recycled
water effluent from the Facility shall not exceed a Most Probabl e Number (MPN)
of 2.2 organisms per 100 milliliters, utilizing the bacteriological results of the last
seven days for which analyses have been completed; and the number of total
coliform bacteria shall not exceed a MPN of 23 organisms per 100 milliliters i n
more than one sample in any 30 -day period. No sample shall exceed a n MPN of
240 total coliform bacteria per 100 milliliters.
3. Turbidity measurement of the recycled water effluent from the disk filters shall not
exceed a daily average value of 2 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU), shall not
exceed 5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time during a 24 -hour period, and shall
not exceed 10 NTU at any time. Turbidity measurement of the recycled water
effluent from the membrane bioreactor shall not ex ceed 0.2 NTU more than 5
percent of the time within a 24 -hour period and shall not exceed 0.5 NTU at any
time.
V. RECYCLED WATER PURVE YANCE REQUIREMENTS
A. The Discharger must develop and submit the following to the San Diego Water Board,
State Water Board Divis ion of Drinking Water (DDW) , and County of San Diego
Department of Environmental Health (County DEH) upon request .

1. Rules and Regulations for Recycled Water Users governing the design and
construction of recycled water use facilities and the use of recycl ed water. Rules
and regulations for purveyance of recycled water shall, at a minimum, include the
requirements which are contained in Attachment B to this Order.

2. A program to conduct compliance inspections of recycled water reuses sites.
Inspections sha ll determine the status of compliance with the Discharger 's
approved rules and regulations for recycled water users.

3. A report containing the information listed below. The Discharger may submit a
report that covers more than one reuse site. The report sh all include a detailed
description of each reuse site identifying all of the information below:

a. The number, location, and type of facilities within the use area proposing to use
domestic and recycled water. "Facility" means any type of building or struct ure,
or defined area of specific public use that utilizes or proposes to utilize a dual
plumbed system.

b. The average number of persons estimated to be served at each use area on a

3 Defined as the product of total chlorine residual and modal contact time measured at the same point .
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


8 daily basis.

c. The specific boundaries of the proposed use site area includin g a map showing
the location of each facility, drinking water fountain and impoundment to be
served.

d. The person or persons responsible for operation of the recycled water system
at each use area.

e. The specific use to be made of the recycled water at each use area.

f. The methods to be used by the Discharger to assure that the installation and
operation of the recycled system will not result in cross connections between
the recycled water piping system and the potable water piping system. This
shall include a description of pressure, dye, or other test methods to be used to
test the system.

g. Plans and specifications shall include the following and shall be submitted to
the DDW and County DEH:

i. Proposed piping system to be used.

ii. Pipe locations of both the rec ycled and potable systems.

iii. Type and location of the outlets and plumbing fixtures that will be accessible
to the public.

iv. The methods and devices to be used to prevent backflow of recycled water
into the public water system.

v. Plan notes relating to recycl ed water specific installation and use
requirements.

B. Prior to providing recycled water to a new use site, the Discharger shall do the
following:

1. Submit for review and approval a report certifying that the project conforms to all
criteria described in Rec ycled Water Purveyance Requirements V.A.3 . The
certification report shall document that all criteria described in Recycled Water
Purveyance Requirements V.A.3 has been submitted to and approved by the
appropriate regulatory agency. Information submitted as a supplement to this
report shall document compliance with any criteria, as described by Recycled
Water Purveyance Requirements V.A.3 , not met through submittal of the initial
report .

2. Prior to the operation of a dual-plumbed recycled water system and a nnually
thereafter, the Discharger shall ensure that the dual plumbed system within each
facility and use area is inspected for possible cross connections with the potable
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


9 water system. The recycled water system shall also be tested for possible cross
connections at least once every four years. The testing shall be conducted in
accordance with the method described in the report submitted pursuant to title 22,
California Code of Regulations ( Cal. Code of Regs. ) section 60314. The
inspections and the testi ng shall be performed by a cross connection control
specialist certified by the California -Nevada section of the American Water Works
Association or an organization with equivalent certification requirements. The
County DEH shall be notified at least 30 d ays prior to any cross connection test. A
written report documenting the result of the inspection or testing for the prior year
shall be submitted to the County DEH within 30 days following completion of the
inspection or testing.

C. The Discharger shall ensure the following requirements are met for all reuse sites:

1. Enforce recycled water rules and regulations.

2. Conduct recycled water reuse site compliance inspections in accordance with the
program submitted in compliance with Recycled Water Purveyance Requ irements
V.A.2 of this Order.

3. Notify the DDW and the County DEH of any incidence of recycled water backflow
into the potable water system as soon as possible, but in no case later than 24
hours after finding the incident.

4. Maintain a current list of all o n-site recycled water supervisors.
VI. PROVISIONS
A. Standard Provisions . The Discharger shall comply with all of the following Standard
Provisions .
1. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order. Any noncompliance
with this Order constitutes a v iolation of the Water Code and is grounds for (a)
enforcement action; (b) termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification of
this Order; or (c) denial of a report of waste discharge in application for new or
revised waste discharge requirements .
2. The Discharger shall allow the San Diego Water Board, or an authorized
representative, upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may
be required by law to do the following :
a. Enter upon the Discharger's premises where a regulated facility or activity is
located or conducted or where records must be kept under the conditions of
this Order,

b. Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of this Order,

c. Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and
control equipment), practices or operations regulated or required under this
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


10 Order, and

d. Sample or monitor, at reasonable times for the purposes of assuring
compliance with this Order or as otherwise authorized by the W ater Code, any
substances or parameters at any location.

B. The Discharger shall report any noncompliance that may endanger health or the
environment. Pursuant to section 5411.5 of the Health and Safety Code, any sewage
overflow or spill shall be immediatel y reported to the County of San Diego,
Department of Environmental Health to the extent permitted by federal law . In
addition, any such information shall be provided orally to the San Diego Water Board
within 24 hours from the time the Discharger becomes aware of the circumstances. A
written report shall also be provided within 5 days of the time the Discharger becomes
aware of the circumstances. The written report shall contain a description of the
noncompliance and its cause; the period of noncomplianc e, including exact dates and
times, and if the nonco mpliance has not been corrected; the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance. The San Diego Water Board m ay waive the written
report on a case -by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
The following occurrence(s) must be reported to the San Diego Water Board within 24
hours:
1. Any bypass from any portion of the treatment facility.
2. Any discharge of treated or untreated wastewater resulting from sewer line breaks,
obstruction, surcharge, or any other circumstances.
3. Any treatment plant upset that causes the discharge specifications of this Order to
be exceeded.
4. Failure of disinfection sy stem.
5. Disinfected tertiary effluent total coliform bacteria shall not be greater than 240
MPN/100 mL.
C. The Discharger shall report all overflow events that occur at the plant. For purposes
of this reporting requirement, an overflow event is defined as a di scharge of treated or
untreated wastewater at a location onsite or other lands owned by the Discharger not
authorized by waste discharge requirements , which results from a pump station
failure, line break, obstruction, surcharge, or any other operational d ysfunction. This
reporting requirement applies to all overflow events other than those events subject to
regulation under the State Board Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ and San Diego Water
Board Order No. R9 -2007 -0005. Overflows of the kind identified under thi s provision
shall be reported to the San Diego Water Board with the monthly monitoring repor t in
which the overflow occurs.
D. If the Discharger or end user , without regard to intent or negligence, causes or permits
an unauthorized discharge of 50,000 gallons or more of recycled water that has been
Order No. R9 -2015 -0104 December 16 , 2015


11 treated to at least disinfected tertiary recycled water4 or 1,000 gallons or more of
recycled water that is treated at a level less than disinfected tertiary recycled water in
or on any waters of the State, or cause s or permits such unauthorized discharge to be
discharged where it is, or probably will be, discharged in or on any waters of the State,
shall, as soon as (1) that person has knowledge of the discharge, (2) notification is
possible, and (3) notification ca n be provided without substantially impeding cleanup
or other emergency measures, immediately notify the San Diego Water Board in
accordance with reporting requirements in Provision VI. B.
E. The incidental discharge of recycled water to waters of the State is not a violation of
these requirements if the incidental discharge does not unreasonably affect the
beneficial uses of the water, and does not result in the