WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
The Cross Creek Pump Station and the Silverbridge Pump Station, each equipped with
a wet well, two pumps and 1442 feet and 1185 feet of force main , respectively, convey
wastewater to a gravity collection system drain ing to the Main Pump Station. All
wastewater enters the Main Pump Station from which it is pumped through 17,200 feet
of force main to the treatment plant. An air injection facility is located 10,000 feet from
the Main Pump Station.
At the WWTP wastewater passes through two bar screens and a distribution box where
it is split equally between two aeration basins . From the aeration basins, e ffluent gravity
flows to three evaporation/percolatio n ponds, Storage Reservoirs 1 -3, which are
operated in series.
In dry weather months, a lift station pumps water from Storage Reservoir 3 to the 6.2-
acre Flood Irrigation Area and two land application spray field areas totaling 35.8 acres .
A Drainage Pond captures runoff from the land application areas where it is pumped
back to Storage Reservoir 1.


INFORMATION SHEET ORDER R5-2017-0080 2
SHASTA COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 8
PALO CEDRO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SHASTA COUNTY

GROUNDWATER CONDITIONS
The WWTP is in the Enterprise F lat hydrologic subarea (No. 508.10) as depicted on
interagency hydrologic maps prepared by the Department of Water Resources (DWR)
in August 1986.
The DWR Groundwater Information Center Interactive Map Application shows regional
groundwater quality is high : nitrate as nitrogen concentrations are below the maximum
contaminant level (MCL) of 10 mg/L (results range from <0.1 to 10 mg/L) and electrical
conductivity ranges from 110 -147 µmhos/cm.
Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 99 -090 required the Discharger to develop a
monitoring well network at the WWTP. A 2001 Subsurface Investigation Report showed
a minimum of 30 feet of unsaturated clays in conjunction with a hardpan layer present
within 5 feet of the ground surface underlies the WWTP. On the basis of t hese findings,
the Water Board removed the requirement to install a groundwater monitoring network.
Nearby well logs demonstrate that groundwater is first encountered at 80 -100 feet
below ground surface, and often up to 140 feet. Groundwater flows from north to sou th
toward Stillwater Creek and the Sacramento River .
Proposed Order Terms and Conditions
DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND PROVISIONS
The proposed O rder prohibit s discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water
drainage courses .
The proposed Order set s an average daily dry weather flow limit of 0. 117 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow limit of 0.65 mgd.
The proposed Order sets the following