DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION The Parkwood WWTF is located on the southeastern edge of the City of Madera, about
a mile west of Highway 99, one-half mile north of Avenue 12, and about a quarter mile
east of Highway 145 in Madera Co unty as shown on Attachment A - Site Location Map.
Wastewater is generated from a 250-home community , and a small commercial
shopping center. The Parkwood WWTF consists of a wet/dry well followed by a manual
bar screen, aeration tank, clarifier , and sludge drying beds prior to wastewater disposal
in one of three unlined percolation/evaporation ponds as shown on Attachment B - Site
Plan Map.
The domestic wastewater is not metered, and the flow rates are estimated using pump
run times. The RWD indicates flows are about 23,000 gpd, averaging 22,688 gpd. The
file record indicates there may have been some issues with inflow and infiltration at the
WWTF during January 2023, with reported flows up to 0.296 m illion gallons per day.
The Discharger indicated that the high reported flows are overestimations due to
increased run times of the old, inefficient pumps (see the attached memorandum for
further discussion) . This NOA includes a requirement for the Discharger to evaluate the
method of recording/estimating the volume of wastewater processed by the WWTF.
The Parkwood WWTF is near the City of Madera WWTF , which is located at the
northwest corner of Road 21 ½ and Avenue 13. The RWD notes that the City of Madera
collection system runs parallel to the 16,000 lineal foot Parkwood WWTF collection system and notes that some roads have both Parkwood and City of Madera collection system lines. The Parkwood WWTF collection system was constructed in the 1950’s .
The RWD indicates the mains rarely have conveyance issues, but laterals constructed
with Orangeburg pipe ( a bitum inous fiber pipe) are past the 30 -to-50-year life
expectancy and have frequent tree root intrusions and collapses. A flow diagram for the
Parkwood WWTF is presented on Attachment C, Process Flow Diagram.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND

===PLANNED CHANGES===

