wastewater treatment and disposal areas.

14. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification B.13, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of the aeration lagoons and storage rese rvoir
shall not be less than 1.0 mg/l.

15. Recycled water applied to the irrigation area shall be disinfected or the irrigation area
shall be disinfected to protect human health and surface waters from the release of storm
water from the irrigation area. The Disinfection method shall be reviewed and approved
by DHS and the Executive Officer. Provision E.1.b outlines a compliance schedule for
the implementation of the disinfection method(s).

16. The effluent discharged to the irrigation area shall not have a p H less than 6.5 or greater
than 9.0.

17. The following constituent limitations shall apply to wastewater discharged to the
irrigation area:

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -01-210 -11-
NEVADA COUNTY SAN ITATION DISTRICT NO. 1
PENN VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
NEVADA COUNTY



Constituent
Units 30-Day
Average 30-Day
Median Daily
Maximum
BOD 1 mg/l 40 --- 80
Settleable Solids ml/l/hr 0.5 --- 1.0
Total Coliform Organisms2 MPN3/100 ml --- 23 240
 1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20  C.
 2 Coliform analysis shall be performed upon implementation of the disinfection alternative as required by
 Provision E.1.b of this Order. 3 Most Probable Number

18. The aerated lagoons and storage reservoir shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. In particular:

a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are
not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.

19. A controlled 100 -foot buffer shall be maintained aroun d the irrigation area, and between
any watercourse and the wetted area produced during spray disposal.

20. Signs with proper wording of sufficient size shall be placed at areas of access and around
the perimeter of all areas used for effluent disposal to aler t the public of the presence of
wastewater.

21. WWTP and irrigation area design shall be constructed, operated, and maintained to
prevent inundation or washout due to flood, storm, or an entire winter season with a
100-year return frequency.

22. The WWTP shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow
and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the non -
irrigation season and collection of all tailwater and storm water from the irrigation area to
comply w ith Discharge Specification B.21. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based
on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 -years, distributed monthly in
accordance with historical rainfall patterns.

23. The aerated lagoons and storage reserv oir freeboard shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically to the lowest point of overflow).

24. Before 1 October of each year, available WWTP storage capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications Nos. 22 and 23.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -01-210 -12-
NEVADA COUNTY SAN ITATION DISTRICT NO. 1
PENN VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
NEVADA COUNTY


25. Upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanitary sewer system resulting in a sanitary
sewer overflow, the Discharger shall, to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with
this Order, take any necessary remedial action to (a) control or l imit the volume of
sewage discharged, (b) terminate the sewage discharge as rapidly as possible, and (c)
recover as much as possible of the sewage discharged (including washdown water) for
proper disposal. The Discharger shall implement all remedial actio ns to the extent they
may be applicable to the discharge including the following:

a. Interception and rerouting of sewage flows around the sewage line failure;
b. Vacuum truck recovery of sanitary sewer overflows and washdown water;
c. Use of portable aerators wh ere complete recovery of the sanitary sewer overflows
are not practicable and where severe oxygen depletion is expected in surface
waters; and
d. Cleanup of sewage -related debris at the overflow site.

26. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released
or discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes violation of Groundwater
Limitations.

C. Sludge Specifications:

1. Sludge in this document means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during
primary, se condary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to
grit and screening material generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge
means sludge that will not be subject to further treatment at the WWTP. Biosolids refers
to sludge that has undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant
to federal and state regulations as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture,
horticulture and land reclamation.

2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from scre ens, sumps, septic tanks, ponds as
needed to ensure optimal WWTP operation and adequate hydraulic capacity.

3. Treatment and storage of sludge generated by the WWTP shall be confined to the WWTP
property and conducted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste constituents into
soils in a mass or concentration that will violate Groundwater Limitations.

4. Any storage of residual sludge, solid waste and biosolids on property of the WWTP shall
be temporary and controlled and contained in a manner that minim izes leachate formation
and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or concentration that
will violate Groundwater Limitations.

5. Residual sludge, biosolids and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved by
the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for further treatment,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -01-210 -13-
NEVADA COUNTY SAN ITATION DISTRICT NO. 1
PENN VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
NEVADA COUNTY


disposal, or reuse at sites (e.g., landfill, WWTP, composting site, soil amendment sites)
operated in accordance with valid waste discharge requirements issued by a Regional
Water Quali ty Control Board will satisfy this specification.

6. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with General Biosolids Order (State
Water Resources Control Board Water Quality Order No. 2000 -10-DWQ, General Waste
Discharge Requirements for the Dischar ge of Biosolids to Land as a Soil Amendment in
Agriculture, Silviculture, Horticultural, and Land Reclamation Activities). The
Discharger must obtain a Notice of Applicability of the General Biosolids Order from the
Executive Officer or site -specific wast e discharge requirements prior to discharge of
biosolids to any site.
7. Use and disposal of biosolids should comply with the self -implementing federal
regulations of 40 CFR 503, which are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EP A), not the Board. If during the life of this Order the State accepts
primacy for implementation of 40 CFR 503, the Board may also initiate enforcement
where appropriate.

D. Groundwater Limitations:

1. Release of waste constituents from any wastewater trea tment or storage system
component associated with the WWTF shall not cause groundwater under and beyond
that system component, as determined by an approved well monitoring network, to:

a. Contain any of the following constituents in concentration greater tha n as listed or
greater than background quality, whichever is greater:

Constituent Units Limitation
Boron mg/L 0.6
Chloride mg/L 106
Iron mg/L 0.3
Manganese mg/L 0.05
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml Nondetect
Total Dissolved Solids1 mg/L 450
Total Nitrogen mg/L 10
Nitrite (as N) mg/L 1
Nitrate (as N) mg/L 10
Ammonia (as N) mg/L 0.5
Total Organic Carbon (TOC) mg/L 0
Total Trihalomethanes g/L 100

1 A cumulative impact that accounts for several dissolved constituents in addition to those listed here
separately [e.g. alkalinity (carbonate and bicarbonate), calcium, hardness, phosphate, potassium,
etc.].
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5 -01-210 -14-
NEVADA COUNTY SAN ITATION DISTRICT NO. 1
PENN VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
NEVADA COUNTY


b. Contain any constituent not id entified in Groundwater Limitation D.1.a in
concentrations greater than background quality (whether chemical, physical,
biological, bacteriological, radiological, or some other property or characteristic).

c. Exhibit a pH of less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5 pH units.

d. Impart taste, odor, or color that creates nuisance or impairs any beneficial use.

2. For the effluent recycling and irrigation application areas:

a. Release of waste constituents from any irrigation application area associated with the
WWTP shal l not cause groundwater under and beyond the irrigation area to contain
waste constituents in concentration statistically greater than background water quality .

b. If groundwater monitoring shows that waste constituents are present in concentrations
greater than background, then upon request of the Executive Officer, the Discharger
shall complete the report described in Provision E.3.

E. Provisions:

1. All of the reports shall be submitted pursuant to Section 13267 of the CWC. All reports
shall be prepared a nd stamped by a California Registered Engineer or Engineering
Geologist :

a. Submit by 1 October 2001 a scaled map of the wastewater treatment facility
including the locations of the on -site groundwater monitoring wells. Include within
this submittal the mon itoring well logs as well as the professionally surveyed
monitoring well elevations.

b. Submit by 1 January 2002 a work plan, which outlines the method by which the
Discharger will disinfect the wastewater effluent or irrigation application area to
achieve t he