Wastewater System Operation Summary and Site-Specific
Requirements and Limitations
 Attachment 2: Figures
Attachment 3: Monitoring and Reporting Program R3 -2025-0061

cc:
Ryan Palafox , ryan.palafox@parks.ca.gov
Christopher Fridrich, christopher.fridrich@parks.ca.gov
Dylan Barclift, Dylan.barclift@parks.ca.gov
Kathy Truong Krebs , kathy.Truong- krebs@waterboards.ca.gov
Connor Cappi , cappic@countyofmonterey.gov
Todd Stanley, todd.stanley@waterboards.ca.gov
Jennifer Epp, jennifer.epp@Waterboards.ca.gov
Office of Operator Certification, wwopcertprogram@waterboards.ca.gov
WDR Program, rb3 -wdr@waterboards.ca.gov
 ECM/CIWQS = CW -248169
GeoTracker = GT -
 WDR100027053
Rev 4/23/24
Subject Name = Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park WWTP Wastewater Permit
 \\ca.epa.local \RB\RB3\Shared\ WDR\ WDR Facilities \Monterey Co \Pfeiffer Big Sur State
Park\1_Permit \2025 Permit Update \NOA and MRP \Pfeiffer Big Sur
NOA_final_10_02_2025.docx


1
 ATTACHMENT 1
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SU MMARY AND SITE -SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS

1. OWNERSHIP AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
1.1. Ownership and facility information submitted by Department of Parks and
Recreation to the Central Coast Water Board is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Owner and Wastewater System Information
Facility Name California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP
Facility Address 47177 Hwy 1
Big Sur , CA 93920
Parcel Number s 419-031-002-000
Latitude /Longitude 36.257535, -121.787878
Owner of Facility California Department of Parks and Recreation
Legally
Responsible
Official of Owner Jim Doran
Owner Mailing
Address 2211 Garden Rd
Monterey, C A 93940
Billing Address 2211 Garden Rd
Monterey, CA 93940
Permitted Design
Flow , Max
Average Monthly
(gallons per day,
gpd) 80,000
Baseline Flow
(average annual
flow) in gpd 55,000
Operator s Ryan Palafox , Interim Chief Plant Operator , Grade III
Operator No. 31208
Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system
present
Waste type and
Service Area The California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur Wastewater System
provides services for:
• 189 RV and tent campground sites with no RV hook -ups
• One cabin
• 18 comfort stations
• One RV dump station
• 62-cottage style room lodge (some with kitchenettes)
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWT P MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
2
 • A large restaurant and coffee bar that serves camping,
lodging, and wedding event guests
• 37 full-time and seasonal employee units , 1 seasonal
dormitory
• Two full hook -up RV sites for full-time employees
• Receives approximately 500 gallons per week from nearby
campground temporary sanitary facilities and two holding
tanks
• 1 combination restroom/shower building consisting of three
lavatories and three showers permitted per future Pfeiffer Cabin project

Threat to Water
Quality 3
Complexity B
For Internal Use
Fee Code 58
Fees Received Yes
Primary Place
Type Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Type Municipal/Domestic
Facility Waste
Type Domestic Wastewater
Regulatory
measure Type Enrollee - WDR
Reclamation
Included No
EPA Approved
Pretreatment
Program No

NAVIGABLE, GROUNDWATER AND OCEAN WATERS SUSCEPTIBLE TO
WASTEWATER POLLUTION
The Big Sur River is a water of the United States. The Big Sur River is the nearest
surface water located approximately 100 feet west of the wastewater disposal leach
fields . The Big Sur River joins the Pacific Ocean approximately 4 miles north- west of the
facility and leach fields. First-encountered groundwater is approximately 1- 10 feet below
ground surface.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
1. The Wastewater System is composed of conveyance piping, lift stations, solids
screening and grinding , grit removal, two activated sludge aeration tanks, three
clarifier s, two radial filter units, aerobic solids digester, and SCADA. California
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWT P MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
3
 Department of Parks and Recreation reports that they own and operate a 650-gallon
pumper truck for transporting wastewater from neighboring campgrounds’ temporary
sanitary facilities including Andrew Molera, Point Sur, and JP Burns . The pumper
truck is operated on a weekly basis and historically has add ed 650 gallons per week
of additional flow to the system. Starting June 30, 2025, a few of these locations are
pumped, hauled by a contractor, and not disposed of at the Wastewater System .
California Department of Parks and Recreation will continue to service Andrew
Molera State Reserve (4 chemical toilets) and a portion of Point Sur Lighthouse (2
chemical toilets) due to the remote locations . There will be approximately 500
gallons disposed of at the Wastewater System weekly from these offsite sources .
The Wastewater System ’s backup power supply system consist s of a 100- kilowatt
industrial generator, an automatic transfer switch, and a 1 ,000-gallon propane fuel
tank. In the event of a power outage, the industrial generator and automatic transfer
switch are instantaneously activated for continued Wastewater System operation.
The backup power supply system is on a weekly automated test schedule to ensure
proper operation. A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility
site map and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Activated Sludge Treatment , Disposal Technologies , and Capacity
Design Flows Influent Maximum Daily Flow : 92,800 gallons per day (gpd)
Average Monthly Flow : 80,000 gpd
Grease Trap Restaurant grease waste is separated via a grease trap
located at the lodge, which is maintained by a
concessionaire. The grease interceptor is 2500 gallons with a 100- gallon pump vault. The restaurant empties the
interceptor when it gets full. The restaurant has the grease interceptor pumped every 4 months on average.
 Matthew Wilkins is the contact person for operation and maintenance of the grease trap:
matthew.wilkins@guestservices.com .

California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWT P MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
4
 Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment Preliminary treatment consists of a JWC Auger Monster
System Model No. AGD 1800- 285 that grinds, screens,
washes, and transports inorganic solid to a bagged
disposal unit. The JWC Auger Monster 's maximum
capacity to screen is 250 gallons per minute (gpm) with an
influent suspended solids concentration of 300 milligrams per liter (mg/l).
 At the headworks, t here is a secondary channel parallel to
the main channel that is used for bypass ing the preliminary
treatment system and inspecting and maintaining the
preliminary treatment equipment .

After major solids removal, the wastewater is directed
through a trapezoidal flume for continuous volumetric flow
measurement (flow range up to 600 gpm ) and then
pumped through a Eutek TeaCup cyclonic separator grit
removal system with a design capacity of 200 gpm .
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWT P MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
5
 Secondary Treatment Secondary treatment begins within two 43,000 gallon
extended aeration basins (AB1 and AB2) operated in
parallel . Aeromod ClarAtors clarifier s (Clarifier 1 and
Clarifier 2) are centered inside each of the two aeration
basins to perform primary clarification after aeration. Each
primary clarifier can treat a daily average of 14,280 gpd
and a maximum of 46,560 gpd. Effluent from both primary
clarifiers combine and flow to an Aeromod Split ClarAtor,
Model 16320 secondary clarifie r (Clarifier 3) for further
treatment . The Split ClarAtor clarifier 's average design
treatment capacity is 28,800 gpd and a maximum design
capacity of 92,800 gpd .
 Wasted activated sludge from both primary clarifiers is pumped to the digester. Return activated sludge is captured out of the secondary clarifier and split to be reintroduced into each of the two aeration basins.

Post clarifier filtering consists of four RF-400-CW radial
filter unit s. The filters operate in parallel but only one is on
at anytime. The non- operating radial filter comes online
once the operating filter goes offline to initiate the backwash cycle. Backwash is initiated automatically every
24 hrs or by head loss across the radial filter unit.
Backwash effluent is redirected back to the aeration basins. The average design flow rate for each radial filter
is 25,000 gpd for a total possible filtering capacity of
100,000 gpd. The radial filter performance meets title 22
California Code of Regulations § 60301.320 definition of
filtered wastewater , which is requirement of a disinfected
recycled water but the effluent is not disinfected and is not
used as recycled water.
Disposal Effluent wastewater is disposed in a leach field with a
100% replacement zone. The leach field has seven zones, separated by isolation valves at the start of each zone. The zones are rotated every 6 months, resulting in six
online zones and one offline zone.
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWT P MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
6
 Biosolids/Sludge
Production and Handling Solids produced at the headworks are bagged for hauling
offsite by Monterey Regional Waste Management District
(831- 384-5313) and disposal at the Marina Landfill in
Monterey County .

Wasted activated sludge is pumped into the aerobic
digester with a storage capacity of 13 days at average
daily flow and four days at maximum daily flow . Digested
sludge is directed to either one of two sandbeds or through a belt press for dewatering. Solids are collected and taken
offsite for final disposal by Waste Management at the
Marina Landfill in Monterey County .
Wastewater Effluent
Design Goals1 BOD and TSS < 30 mg/L
Total Nitrogen < 20-50 mg/L
1 These are design goals and should be used to evaluate system performance.

WASTE WATER SYSTEM -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMIT ATIONS
California Department of Parks and Recreation must operate the facility in accordance
with the General Permit and this notice of applicability .4 California Department of Parks
and Recreation must operate the extended aeration, activated sludge, tertiary filtration
treatment system to comply with the