wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WVVTF for
emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the
calibrations (standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WVVTF as currently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
6. The most recent annual water supply report for the City;
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids;
b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow diagram;
and
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WVVTF. If more than one method is used,
include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal, include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the facilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application, include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs that regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of
facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting, include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2008-0034
CITY OF PORTERVILLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY -10-
8. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
9. A statement regarding whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the groundwater cleanup system as currently constructed
and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for
adequacy.
Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report shall be prepared as a
fourth quarter groundwater monitoring report. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring
Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly
groundwater monitoring schedule plus the results of any annually sampled groundwater
· constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally
presented in the quarterly groundwater monitoring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
2. Graphs of the analytical data for all samples collected from each monitoring well for
at least five calendar years. Each such graph shall plot over time for a given
monitoring well the concentration of one or more waste constituents specified herein
and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs shall be
plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in water quality, and shall
plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the previous monitoring events for at least the
last five calendar years.
Septage: The Discharger shall keep daily logs of septage received that includes, at a
minimum, company name, septage origin, and estimated quantity. A summary of this
information shall be reported in the annual reports monitoring reports. Daily logs shall
be kept onsite for at least five years and available for Regional Water Board's staff
review during an inspection.
All technical reports required herein must be overseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any
violations during the reporting period and all actions taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2008-0034
CITY OF PORTERVILLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY -11-
describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
DKP/kc: 3/14/2008 Ordered by: ______________ _
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
14 March 2008
(Date)
CITY OF PORTERVILLE WWTF
TULARE COUNTY
Background INFORMATION SHEET
The City of Porterville (hereafter Discharger or City) owns and operates a Wastewater
Treatment Facility (WWTF) that serves the people of Porterville and the nearby community of
Porter Vista. The WWTF is currently regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR)
Order No. R5-2001-103 and Cease and Desist Order No. R5-2001-104.
The WWTF is an activated sludge treatment plant consisting of a headworks with mechanical
and manual screens, aerated grit chambers, two "clarators" with primary aerator and aeration
chambers, two primary clarifiers, two aeration basins, four secondary clarifiers, a chlorine
contact tank, a blower room, sludge thickeners (Dissolved Air Flotation units), four anaerobic
sludge digesters, and a biosolids transfer station. The design capacity of the WWTF is
8 million gallons per day (mgd). The permitted monthly average daily discharge flow is
5.3 mgd (in 2006 the monthly average daily discharge flows were between 4.3 and 5.1 mgd).
WWTF generates secondary treated effluent. The WWTF does not chlorinate to disinfect the
treated effluent unless required to handle algae blooms.
Prior to 1987 sludge was stored in unlined sludge drying beds at the VWVTF and the treated
effluent was discharged to 12-acres of percolation basins at the WWTF or used to irrigate
approximately 100 acres of farmland adjacent to the WWTF. In the 1990s this ceased and
the effluent and sludge was transported approximately 4.5 miles to lands south and west of
the municipal airport, where the sludge is stored in soil cement lined sludge drying beds and
the treated effluent is used to irrigate fodder and fibber crops or allowed to percolated in a
43-acre disposal field. In the past up to 75% of the total effluent was discharged to the
43-acre disposal field for percolation. The percolation of effluent in the disposal field
increased the groundwater gradient and, in turn, groundwater flow velocity in the vicinity of the
Landfill. As a result, the City's continued discharge to the area has the potential to increase
area groundwater to levels that would threaten or adversely affect the Landfill and
groundwater quality. Current WDRs prohibits the Discharger from discharging effluent to the
disposal field in a manner that contributes to the flooding and migration of waste constituents
from the Teapot Dome Landfill. In addition, the Discharger was directed to decrease
percolation of effluent and increase the amount of reclaimed water used for irrigation.
The City's current Reclamation Area consists of approximately 980 acres with about
401 acres used for irrigation with recycled effluent (the rest of the Reclamation Area is dry
farmed). The Discharger plans to complete infrastructure improvements on approximately
220 additional acres for a total of 620 acres available for irrigation, 30 acres of which are
owned by Mr. Robert Nuckols.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Sludge is thickened and stored in the sludge digesters then is transferred via an underground
pipeline approximately 4.5 miles to the sludge drying beds adjacent to the municipal airport.
Currently the dried sludge is stockpiled in one of the lined sludge drying beds and hauled to a
composting facility for disposal. In July 2007, the Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2008-0034
CITY OF PORTERVILLE WWTF
TULARE COUNTY -2-
(NOi) for coverage under the Boisolids General Order to land apply boisolids for use as a soil
amendment on approximately 440 acres of land in the City's Reclamation Area. According to
the Operations Plan submitted with the NOi the biosolids will be spread in October. Following
application a crop will be planted on the fields in November either alfalfa, oat hay, or oat hay
followed by sudan grass. According to the Operations Plan the fields that are used for
biosolids will not be irrigated with effluent for one year following application. Current sludge
production is about 1,100 tons of dried sludge per year, which requires an estimated 65 to
70 acres of land each year. The Discharger estimates that, at an average daily flow of 8 mgd,
sludge production would be about 1,300 tons/year.
Groundwater Conditions
Regional groundwater in the area is encountered between 50 and 100 feet below ground
surface (bgs) and flows to the southwest, according to information in Lines of Equal Elevation
of Water in Wells in Unconfined Aquifer, published by Department of Water Resources in
Spring 2004.
In 1993 the Discharger established a groundwater-monitoring network around the WWTF and
the Reclamation Area. Additional monitoring wells were installed in 2001 as part of the
hydrogeologic investigation required under the conditions of WDRs Order No. R5-2001-103
and COO No. R5-2001-104.
In the most recent groundwater monitoring reports fist-encountered groundwater was between
35 and 50 feet in the monitoring wells around the WWTF and between 45 and 110 feet in the
monitoring wells around the Reclamation Area. Groundwater flow in recent years has
generally been to the west-southwest except in the area around the percolation ponds where,
due to mounding, groundwater flows away from the ponds in all directions.
Groundwater in the area is generally of good to excellent quality, except for nitrates, with EC
and TDS values around 300 to 600 µmhos/cm and 200 to 400 mg/L, respectively. Based on
the data supplied, groundwater in the vicinity of the Reclamation Area has been degraded for
nitrogen and salts as a result of past discharges from the WWTF. Groundwater nitrate
concentrations in the vicinity of the percolation ponds are between 12.4 mg/L and 18 mg/L,
expressed as nitrogen, and exceed the primary maximum contaminant limit (MCL) for nitrate
of 10 mg/L. In addition, groundwater in the vicinity of the percolation ponds contains EC,
sodium, and chloride at or near concentrations that could be harmful to salt sensitive crops
such as citrus and stone fruit, which are grown in the area. The continued percolation of
effluent, with nitrogen concentrations that exceed water quality objectives will likely contribute
and may further exacerbate nitrogen impacts in the area.
Compliance History
The Discharger submits monthly, quarterly, and annual self-monitoring reports (SMRs) in
compliance with the Monitoring and Reporting Program. The Discharger has noted its SMRs
that the monthly average EC of the effluent occasionally exceeds 900 umhos/cm, and
believes that it is the result of returning decant water from the sludge drying beds.
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2008-0034
CITY OF PORTERVILLE WWTF
TULARE COUNTY -3-
Cease and Desist Order No. R5-2001-104 (COO), adopted on 27 April 2001, required the
Discharger to perform a series of tasks according to a time schedule. Tasks required under
the COO include (a) provide effluent disposal capacity sufficient to comply with the terms and
conditions of WDRs Order No. R5-2001-103 at the permitted monthly average discharge rate
of 5.3 mgd including cessation of hydraulic impacts on the Teapot Dome landfill, (b) adoption
and implementation of an industrial sewer pretreatment program, (c) conduct a hydrogeologic
investigation to investigate the extent of impacts to groundwater quality in violation or
threatened violation of groundwater limitations, and (d) evaluate cleanup alternatives and
select a cost effective cleanup action for approval that achieves compliance and assures
sustained compliance with groundwater limitations.
The Discharger completed the tasks identified in the CDO, except for parts of Task 5
(evaluate, select, and propose cost-effective cleanup actions for sustained compliance with
· groundwater limitations). The Discharger failed to submit a cleanup proposal, but rather has
implemented several management practices intended to prevent further degradation of
groundwater, including increasing the land available for irrigation, and decreasing the amount
of effluent allowed to percolate. Rescission of the CDO is considered in a separate Order.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The Basin Plan indicates the greatest long-term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake Basin
is increasing salinity in groundwater, a process accelerated by man's activities and particularly
affected by intensive irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan recognizes that degradation is
unavoidable until there is a long-term solution to the salt imbalance. The Regional Water
Board encourages proactive management of waste streams by dischargers to control addition
of salt through use, and has established an incremental EC limitation of 500 µmhos/cm or a
1,000 µmhos/cm, as the measure of the maximum permissible addition of salt constituents
through use.
Discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwaters shall not exceed an EC of
1,000 µmhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or boron content of 1.0 mg/L.
Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, "Statement of
Policy With Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters in California," or "Antidegradation
Policy" require that waters of the State that are better in quality than established water quality
objectives be maintained "consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State."
Waters can be of high quality for some constituents or beneficial uses and not others. Policy
and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan. Degradation
of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents released with discharge from a
municipal wastewater utility after effective source control, treatment, and control is consistent
with maximum benefit to the people of the State. The technology, energy, water recycling,
and waste management advantages of municipal utility service far exceed any benefits
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2008-0034
CITY OF PORTERVILLE WWTF
TULARE COUNTY -4-
derived from a community otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater
systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less. Economic prosperity of
valley communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people of the State,
and therefore sufficient reason to accommodate growth and groundwater degradation
provided terms of the Basin Plan are met.
Constitutes of concern that have the potential to degrade groundwater include, in part,
nutrients and salts. However, the discharge will likely not degrade the beneficial uses of
groundwater because:
a. For nitrogen, shallow groundwater already contains nitrate concentrations in excess of
water quality objectives as a result of previous discharges and agricultural practices in
the area. The WDRs would include provisions requiring the Discharger to evaluate its
wastewater management practices and submit a comprehensive Wastewater
Management plan for the Reclamation Area intended to maximize the nitrogen utilization
of the crops and preclude further degradation of groundwater.
b. For salinity, the Basin Plan contains

===PLANNED CHANGES===

