wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 2, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds
shall not be less than 1. 0 mg/1.
4. The treatment and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year
return frequency.
5. Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities
are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and other acceptable alternatives .
. ~.,...~···
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
PRINCETON WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
8. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
nonirrigation season. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance
with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically to the lowest point of overflow).
9. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification 8.
C. Sludge Disposal: -4-
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes
shall be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15, Division 3,
Title 23, of the California Code of Regulations and approved by the Executive
Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice from a previously
approved practice shall be reported to the Executive Officer and U.S.
Environment! Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Administrator at least 90
days in advance of the change.
3. Use and Disposal of sewage shall comply with existing Federal and State laws
and regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards
included in 40 CFR 503.
If the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality
Control Boards are given the authority to implement regulations contained in
40 CFR 503, this Order may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time
schedules and technical standards. The Discharger must comply with the
standards and time schedules contained in 40 CFR 503 whether or not they
have been incorporated into this Order.
4. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual
issued by the Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice
for Landspreading of Sewage Sludge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
PRINCETON WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge shall not cause underlying ground water to: -5-
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than recei."ng
water limits, where specified below, or background water quality where na:
specified.
2. Contain chemicals, heavy metals, or trace elements in concentrations that
adversely affect beneficial uses or exceed maximum contaminant levels
specified in 22 CCR, Division 4, Chapter 15.
3. Exceed a most probable number of total coliform organisms of 2.2/100 ml
over any seven-day period.
4. Exceed concentrations of radionuclides specified in 22 CCR, Division 4,
Chapter 15.
5. Contain taste or odor-producing substances in concentrations that cause
nuisance or adversely affect beneficial uses.
6. Contain concentrations of chemical constituents in amounts that adversely
affect agricultural use.
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program lfo.
94-013, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered b;­
the Executive Officer.
2. The wastewater treatment/disposal plant shall be supervised and operated b;­
persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade in accordance with
California Code of Regulations, Title 23, Division 4, Chapter 14, and Stat;
Water Code Section 13627.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
PRINCETON WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY -6-
3. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements•, dated 1 March 1991, which
are anached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and
its incrvidual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s). •
4. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facili£es described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or
operaror of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be
immediately forwarded to this office.
5. At l=t 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement involving disposal or reclamation areas or off-site reuse of effluent,
used to justify the capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with this
Order, the Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of the situation and of
what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full compliance
with this Order.
6. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique
currer.tly available to comply with salinity limits specified in this order.
7. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including
timely submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the
Executive Officer. Violations may result in enforcement action, including
Regiooal Board or court orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil
moo~ liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.
8. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by
operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its
conte:Its.
9. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the
most current edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for
Cons:ruction Purposes". Other uses of reclaimed water not specifically
authorized herein shall be subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and
shall comply with 22 CCR, Division 4.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
PRINCETON WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
10. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements
when necessary. -7-
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true,
and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 28 January 1994.
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-013
FOR
PRINCETON WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established under direction of the Board's staff and a
description of the stations shall be attached to this Order.
Constituent
Flow
Constituent
Freeboa.rd
Color
Odors
Levee Condition INFLUENT MONITORING
Sample Type
gallons/ day meter
Feet POND MONITORING
Sample Type
Measure
observation
observation
observation
REPORTING Sample Freqµenc_y
continuous
Sample Frequency
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so tha1
the date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be
summarized in such a manner to illustrate clearly the compliance with waste discharge
requirements.
:Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Regional Boa.rd by the 20th day of the
following month.
Toe results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in
the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported to the Boa.rd.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
PRINCETON WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTE'.VATER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
Upon written request of the Board, the Discharger shall submit a report to the Board by -2-
30 January of each year. The report shall contain both tabular and graphical summaries of the
monitoring data obtained during the previous year. In addition, the Discharger shall discuss the
compliance record and the corrective actions taken or planned which may be needed to bring the
discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.
Ordered By:~(~JJ~JQ=. -=Jhi;z=-=·~~:..:.::,._­
WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
28 January 1994
(Date)
I '.
I
I
I
I
I
I l
I I
I
I ' ..
-i AtTACHMENT A
DIS'3ICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLAN~
COLUSA COUNTY
Section 19,TlBN,RlW,MDB&M
USGS 7.5 Min. Princeton Qi:.a.d.
Scale: 1 inch= 2000 feet
INFO~fATION SHEEI
PRINCErCN WATER WORKS DISTRICT
WASTEW..ITER TREATMENT PLANT
COLUSA COUNTY
The Princern Water Works D'.strict discharges approxiroareJ; lK..,260 gallons pa day (gpd)
of domestic wastewater to their treatment/ disposal facility. Toe facility was designed to treat
40,000 gpd and consists of an infulent pump station, a concrne lined aeration dirch and two
evaporation percolation ponds. The co=unity of Princeton is in the northeast of Colusa
County on :fie west bank of th! Sacramento River. The was:ew= treatroent/(fuposal
facility is m the southwest ed~ of town.
·.· ;__;;;