wastewater treatment and disposal system to serve all
four facilities.
3. The existing combined wastewater system serving Freemark Abbey Winery, Markham Winery
and Wine Country Inn is currently regulated under waste discharge requirements in Order No. 89-
054, adopted by the Board on April 19, 1989. The previously existing wastewater system
serving the Greystone facility, which was formerly a wine production facility, was regulated by
waste discharge requirements in Order No. 82-013, adopted by the Board on March 17,1982.
The purpose of this current Order is to prescribe updated waste discharge requirements for the
new combined wastewater system which serves all four facilities. This Order rescinds and
supersedes the existing Orders No. 89-054 and 82-013.
4. The Wine Country Inn is a 25-unit bed and breakfast facility located at ll52 Lodi Lane, St.
Helena, about one half mile north of the Markham Winery facility. Domestic wastewater collected
in a sump and pumped to the Markham ponds via an underground sewer line which is used jointly
with the Freemark Abbey Winery.
5. The Freemark Abbey Winery is located at 3022 St. Helena Highway, north of Lodi Lane,
adjacent to the Wine Country Inn property. The Freemark Abbey Winery complex includes
facilities for wine production (crushing, fermentation, aging, bottling and storage), wine tasting
and retail sales, two restaurants, a candle factory and gift shop, and rented office space. The
winery crushes 400 to 500 tons of grapes per year for production of up to about 80,000 gallons of
wine per year. Combined domestic and winery wastewater is pumped from the facilities directly
to the pond system located on the Markham property.
6. The Markham Winery is located at 2812 St. Helena Highway and includes wine production
(crushing, fermentation, aging, bottling and storage), wine tasting and retail sales facilities. The
winery has a permitted throughput of 2000 tons of grapes per year, for production of about
300,000 gallons of wine per year. Domestic and wastewater is discharged to the ponds onsite,
along with the process wastewater.
7. The Culinary Institute of America (CIA) facility is located at 100 South St. Helena Highway,
at the historic building and grounds known as Greystone Cellars. Greystone Cellars was formerly
a winery production facility owned and operated by the Christian Brothers. The facility was
purchased by CIA in 1992, and converted to a culinary education facility. The CIA facility
currently consists of culinary teaching facilities, restaurant, student and faculty lodging, etc.
8. The projected annual wastewater generation rates for the Dischargers'facilities described above
are tabulated below (in million gallons per year):
Domestic Winery Design Total
Wine Country Inn 0.675 A 0.675
Freemark Abbey Winery 2.00 0.50 2.50
Markham Winery 0.33 1.92 2.25
Culinary Institute-Greystone 5.42 A 5.42
Total 8.395 2.42 10.845
9. Collected wastewater from the above facilities is discharged into two ponds on Markham
Wnery property (No I and No. 2, see attached map). The ponds are equipped with two
mechanical aerators. The ponds are in series with the first pond supplying the majority of the
needed aeration and residence time. The ponds each have a total depth of about twelve feet.
With two feet of freeboard, the smaller pond has a storage volume of 2.6 million gallons, and the
larger pond has about 6.1 million gallons of storage capacity.
10. Pond effluent is pumped through a pressure sand filter prior to disinfection by chlorination.
Filtered, disinfected effluent is stored in either a steel irrigation tank or a two compartment
storage pond that has a volume of 3.ll million gallons. Water from the storage tank is filtered
and pumped to drip irrigation system on 7 .7 acres of vineyard. Water from the storage pond is
pumped to a drip irrigation system situated on 14.9 acres of vineyard. The drip irigation
vineyards are located adjacent and to the north and south of the wastewater ponds, on property
owned by the Freemark Abbey Winery and the Institute (see attached map).
ll. A set of two evaporation ponds were added to the system in 1993 to allow for contingent
disposal of water by evaporation. The ponds are located east of the treatment ponds, adjacent to
the Napa River, on property owned by the Institute. There is no discharge from the evaporation
ponds. These ponds are approximately 2.6 acres in size.
12. The drip irrigation area will be appropriately fenced to restrict public access and bermed to
prevent oFsite runoffof reclaimed water. A map showing the locations of the existing facilities
and the proposed drip inigation area is included as Attachment A of this Order.
13. Effluent will be applied to the vineyards at rates of about 4 to 6 inches per month during the
growing season, and no more than 2.4 inches per month during the dormant season (November
t-hrough February). Irrigation of the vineyards will be suspended at least 30 days prior to and
during harvest, in order to prevent contact with reclaimed water during harvest.
14. A water balance analysis of the treatment pond and drip irrigation system indicates that, with
proper operation and management, the system will have adequate capacity to handle the design
wastewater flows described in Finding 14 above, and direct precipitation of a l0-year reculrence
interval rainfall record.
15. The Dischargers developed an easement agreement, with Markham Winery at the owner of
the ponds and Freemark Abbey Winery and Wine Country Inn and Culinary Institute as
dischargers of wastewater to the system.
16. A residence which is served by a domestic water supply well is located among the vineyards
to the north of the drip inigation field. A minimum setback distance of 100 feet will be
maintained between the drip irrigation field and the domestic water well.
17. A l2-inch diameter water main, which is buried at least three feet below the ground surface,
traverses the eastern portion of the drip inigation are4 in a north-south direction. This pipe
transports potable water to the City of Calistoga. A minimum setback distance of 20 feet will be
maintained between areas inigated with reclaimed water and the line of this water supply main.
18. Solid waste produced at the Freemark Abbey Winery and the Markham Winery from wine
production operations, consisting primarily of pomace, seeds and stems, will be spread and disked
into the soils on approximately 10.5 acres of vineyard owned by Freemark Abbey Winery' These
solid wastes would be produced at an estimated rate of about 325 tons (about 320 cubic yards)
per year, at the wineries'ultimate capacity. Septic and settling tank solids will be pumped out by
a licensed septic tank service and hauled away for disposal at an authorized site.
19. The Board adopted a revised Water Quality Control Plan for the San Francisco Bay Basin
(Basin Plan) on June 21, 1995. This updated and consolidated plan represents the Board's master
water quality control planning document. The revised Basin Plan was approved by the State
Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) and the Ofiice of Administrative Law on luly 20,
1995 and November 13, 1995, respectively. A summary of the regulatory provisions is contained
in Title 23 of the California Code of Regulations, Section 3912. The Basin Plan identifies
beneficial uses and water quality objectives for waters of the state in the Region, including surface
waters and groundwaters. The Basin Plan also identifies