FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The treatment plant is located on Canyon Lake
Drive in Port Costa. It provides secondary treatment of wastewater from
domestic and, to a lesser extent, commercial sources within the Port Costa
community. The Facility serves a population of approximately 250.
The District has a service agreement with Valley Operators for the operations
and maintenance of the treatment plant .
2.1.2 Collection System . The collecti on system serves 86 properties in Port Costa .
The system has a length of less than 1.5 miles and is mostly comprised of terra -
cotta pipe. A contractor ( currently L. R. Paulsell) provides sewer maintenance
and repair services, CCTV inspection services, and emergency response
services. The Discharger’s wastewater collection and conveyance system is
covered under the Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements General Order for
Sanitary Sewer Systems ( Order WQ 2022 -0103 -DWQ ).
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The treatment plant has a dry weather design
treatment capacity of 33,000 gallons per day (0.033 MGD). Wastewater is
conveyed by gravity to an 86,000 -gallon capacity, baffled septic tank where
primary sedimentation occurs. Primary -treated effluent flows by gravity to a wet
well, where it mixes with circulating wastewater from sand/gravel filter beds.
After mixing, wastewater is pumped to a dosing structure, which distributes the
wastewater to the sand/gravel filter beds. A p ortion of the filtered wastewater is
routed back to the wet well to mix with primary -treated septic tank effluent at a
ratio of approximately four parts filtered wastewater to one -part septic tank
effluent . The remaining filtered wastewater flows over a V -notch weir into a
contact chamber, where it is chlorinated and then dechlorinated with sodium
metabisulfite . Attachment C of this Order contains a treatment process
schematic diagram.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Settled sludge in the septic tank is
removed as needed, based on regularly profiled accumulation levels, and
hauled off -site for disposal. The septic tank was last pumped in February 2020
and 220 tons of dewatered sludge were disposed of at Potrero Hills Landfill.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater at the treatment p lant and pump
stations is collected and directed to the plant’s headworks for treatment;
therefore, no stormwater discharge requirements are necessary .
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger does not have a recycle d water
program due to its small discharge volume and the distance between the
treatment plant and potential users .
Crockett Community Services District Order R2 -2024-0009
Port Costa Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 37885


ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6 2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . The Discharger does not have any planned changes that will
significantly affect its treatment process .
2.6. Sea Level Rise . In a July 2021, response to a Regional Water Board climate
change questionnaire, the Discharger determined that the F acility is not within the
100-year flood plain and that sea level rise is not expected to influence operation s
before 2050 because of its elevation .
3.