Wet Weather Facilities NPDES Permit CA003 8440
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6persist and exceed the onsite storage capacity, the WWF provides treatment
consisting of coarse screens, bar screens, grit chambers, and
sedimentation/disinfection basins.
The San Antonio Creek WWF provides treatment for peak wet weather flows
diverted from the South Interceptor. Treatment consists of fine screening,
settling basins, and disinfection.
The Oakport WWF provides storage and treatment for peak wet weather flows
diverted from the South Interceptor. If influent flows persist and exceed the
on-site storage capacity, the WWF provides treatment consisting of coarse
screens and sedimentation/disinfection basins.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Material captured in the screening
process is disposed of in a permitted landfill. Any grit and sludge removed at
the grit chambers and sedimentation basins is returned to the interceptor
system for treatment at the Discharger’s Main Wastewater Treatment P lant.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater at the WWFs is collected and
directed to the facility’s headworks for treatment or transport through the
interceptor system; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not supplemented
5.7. Anticipated Noncompliance – Not supplemented
5.8. Other Noncompliance – Not supplemented
5.9. Other Information – Not supplemented
6. STANDARD PROVISIONS – ENFORCEMENT – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
8. DEFINITIONS – ADDITION TO ATTACHMENT D
More definitions can be found in Attachment A of this NPDES Permit.
8.1. Arithmetic Calculations
8.1.1. Geometric Mean. The antilog of the log mean or the back -transformed mean of
the logarithmically transformed variables, which is equivalent to the
multiplication of the antilogarithms. The geometric mean can be calculated with
either of the following equations:
Geometric Mean = Anti log (1/N ∑ Log C i)
or
Geometric Mean = (C 1 x C2 x … x CN)1/N
Where “N” is the number of data points for the period analyzed and “C” is the
concentration for each of the “N” data points.
8.1.2 . Mass Emission Rate. The rate of discharge expressed in mass. The mass
emission rate is obtained from the following calculation for any calendar day:

East Bay Municipal Utility District, Special District No.1 Order R2 -2025-0006
Wet Weather Facilities NPDES Permit CA003 8440