FACILITY DE SCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 800
San Pablo Avenue in Rodeo. It provides secondary treatment of domestic and
commercial wastewater for Rodeo and Tormey, whi ch are unincorporated areas
of Contra Costa County. The Facility serves a population of about 10,500
people. Attachment B shows a map of the area around the Facility .
2.1.2 Collection System . The collection system is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 27 miles of pipes and two pump stations.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The wastewater treatment process consists of
comminutors at the influent pump station, fine screening, aerated grit removal,
primary clarification, activated s ludge biological treatment, secondary
clarification, disinfection with sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using
sodium bisulfite . The treatment plant has an average daily treatment capacity of
up to 1.14 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet we ather capacity of
3.4 MGD (peak one -hour average flow). From November 20 20 through October
2021, the plant treated a n overall daily average of 0. 54 MGD and a single day
maximum average of 3.0 MGD. Attachment C provides the treatment plant flow
schematic.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary and
secondary sludge with a rotary drum thickener, treats the combined sludge with
anaerobic digestion, and dewaters the combined sludge with a centrifuge and
then drying beds. Biosolid s are currently hauled to the Potrero Hills Landfill in
Suisun City for use as alternative daily cover . The Discharger is considering
composting and land application of biosolids for future disposal practices.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . The Discharger has planned a series of plant improvements
through its Comprehensive Energy and Infrastructure Upgrade Project. The
projects will target the f ollowing areas:
·Aeration Basin : Replacement of aging diffusers with diffusers that provide an
optimum combination of diffuser efficiency, submergence, basin coverage, and
capital cost. Installation of Hach combination ammonia and nitrate sensors to
simultaneously track ammonia and nitrate concentrations and provide
additional data on nitrification.
·Control of Wasting Operations : Conversion from manual pump operation of
waste activated sludge (WAS) to the dewatering system to a continuous /
automated wasting system process.
·Biosolids Processing : Replacement of the current centrifuge with a screw
press, which is expected to reduce operation intervention and maintenance
costs, produce more consistent percent solids, and serve as a backup method
to dewat ering. This will allow for the existing drying beds to be
decommissioned and used for solar photovoltaic generation in the future.
Additionally, a thermal dryer is currently in design and is expected to be
installed along with the screw press.
·Effluent Pum ps: The Discharger is planning to use battery storage to exercise
its pumps to avoid instantaneous power draw from the grid .
Rodeo Sanitary District Orde r R2-2022 -0037
Rodeo Sanitary District Water Pollution Control Facility NPDES Permit CA0037 826
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-10These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board
authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes .
3.