A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Location and Service Area . The Facility serves eastern San Francisco and portions of Brisbane
and Daly City (served by the City of Brisbane, the Bayshore Sanitary District, and the North
San Mateo County Sanitation District ). The service area population is approximately 580,000.
 The Southeast Plant is located on Phelps S treet at Jarrold Avenue near the Islais Creek Channel .
It provides primary and secondary treatment of combined wastewater and stormwater . The
North Point Facility is located on Bay Street near The Embarcadero . It provides primary
treatment of combined wastewater and stormwater during wet weather . The Bayside Wet
Weather Facilities are located throughout the eastern side of San Francisco , primarily near the
shore . They provide equivalent -to-primary treatment during wet weather.
2. Collection System. The collection system is primarily a combined sewer system that conveys
wastewater and stormwater to the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and Bayside Wet
Weather Facilities . It consists of approximately 600 miles of pipe , and 7 major and 11 minor
pump stations. S eparate sanitary and storm drains serve i solated areas , includ ing parts of
Candlestick Point and Mission Bay . The Facility also receives wastewater from th ree satellite
wastewater collection systems : the Bayshore Sanitary District (portions of Brisbane and Daly
City) , the City of Brisbane (residential sector) , and the North San Mateo County Sanitation
District (portion s of Daly City) . For the purposes of this Order, t he Facility does not include the
satellite collection systems.
City and County of San Francisco ORDER No. R2-2013- 0029
Southeast Water Pollution Contr ol Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, NPDES No. CA0037664
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities, and Wastewater Collection System


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5 3. Wastewater Treatment . The Discharger operat es the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities to maximize treatment.
a. Southeast Plant. During dry weather , the Southeast Plant provides secondary wastewater
treatment. The treatment processes include a headworks (with coarse and fine bar
screens , and grit removal), primary sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen aeration basins,
secondary clarifiers , and chlorine contact basins (for chlorination using sodium
hypochlorite and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite ). These processes are shown in
the diagram in Attachment C. The Southeast Plant has a dry weather design capacity of
85.4 MGD. From June 2010 through August 2012, its average dry weather flow was
58 MGD.
 During wet weather , the Southeast Plant process es up to 250 MGD of combined
wastewater (i.e., sewage, industrial wastewater, and stormwater ). Up to 150 MGD
receives both primary and secondary treatment ; the remaining flow (up to 100 MGD)
receives only primary treatment. The entire volume is disinfected prior to discharge.
 b. North Point Facility. The North Point Facility discharges only during wet weather and
provides primary treatment of com bined wastewater . The treatment consists of bar
screens, sedimentation tanks equipped with skimmers (clarification, removal of floatables), sodium hypochlorite injection , and dechlorination using sodium bisulf ite
addition. The North Point Facility can provid e primary treatment for up to 150 MGD of
combined wastewater . The entire volume of treated wastewater is disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge. S olids are directed to the Southeast Plant for digestion.

 The North Point Facility discharges under the following circumstances:
• the North Shore Storage/Transport Box is at 200 inches ;
• within 60 minutes of a ny combined sewer discharge through Discharge Point Nos.
013 through 017; or
• as necessary to minimize the likelihood of combined sewer dischar ges in the Central
and Southeast Drainage Basins.
 c. Bayside Wet Weather Facilities. During dry weather, s torage/ transport s tructures
transport wastewater to the Southeast Plant . During wet weather , these structures transfer
combined wastewater to the Southeast Plant and, if necessary, the North Point Facility .
They also provide storage for more than 120 million gallons of combined wastewater . In
the event that the capacit ies of the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and
storage /transport structures are exceeded, the combined wastewater receives the
equivalent of primary treatment in the storage/ transport structures and is discharged to
San Francisco Bay through any one of 29 shoreline combined sewer discharge structures.
The treatment in the s torage /transport s tructures consists of settling solids with a series of
baffles and weirs that also remove floatable materials prior to discharge. This process
equates to the minimum treatment specified in U.S. EPA’s Combined Sewer Overflow
Control Policy (see Fact Sheet section III.C.8 ). After the wet weather is over, wastewater
and accumulated solids remaining in the storage/transport structures are sent to the
Southeast Plant for secondary treatment .

City and County of San Francisco ORDER No. R2-2013- 0029
Southeast Water Pollution Contr ol Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, NPDES No. CA0037664
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities, and Wastewater Collection System


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity belt
thickeners for waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters , and horizontal
bowl centrifuges for dewatering. After digestion, the sludge is conditioned with ferric chloride
and polymer , dewatered, and stored in cake hoppers for hauling. The digested and dewatered
biosolids are beneficially used at a permitted land fill or land -applied at a permitted site.
A portion of the biosolids is blended with green waste to create Class A compost. Class B
biosolids are land- applied on farms in Solano and Sonoma c ounties or used at a landfill.
B. Discharge Point s and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has started several infrastructure projects. In October 2012, the Discharger began
the Southeast Plant Northside Facility Reliability Upgrade (Phase 2) project, which is an
$11.5- million project to replace aging secondary sludge handlers and aeration -related electrical
system s and to modif y the secondary clarifi cation process . The project is expected to be completed
in August 2014. The Discharger began an Oxygen Generation Plant Replacement project in
December 2012 and plans to complete th is $12-million project in December 2013. The Discharger
began dewatering facility c orrosion repairs in August 2012, a $9.1- million project to address
corrosion damage to concrete, the sludge piping network, and the electrical system at the s ludge
dewatering building. This project is expected to be complete d in January 2014. The Discharger is
also designing a project to begin in August 2013 to replace and relocate the so dium hypochlorite
storage tanks for disinfection.
The Discharger’s Sewer System Improvement Program is a three- phase, $6.9- billion effort over the
next 20 years to address deficiencies , improve operational flexibility, provide seismic reliability, and
ensure future compliance with anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. The program will
address aging infrastructure and technologies at the treatment plants and increase the ability of the
collect ion system to convey wastewater.
III. APPLICABLE PLAN S, POLICIES, AND REG ULATIONS
The requirements in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described below :
A. Legal Authorities
 This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with § 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and implementing regulations adopted by U.S. EPA, and Water Code chapter 5.5, division 7 (commencing with § 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point source
discharg es from this facility to surface waters.
B. California Environmental Quality Act
 Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code division 13, chapter 3 (commencing with § 21100).
C. State and Federal Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Regional Water Board adopted the Water Quality Control
Plan for the San Francisco Bay Basin (Basin Plan) , which designates beneficial uses,
establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan. In addition, this Order is consistent with State Water Board
Resolution No. 88- 63, which established S tate policy that all waters, with certain exceptions,
City and County of San Francisco ORDER No. R2-2013- 0029
Southeast Water Pollution Contr ol Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, NPDES No. CA0037664
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities, and Wastewater Collection System


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-13 should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Because of the marine influ ence on San Francisco Bay, total dissolved solids levels exceed
3,000 mg/L ; therefore, San Francisco Bay meet s an exception to State Water Board
Resolution No. 88- 63.
 Beneficial uses for the