FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The Discharger was formed under a Joint Powers
Agreement in 1979 and is comprised of six member agencies: Almonte Sanitary
District, Alto Sanitary District, Homestead Valley Sanitary District, City of Mill
Valley, Richardson Bay Sanitary District, and Tamalpais Community Services
District. The Discharger owns and operates the treatment plant and its
associated wastewater collection and conveyance system. The treatment plant,
located within the City of Mill Valley at 450 Sycamore Avenue , provides
secondary treatment of domestic wastewater for its six member agencies. The
service area population is approximately 29,000. Attachment B provides a map
of the area aro und the Facility.
2.1.2 Collection System . The Discharger owns and operates sewer pipelines that
collect and convey wastewater from the member agencies’ satellite collection
systems to the treatment plant. The Discharger’s conveyance system consists
of approximately 3.5 miles of force mains, 5.5 mi les of gravity lines, and six
pump stations. Under agreement with the City of Mill Valley, the Discharger
operates two lift stations within the Mill Valley service area (i.e., the Frontage
Road Lift Station and Shelter Bay Lift Sta tion). Each satellite collection system
is owned and operated independently from the Discharger and collects
wastewater from its respective service area. These collection systems, and the
Discharger’s wastewater collection and conveyance system, are covere d under
the Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements General Order for Sanitary
Sewer Systems ( Order WQ 2022 -0103 -DWQ ).
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The treatment plant has a dry weather design capacity
of 3.6 million gallons per day (MGD) and can treat up to 24.7 MGD during wet
weather (based on equalized flow capacity of the treatment plant) when the
influent concentration of organic matter is lower. From May 1, 20 20, through
April 30, 20 23, the average daily flow was 2. 5 MGD and the maximum daily flow
was 30 MGD. The wastewater treatment process consists of screening, grit
removal, flow equalization, primary sedimentation , biological treatment (trickling
filters), secondary clarification, disinfection (chlorination), gravity thickening, and
solids digestion and dewatering. Chlorine contact is accomplished in the
effluent force main, which is approximately 6.5 miles long, a nd dechlorination is
accomplished by sodium bisulfite addition at Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin
County (Tiburon) prior to discharge. Attachment C of this Order contains a
treatment process schematic diagram.
During wet weather, when primary -treated flows exceed the plant’s biological
treatment capacity of 24.7 MGD and all onsite storage is used, the effluent from
the primary clarifiers may bypass the trickling filters and secondary clarifiers
and mix with biol ogically -treated effluent before disinfection and discharge. The
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6tank holding primary effluent (the recirculation wet well) and tank holding
biologically -treated effluent (the effluent wet well) lay side -by-side. The wall that
separates the two has ports running its length at a height of 13.0 feet. When the
water level in the recirculation wet well rises above the 13.0 feet, primary
effluent flows into the effluent wet well and blending occurs. Blending prevents
a washout of microbial populations in that system and prevents sewer backups.
Blending is subject to Discharge Prohibition 3.3, Attachment D section 1.7 (see
Fact Sheet section 4.1.3), and Provision 6.3.5.3.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Solids removed from the wastewater
stream are treated by gravity thickening, primary and secondary digestion, and
dewatering by belt filter press. Dewatered biosolids are sent to the Redwood
Sanitary Landfill in Novato, where they are composted with yard w aste and
used for daily cover. The Discharger currently generates and disposes of about
251 dry tons of biosolids per year.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . The wastewater treatment plant headworks
receives drainage from the area in front of the solids handling units (i.e., belt
filter press, grit and screening, chemical feed room) and the area surrounding
the dump station for septic haulers. The remaining sto rm drains at the treatment
plant are not connected to the headworks. The Discharger is covered under the
State Water Board’s statewide industrial stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES
General Permit CAS000001) for stormwater runoff f rom areas that do not drain
to the headworks.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger’s water recycling facility provides
additional treatment of the wastewater treatment plant produced secondary
effluent via coagulation, sand filtration, and chorine disinfection. The Discharger
currently recycles wastewater under the Regiona l Water Board General Water
Reuse Requirements for Municipal Wastewater and Water Agencies
Order 96-011, although expects to transition its coverage to the State Water
Board General Water Reclamation Requirements for Recyc led Water Use
Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW during the next permit term. An average of
0.03 MGD of d isinfected tertiary treated recycled water is typically provided for
landscape irrigation and environmental enhancement (about 7 MG/year
between April and November ). The Discharger also distributes disinfected
secondary -23 treated recycled water via their commercial truck fill station for
sanitary sewer system cleaning uses.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. PLANNED CHANGES – NOT SUPPLEMENTED ................................ ................................ ...................... G-16
5.7. ANTICIPATED NONCOMPLIANCE – NOT SUPPLEMENTED ................................ ................................ .... G-16
5.8. OTHER NONCOMPLIANCE – NOT SUPPLEMENTED ................................ ................................ .............. G-16
5.9. OTHER INFORMATION – NOT SUPPLEMENTED ................................ ................................ .................... G-16
6. STANDARD PROVISIONS – ENFORCEMENT – NOT SUPPLEMENTED ...................... G-16
7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS – NOT SUPPLEMENTED ..... G-16
8. DEFINITIONS – ADDITION TO ATTACHMENT D ................................ ............................... G-16
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-2ATTACHMENT G – REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS,
AND MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
(SUPPLEMENT TO ATTACHMENT D)
APPLICABILITY
This document supplements the requirements of Federal Standard Provisions
(Attachment D). For clarity, these provisions are arranged using to the same headings
as those used in Attachment D.
1. STANDARD PROVISIONS – PERMIT COMPLIANCE
1.1. Duty to Comply – Not Supplemented
1.2. Need to Halt or Reduce Activity Not a Defense – Not Supplemented
1.3. Duty to Mitigate – Supplement to Attachment D, Provision 1.3.
1.3.1. Contingency Plan. The Discharger shall maintain a Contingency Plan as
prudent in accordance with current facility emergency planning. The
Contingency Plan shall describe procedures to ensure that existing facilities
remain in, or are rapidly returned to, operation in the e vent of a process failure
or emergency incident, such as employee strike, strike by suppliers of
chemicals or maintenance services, power outage, vandalism, earthquake, or
fire. The Discharger may combine the Contingency Plan and Spill Prevention
Plan (see Provision 1.3.2, below) into one document. In accordance with
Regional Water Board Resolution No. 74 -10, discharge in violation of the permit
where the Discharger has failed to develop and implement a Contingency Plan
as described below may be the basis for considering the discharge a willful and
negligent violation of the permit pursuant to California Water Code section
13387. The Contingency Plan shall, at a minimum, provide for the following:
1.3.1.1 . Sufficient personnel for continued facility operation and maintenance during
employee strikes or strikes against contractors providing services;
1.3.1.2 . Maintenance of adequate chemicals or other supplies, and spare parts
necessary for continued facility operations;
1.3.1.3 . Emergency standby power;
1.3.1.4 . Protection against vandalism;
1.3.1.5 . Expeditious action to repair failures of, or damage to, equipment, including
any sewer lines;
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-31.3.1.6 . Reporting of spills and discharges of untreated or inadequately treated
wastes, including measures taken to clean up the effects of such discharges;
and
1.3.1.7 . Maintenance, replacement, and surveillance of physical condition of
equipment and facilities, including any sewer lines.
1.3.2. Spill Prevention Plan. The Discharger shall maintain a Spill Prevention Plan to
prevent accidental discharges and to minimize the effects of any such
discharges. The Spill Prevention Plan shall do the following:
1.3.2.1 . Identify the possible sources of accidental discharge, untreated or partially -
treated waste bypass, and polluted drainage;
1.3.2.2. State when current facilities and procedures became operational and
evaluate their effectiveness; and
1.3.2.3. Predict the effectiveness of any proposed facilities and procedures and
provide an implementation schedule with interim and final dates when the
proposed facilities and procedures will be constructed, implemented, or
operational.
1.4. Proper Operation and Maintenance – Supplement to Attachment D,
Provision 1.4
1.4.1. Operation and Maintenance Manual. The Discharger shall maintain an
Operation and Maintenance Manual to provide the plant and regulatory
personnel with a source of information describing all equipment, recommended
operational strategies, process control monitoring, and maintenance activiti es.
To remain a useful and relevant document, the Operation and Maintenance
Manual shall be kept updated to reflect significant changes in treatment facility
equipment and operational practices. The Operation and Mai ntenance Manual
shall be maintained in usable condition and be available for reference and use
by all relevant personnel and Regional Water Board staff.
1.4.2. Wastewater Facilities Status Report. The Discharger shall maintain a
Wastewater Facilities Status Report and regularly review, revise, or update it,
as necessary. This report shall document how the Discharger operates and
maintains its wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilitie s to ensure
that all facilities are adequately staffed, supervised, financed, operated,
maintained, repaired, and upgraded as necessary to provide adequate and
reliable transport, treatment, and disposal of all wastewater from both existing
and planned fut ure wastewater sources under the Discharger’s service
responsibilities.
1.4.3. Proper Supervision and Operation of Publicly -Owned Treatment Works
(POTWs). POTWs shall be supervised and operated by persons possessing
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-4certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to Title 23, section 3680, of the
California Code of Regulations.
1.5. Property Rights – Not Supplemented
1.6. Inspection and Entry – Not Supplemented
1.7. Bypass – Not Supplemented
1.8. Upset – Not Supplemented
1.9. Other – Addition to Attachment D
1.9.1. Neither the treatment nor the discharge of pollutants shall create pollution,
contamination, or nuisance as defined by California Water Code section 13050.
1.9.2. Collection, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be operated in a
manner that precludes public contact with wastewater. If public contact with
wastewater could reasonably occur on public property, warning signs shall be
posted.
1.9.3. If the Discharger submits a timely and complete Report of Waste Discharge for
permit reissuance, this permit shall continue in force and effect until the permit
is reissued or the Regional Water Board rescinds the permit.
2. STANDARD PROVISIONS – PERMIT ACTION – NOT SUPPLEMENTED
3. STANDARD PROVISIONS – MONITORING
3.1. Sampling and Analyses – Supplement to Attachment D, Provisions 3.1 and 3.2
3.1.1. Certified Laboratories. Water and waste analyses shall be performed by a
laboratory certified for these analyses in accordance with California Water Code
section 13176.
3.1.2. Minimum Levels. For the 126 priority pollutants, the Discharger should use the
analytical methods listed in Table B unless the Monitoring and Reporting
Program (MRP, Attachment E) requires a particular method or minimum level
(ML). All monitoring instruments and equipmen t shall be properly calibrated and
maintained to ensure accuracy of measurements.
3.1.3. Monitoring Frequency. The MRP specifies the minimum sampling and
analysis schedule.
3.1.3.1 . Sample Collection Timing
3.1.3.1.1 . The Discharger shall collect influent samples on varying days selected at
random and shall not include any plant recirculation or other sidestream
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-5wastes, unless otherwise stipulated in the MRP. The Executive Officer
may approve an alternative influent sampling plan if it is representative of
plant influent and complies with all other permit requirements.
3.1.3.1.2 . The Discharger shall collect effluent samples on days coincident with
influent sampling, unless otherwise stipulated by the MRP. If influent
sampling is not required, the Discharger shall collect effluent samples on
varying days selected at random, unles s otherwise stipulated in the MRP.
The Executive Officer may approve an alternative effluent sampling plan if
it is representative of plant discharge and in compliance with all other
permit requirements.
3.1.3.1.3 . The Discharger shall collect effluent grab samples during periods of
daytime maximum peak flows (or peak flows through secondary treatment
units for facilities that recycle effluent).
3.1.3.1.4 . Effluent sampling for conventional pollutants shall occur on at least one
day of any multiple -day bioassay the MRP requires. During the course of
the bioassay, on at least one day, the Discharger shall collect and retain
samples of the discharge. In the event that a bioassay result does not
comply with effluent limitations, the Discharger shall analyze the retained
samples for pollutants that could be toxic to aquatic life and for which it
has effluent limitations.
3.1.3.1.4.1. The Discharger shall perform bioassays on final effluent samples; when
chlorine is used for disinfection, bioassays shall be performed on
effluent after chlorination and dechlorination; and
3.1.3.1.4.2. The Discharger shall analyze for total ammonia nitrogen and calculate
the amount of un ionized ammonia whenever test results fail to meet
effluent limitations.
3.1.3.2. Conditions Triggering Accelerated Monitoring
3.1.3.2.1. Average Monthly Effluent Limitation Exceedance. If the results from
two consecutive samples of a constituent monitored in a particular month
exceed the average monthly effluent limitation for any parameter (or if the
required sampling frequency is once per month or less and the monthly
sample exceeds t he average monthly effluent limitation), the Discharger
shall, within 24 hours after the results are received, increase its sampling
frequency to daily until the results from the additional sampling show that
the parameter complies with the average monthly effluent limitation.
3.1.3.2.2. Maximum Daily Effluent Limitation Exceedance. If a sample result
exceeds a maximum daily effluent limitation, the Discharger shall, within
24 hours after the result is received, increase its sampling frequency to
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-6daily until the results from two samples collected on consecutive days
show compliance with the maximum daily effluent limitation.
3.1.3.2.3. Acute Toxicity. If final or intermediate results of an acute bioassay
indicate a violation or threatened violation (e.g., the percentage of
surviving test organisms of any single acute bioassay is less than
70 percent), the Discharger shall initiate a new test as soon as practical or
as described in applicable State Water Board plan provisions that become
effective after adoption of these Regional Standard Provisions. The
Discharger shall investigate the cause o f the mortalities and report its
findings in the next self -monitoring report.
3.1.3.2.4. Chlorine. The Discharger shall calibrate chlorine residual analyzers
against grab samples as frequently as necessary to maintain accurate
control and reliable operation. If an effluent violation is detected, the
Discharger shall collect grab samples at least every 30 minutes until
compliance with the limitation is achieved, unless the Discharger monitors
chlorine residual continuously. In such cases, the Discharger shall
continue to conduct continuous monitoring.
3.1.3.2.5. Bypass. Except as indicated below, if a Discharger bypasses any portion
of its treatment facility, it shall monitor flows and collect samples at
affected discharge points and analyze samples for all constituents with
effluent limitations on a daily basis for the duration of the bypass. The
Discharger need not accelerate chronic toxicity monitoring. The
Discharger also need not collect and analyze samples for mercury, dioxin -
TEQ, and PCBs after the first day of the bypass. The Discharger may
satisfy the accelerated acute toxicity monitoring requirement by
conducting a flow -through test or static renewal test that captures the
duration of the bypass (regardless of the method specified in the MRP).
If bypassing disinfection units only, the Discharger shall only monitor
bacteria indicators daily.
3.1.3.2.5.1. Bypass for Essential Maintenance. If a Discharger bypasses a
treatment unit for essential maintenance pursuant to Attachment D
section 1.7.2, the Executive Officer may reduce the accelerated
monitoring requirements above if the Discharger (i) monitors effluent at
affected discharge points on the first day of the bypass for all
constituents with effluent limitations, except chronic toxicity; and
(ii) identifies and implements measures to ensure that the bypass will
continue to comply with efflue nt limitations.
3.1.3.2.5.2. Approved Wet Weather Bypasses. If a Discharger bypasses a
treatment unit or permitted outfall during wet weather with Executive
Officer approval pursuant to Attachment D section 1.7.4, the Discharger
shall monitor flows and collect and retain samples for affected
Sewerage Agency of Southern Marin Order R2 -2023-0021
Wastewater Treatment Plan t NPDES Permit CA0037 711
ATTACHMENT G — REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS G-7discharge points on a daily basis for the duration of the bypass. The
Discharger shall analyze daily for TSS using 24 hour composites
(or more frequent increments) and for bacteria indicators with effluent
limitations using grab samples. If TSS exceeds 45 mg/L in any
composite sample, the Discharger shall also analyze daily the retained
samples for all other constituents with effluent limita tions, except oil and
grease, mercury, PCBs, dioxin -TEQ, and acute and chronic toxicity.
Additionally, at least once e ach year, the Discharger shall analyze the
retained samples for one approved bypass for all other constituents
with effluent limitations, except oil and grease, mercury, PCBs, dioxin -
TEQ, and acute and chronic toxicity. This monitoring shall be in addition
to the minimum monitoring specified in the MRP.
3.2. Standard Observations – Addition to Attachment D
3.2.1.