FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 2001
Paradise Drive in Tiburon. It provides secondary treatment of domestic and
commercial wastewater for the City of Belvedere, the Town of Tiburon, and
unincorporated areas of the Tiburon Peninsula . The Facility serves a population
of about 8,400.
2.1.2 Collection System . The collection system for the wastewater treatment plant is
entirely under the Discharger’s jurisdiction, totaling approximately 31 miles of
collection system and 22 pump stations (13 in the City of Belvedere and 9 in the
Town of Tiburon).
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The plant can provide biological treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 0.98 million gallons per day (MGD).
During the dry season (May 1 to October 31) from 2018 to 2022, the plant
treated an average daily dry weather flow of 0.56 MGD. The treatment process
consists of raw influent grinding, primary clarification, activated sludge aeration,
secondary clarificatio n, sodium hypochlorite disinfection, and sodium bisulfite
dechlorination. The plant also has onsite storage consisting of an additional
primary clarifier, an offline aeration basin, and a surge tank, totaling over
315,000 gallons.
The plant can provide b iological treatment for up to 2.3 MGD during wet
weather when influent flows to the plant are more diluted. During periods of
heavy rain , when influent flow exceed s the plant’s biological treatment capacity
of 2.3 MGD and all onsite storage is used, the pl ant routes the portion of flows
above 2.3 MGD from its primary clarifiers directly to its sodium hypochlorite
disinfection tank (bypassing activated sludge aeration and secondary
clarification) where it is blended with biologically treated effluent and
dechlorinated prior to discharge. Any primary treated flows stored onsite are
routed back to the headworks for full treatment. Such bypasses, or blending
events , are necessary at times to prevent washout of microbial populations in
the biological treatment un its. Bypasses of biological treatment are subject to
Discharge Prohibition 3.2, Attachment D section 1.7 (see Fact Sheet section
4.1.1.2 ), and Provision 6.3.5.1 .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger treats sludge with
mesophilic anaerobic digesters (producing Class B biosolids), thickens the
treated biosolids with a rotary drum, and dewaters the thickened sludge using a
screw press. The Discharger hauls the dewatered, treated biosolids to a landfill
for beneficial reuse .
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County Order R2-2023-0018
Sanitary District No. 5 Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037753
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.1.6. Recy cled Water Activities . The Discharger investigated the feasibility of
recycling its wastewater, which was found infeasible based on the current
demand. The Discharger will consider evaluating the feasibility of recycling its
wastewater in the future.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . The Discharger is not planning significant changes for th is
Order term.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities . This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code
article 4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with § 13260). This Order is also
issued pursuan t to federal Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA , and Water Code chapter 5.5, division 7
(commencing with § 13370). It serve s as an NPDES permit authorizing the
Discharger to discharge into waters of the U nited States at the discharge location
described in Table 1 subject to the WDRs in this Order.
3.2. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) . Under Water Code section
13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Public Resources Code division 13,
chapter 3 (commencing with § 21100) .
3.3. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
3.3.1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Regional Water Board adopted the Water
Quality Control Plan for the San Francisco Bay Basin (Basin Plan), which
designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve those objecti ves for all waters
addressed through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin
Plan. In addition, this Order implements State Water Board Resolution 88 -63,
which establishe d State policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply.
Because of the marine influence on Central San Francisco Bay, total dissolved
solids exceed 3,000 mg/L; therefore , Central San Francisco Bay meets an
exception to State Water Board Resolution 88 -63. Beneficial uses applicable to
Raccoon Strait in Central San Francisco Bay are as follows :
Sanitary District No. 5 of Marin County Order R2-2023-0018
Sanitary District No. 5 Main Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037753
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-11Table F -5. Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point