average daily dry weather design flow of 53.8 million gallons per day (MGD).
From May 2020 through April 2021, the average d aily influent flow was
34.2 MGD. The wastewater treatment process consists of screening, grit
removal, primary clarification, secondary biological treatment, secondary
clarification, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Attachment C shows a flow
process diag ram for the Facility.
The Facility also has holding basins with a combined capacity of 168 million
gallons. The Discharger uses these holding basins to temporarily store peak
wet weather flows when primary -treated wastewater exceeds the secondary
treatment capacity. When flows subside, the Discharger routes stored
wastewater back to the headworks for full primary and secondary treatment.
2.1.4. Recycled Water . From 2017 through 2020, the Discharger annually diverted,
on average, approximately 5 percent of its total effluent, or 533 million gallons,
to its Recycling Plant. The Recycling Plant further treats the UV -disinfected
effluent with sand/anthracite filtration and sodium hypochlorite disinfection and
stores recycled water in a covered seven -million -gallon reservoir prior to
distribution. The Discharger uses about two -thirds of the recycled water
produced for washdown operations at the wastewater treatment plant and
distributes the remaining recycled water offsite, primarily for landscape
irrigation. Irri gation customers include schools, parks, corporation yards,
landscape medians, and commercial businesses. Light industrial uses include a
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District Order R2 -2022-0020
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 648
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6soil amendment company and a concrete recycling and batch plant. In 2014,
the Discharger added a Residential Fill Stat ion to provide recycled water access
to residential customers for hand -watering lawns, landscaping, and gardens.
State Water Board Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW regulates these recycled water
activities.
2.1.5. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens secondary
sludge with a dissolved air flotation unit, combines secondary sludge with
primary sludge that it treats with lime, and dewaters the combined sludge with
centrifuges. The Discharger incinerates the final dewatered sludge o nsite,
which produces ash. The Discharger hires a contractor to truck the ash to an
offsite recycling facility for use as a soil amendment. If Facility incinerators are
inoperable, the Discharger may haul biosolids to a landfill, an organic materials
recov ery facility, or the East Bay Municipal Utility District wastewater treatment
plant .
2.1.6. Stormwater Management . The Discharger is not required to be covered under
the statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities , General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with
Industrial Activities, Order 2014 -0057 -DWQ (NPDES Permit
CAS000001) ,because all stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
plant’s headworks for treatment.
2.2. Discharge Point and R eceiving Waters . Discharge of treated effluent to Suisun
Bay is through a submerged, multi -port diffuser, located approximately 1,600 feet
offshore (Discharge Point 001) at an average depth of about 24 feet. The diffuser
is 6 feet in diameter and embedded 4 feet into the sediment. The diffuser is
oriented nearly perpendicular to the shoreline. It consists of 11 upward -facing
18-inch diameter circular ports, separated 11.5 feet on center, for a total length of
115 feet. Based on the outfall configuration, th e discharge is considered a deep
water discharge as defined in the Basin Plan.
About every 5 to 10 years, during the dry season, the Discharger drains and
inspects its 3.5 -mile long, 72 -inch reinforced concrete outfall pipe to verify the
alignment and asse ss the physical integrity of the pipe joint seals. During this time,
the Discharger redirects fully-treated effluent to a holding basin for discharge to
Walnut Creek via a concrete weir structure. The Discharger conducted an
inspection (and any necessary repairs identified as a result) in 2020. It took
approximately 14 weeks to dewater the outfall, inspect it, repair the damaged
joints, and return it to service.
2.3. Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data . The table below presents the
previous order’s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes . The Discharger c ontinues to promote and support recycled
water planning efforts in conjunction with local water agencies. This includes
leading the continued evaluation of the Refinery Recycled Water Exchange Project
– an advanced recycled water treatment project (includi ng nutrient removal) that
would produce approximately 13.5 MGD of recycled water for the Contra Costa
Water District to serve to its two existing refinery customers . The freed -up water
supply could then be conveyed to the Santa Clara Valley Water District. In
response to interest in recycled water from cities within the service area, the
Discharger has also initiated an evaluation to determine the most cost -effective
method to provide recycled water to portions of the cities of Walnut Creek,
Lafayette , and Orinda , and the Town of Moraga. Moreover, t he Discharger
continues to collaborate with a local golf course to consider the viability of a
satellite water recycling facility, which could divert wastewater from the collection
system and treat it onsite to produce recycled water for golf course irrigation and
return the recycling facility process solids to the collection system.
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District Order R2 -2022-0020
Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 648
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-10These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply Regiona l Water Board
authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes .
3.