2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 2050
Detroit Drive in San Mateo. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of San Mateo and Foster
City, the Town of Hillsborough, and portions of the City of Belmont and
unincorporated San Mateo County . The plant serves a population of about
150,000. Attachment B provides a ma p and aerial photo of the area around the
treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Collection System . The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from the
City of San Mateo collection system, the City of Foster City Estero Municipal
Improvement District collection system , and four satellite collection systems, all
of which are separate sewer systems. The City of San Mateo collection system
is comprised of approximately 240 miles of publicly -owned pipes and 25 pump
stations. The City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District
collection system is comprised of approximately 66 miles of publicly -owned
pipes and 49 pump stations. The satellite collection systems that contribute to
the City of San Mateo co llection system are the City of Belmont (approximately
80 miles of publicly -owned pipes), Crystal Springs Sanitation District
(approximately 19 miles of publicly -owned pipes), Town of Hillsborough
(approximately 98 miles of publicly -owned pipes), and Count y of San Mateo
Tower Road Complex (approximately 2.4 miles of publicly -owned pipes). The
Discharger is undertaking collection system upgrades as described in Fact
Sheet section 2.5.
2.1.3 . Wastewater Treatment . The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 15.7 million gallons per day (MG D).
During dry seasons (May 1 to September 30 ) from 2018 to 2023, the plant
treated an average daily dry weather flow of 9.9 MGD. The plant treatment
process consists of primary c larification, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection .
City of San Mateo and Order R2-2023 -0017
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES Permit CA0037541
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6The Discharger is undertaking major plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet
section 2.5). When completed, the plant will provide preliminary screening, grit
removal, fine screening, primary clarification, biological nutrient removal,
filtration with activated sludge treatment (through a membrane bioreactor), and
chlorine disinfection. During peak wet weather, when flows exceed the capacity
of the biological nutrient removal and membrane bioreactor system (ranging
from 21 MGD as a daily average flow to 31.5 MGD for up to 48 hours, and up to
48 MGD for 4 hours) the portion of flows above the me mbrane bioreactor
capacity will be routed to a separate biological treatment process consisting of a
biological contact tank containing activated sludge and a high-rate clarifier that
uses flocculation to increase the solids settling rate . Wastewater route d through
this separate wet weather treatment process will also be disinfected. This
treatment configuration is not considered a bypass because all wastewater will
receive biological treatment. This will allow the plant to treat peak wet weather
flows up t o 60 MGD. The Discharger will be able to manage peak wet weather
flows of up to 78 MGD by storing screened wastewater in onsite equalization
basin s.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the current treatment plant and the
proposed upgraded plant unde r both dry -weather and wet -weather operations .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with gravity thickeners and waste -activated sludge through dissolved air
flotation, treats the thickened sludge with anaerobic dig estion, dewaters the
digested sludge with a centrifuge, and hauls the dewatered, treated biosolids
offsite for disposal. The plant upgrades will not affect the sludge and biosolids
processes .
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . The Discharger captures most stormwater within
the plant’s storm drain system, which directs the stormwater to the plant’s
influent junction box for treatment. A portion of the onsite stormwater flows
offsite to Seal Slough. This stormwater discharge is covered under the State
Water B oard’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated
with industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001). The Discharger
is undertaking upgrades to eliminate offsite discharges.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger does no t currently produce
recycled water. When the Discharger completes its plant upgrades, it expects to
produce up to 10 MGD of recycled water meeting California Water Code
Title 22 requirements for non -potable uses. This water will be discharged to the
Bay un til recycled water users are identified and recycled water storage and
distribution infrastructure is built.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes . In 2014, the Discharger initiated a Clean Water Program to
eliminate SSOs and implement treatment plant improvements. The purpose of
these improvements is to accommodate extreme wet weather flows to the plant
(i.e., eliminate wet weather bypasses), enhance nutrient removal, and provide
opportunities for future water reuse. As such, the Discharger plans to complete the
following projects during this Order term.
·Increases in collection system capacity consisting of pipeline and pump station
increases and installation of an in -system storage basin to equalize high flows to
the plant;
·Insta llation of a treatment plant headworks (consisting of preliminary screening,
grit removal, and fine screening), a biological nutrient removal process,
a membrane bioreactor, and a n additional wet weather biological treatment
City of San Mateo and Order R2-2023 -0017
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES Permit CA0037541
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-12process for wet weather flows t hat exceed the capacities of the biological nutrient
removal unit and membrane bioreactor;
·Improvements to onsite stormwater management and drainage, plant
automation, and electrical systems;
·Construction of a new administration building to house workspace s for plant and
administration staff, a main control room, and a laboratory; and
·Repurposing the existing aeration basins for wet weather flow equalization.
This Order authorizes these changes subject to conditions set forth in Provision
6.3.5.4.
2.6. Sea Level Rise. In its response to a sea level rise questionnaire the Regional
Water Board sent on April 14, 2021, the Discharger noted that the treatment plant
is protected by the City of San Mateo’s levee, which is accredited by the Federal
Emergency Managem ent Agency (FEMA) . Additionally, as part of the Clean Water
Program, t he Discharger considered the Ocean Protection Council’s 2018 Sea -
Level Rise Guidance when planning treatment plant updates. The Discharger
designed all electrical systems and new entrances at an elevation that protects the
structures from a 100-year flood and 3.4 feet of sea level rise , consisten t with
projects that will have a lifespan beyond 2050. The Discharger intends to continue
to take measures to retain FEMA accreditation for its levee network and consider
sea level rise protection measures on an ongoing basis. The Discharger is also a
member of the San Mateo County Flood and Sea Level Rise Resiliency District,
now known as OneShoreline , which seeks to initiate countywide efforts to address
sea level rise and other emerging concerns through integrated regional planning.
3.