FACILITY DESCRIPTION
This section provides informatio n about the Facility and Planned Facility. Requirements related
to the Planned Facility apply only if the Discharger satisfies Provision VI.C.5.c of the Order .
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. Location and Service Area
a. Facility. The existing wastewater treatment plant is located at 1220 Avenue M on
Treasure Island in San Francisco . It provides secondary treatment o f domestic and
commercial wastewater from Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island, located in
San Francisco Bay . The Facility serves a population of approximately 2,500. A
few commercial facilities exist within the Facility’s service area, but no
manufacturing industries.
b. Planned Facility. The Treasure Island Water Resource Recovery Facility will be
located adjacent to the existing pla nt and will provide tertiary treatment of
wastewater from Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island. The Planned Facility is
anticipated to serve 8,000 homes, up to three hotels, and various restaurants,
retail, and outdoor recreation and entertainment venues .
2. Collection System s
a. Facility . Treasure Island has separate stormwater and sanitary sewer system s. The
Discharger transferred ownership of approximately 70 percent of the former
Treasure Island naval base, including the underlying collection system, to TIDA
between May 2015 and October 2019. The portions of collection system owned by the Discharger and TIDA are both subject to the statewide WDRs described in Provision VI.C.4.b.
The entire wastewater collection system , including the separate portions owned
by the U.S. Navy and TIDA, consists of approximately 15 miles of gravity sewer
mains and 4 miles of force mains, with pipes ranging in diameter from 4 to 36
inches. Pipeline materials include cast iron, plastic, vitrified clay, and asbestos
cement. In addition to gravity sewers, the system includes 25 sanitary sewer pump
stations, two of which are on Yer ba Buena Island. Wastewater from the southern
portion of Yerba Buena Island flows to Treasure Island through a 6- inch
submarine force main. Wastewater from the northern portion of Yerba Buena Island flows to Treasure Island through a 6 -inch gravity sewer.
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachm ent F – Fact Sheet F-6 b. Planned Facility . The Discharger expects to t ransfer the remainder of the former
nava l base to TIDA by 2022. TIDA plans to rehabilitate or replace the entire
collection system in phases as it redevelops the island . These upgrades began in
2018 and will con tinue over the next 15 to 20 years . Once TIDA completes the
upgrades, it will transfer the entire system to the City and County of San
Francisco.
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Facility. The existing wastewater treatment plant was initially constructed in
1961 to provide primary treatment and was later upgraded to provide secondary treatment and disinfection. The plant is now designed to provide secondary
treatment for an average of 2.0 million gallons per day (MGD). A s indicated in
the study “Improving Process Reliability and Performance Through Flow Equalization” (Nolte & Associates, April 1991), the plant can provide secondary treatment for up to 4.4 MGD during wet weather . From April 2015 through
November 201 9, daily in fluent flows ranged between 0.10 and 1.6 MGD, with an
average of 0.3 4 MGD.
Existing plant operations and processes include preliminary treatment with bar
screening and grit removal , primary treatment with primary sedimentation tanks ,
secondary treatment with trickling filters and secondary sedimentation ,
disinfection with sodium hypochlorite , and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite.
Treated wastewater is routed to Discharge Point No. 001.
b. Planned Facility. The Planned Facility will be designed to treat all wastewater to
tertiary treatment standards. It is being designed for an average dry weather flow
of 1.3 MGD and a peak wet weather flow of 3.9 MGD.
Planned Facility operations and processes are anticipated to include an
equalizatio n basin for storage of instantaneous peak flows; preliminary treatment,
including screening and grit removal; secondary treatment by means of a
membrane bioreactor (MBR), consisting of activated sludge biological process basins and submerged membrane filtr ation trains; and ultraviolet disinfection.
Effluent recycled for use onsite or distributed to other users will be chlorinated.
Effluent in excess of recycled water demands will not be chlorinated and will be
pumped to a constructed wetland adjacent to the new treatment plant for polishing
treatment. After wetland treatment, the treated effluent will be routed to
Discharge Point No. 002.
To adapt to rising sea levels, the Planned Facility will adher e to the City and
County of San Francisco’s Guidance for Incorporating Sea Level Rise into
Capital Planning in San Francisco. The Planned Facility will accommodate 39
inches of sea level rise, plus 6 inches of freeboard.
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachm ent F – Fact Sheet F-7 4. Sludge and Biosolids Management
Solids and sludge from the Facility are sent to Oceanside Water Pollution Control
Plant in San Francisco for treatment and disposal . Solids from the Planned Facility
will also be sent offsite, although the location has not yet been determined.
5. Recycl ing
a. Facility. T he Facility does not produce recycled wastewater .
b. Planned Facility. The Planned F acility will be designed to achieve the
disinfected tertiary treatment standards of California Code of Regulations, Title
22, Division 4, section 60301.230. The average annual recycled water demand is
anticipated to be 0.43 MGD, with a peak flow of 0.98 MGD. The recycled water
system will serve indoor and outdoor non- potable water demands, including
landscape irrigation, urban farming, and dual plumbing. Prior to recycl ing water
from the Planned F acility, the Discharger must apply for coverage under the State
Water Board’s Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use ( Order
No. WQ 2016- 0068- DDW).
6. Stormwater Management
a. Facility. All drains within the existing plant boundary convey stormwater flows
to the treatment plant headworks; however, some stormwater from within the plant boundary may also flow over land to storm drains outside of the treatment
plant perimeter. The Discharger maintains coverage for its stormwater discharges
through enrollment in the Phase II Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) Program, NPDES No. CAS000004.
b. Planned Facility. All onsite stormwater at the Planned Facility will be captured
in a catchment basin and conveyed to the plant headworks for treatment. Rainfall
onto the treatment wetlands will be captured and discharged.
B. Discharge Point s and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes ........................................................................................................................ G-14
G. Anticipated Noncompliance ....................................................................................................... G-14
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116
Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions ii H. Other Noncompliance ................................................................................................................ G-14
I. Other Information ...................................................................................................................... G-14
VI. STANDARD PROVISION – ENFORCEMENT ......................................................................... G-14
VII. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS .................................................. G-14
VIII. DEFINITIONS ............................................................................................................................. G-14
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachment G – Regional Sta ndard Provisions G-1
REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS, AND MONITORING AND
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

APPLICABILITY

This document supplements the requirements of Federal Standard Provisions (Attachment D). For clarity, these provisions are arranged using to the same headings as those used in Attachment D.

I. STANDARD PROVISIONS - PERMIT COMPLIANCE

A. Duty to Comply – Not Supplemented
 B. Need to Halt or Reduce Activity Not a Defense – Not Supplemented
 C. Duty to Mitigate – Supplement to Attachment D, Provision I.C.

1. Contingency Plan. The Discharger shall maintain a Contingency Plan as prudent in accordance with cur rent facility emergency planning. The Contingency Plan shall
describe procedures to ensure that existing facilities remain in, or are rapidly returned to, operation in the event of a process failure or emergency incident, such as employee strike, strike by suppliers of chemicals or maintenance services, power outage, vandalism, earthquake, or fire. The Discharger may combine the Contingency
Plan and Spill Prevention Plan (see Provision I.C.2, below) into one document. In
accordance with Regional Water Board Resolution No. 74- 10, discharge in violation
of the permit where the Discharger has failed to develop and implement a Contingency Plan as described below may be the basis for considering the discharge a willful and negligent violation of the permit pursua nt to California Water Code
section 13387. The Contingency Plan shall, at a minimum, provide for the following:
a. Sufficient personnel for continued facility operation and maintenance during employee strikes or strikes against contractors providing services;

b. Maintenance of adequate chemicals or other supplies, and spare parts necessary for continued facility operations;

c. Emergency standby power;

d. Protection against vandalism;

e. Expeditious action to repair failures of, or damage to, equipment, including any sewer lines;

f. Reporting of spills and discharges of untreated or inadequately treated wastes, including measures taken to clean up the effects of such discharges; and

U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachment G – Regional Sta ndard Provisions G-2 g. Maintenance, replacement, and surveillance of physical condition of equipm ent
and facilities, including any sewer lines.
2. Spill Prevention Plan. The Discharger shall maintain a Spill Prevention Plan to
prevent accidental discharges and to minimize the effects of any such discharges. The Spill Prevention Plan shall do the followin g:
a. Identify the possible sources of accidental discharge, untreated or partially -treated
waste bypass, and polluted drainage;

b. State when current facilities and procedures became operational and evaluate their effectiveness; and

c. Predict the effectiveness of any proposed facilities and procedures and provide an
implementation schedule with interim and final dates when the proposed facilities and procedures will be constructed, implemented, or operational.

D. Proper Operation and Maintenance – Supplement to A ttachment D, Provision I.D

1. Operation and Maintenance Manual . The Discharger shall maintain an Operation
and Maintenance Manual to provide the plant and regulatory personnel with a source of information describing all equipment, recommended operational strategies, process control monitoring, and maintenance activities. To remain a useful and relevant document, the Operation and Maintenance Manual shall be kept updated to reflect significant changes in treatment facility equipment and operational practices. The Operation and Maintenance Manual shall be maintained in usable condition and be
available for reference and use by all relevant personnel and Regional Water Board
staff.

2. Wastewater Facilities Status Report. The Discharger shall maintain a Wastewater
Facilities Status Report and regularly review, revise, or upda te it, as necessary. This
report shall document how the Discharger operates and maintains its wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilities to ensure that all facilities are adequately staffed, supervised, financed, operated, maintained, repair ed, and upgraded as
necessary to provide adequate and reliable transport, treatment, and disposal of all wastewater from both existing and planned future wastewater sources under the Discharger’s service responsibilities.

3. Proper Supervision and Operation of Publicly -Owned Treatment Works
(POTWs). POTWs shall be supervised and operated by persons possessing
certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to Title 23, section 3680, of the California Code of Regulations.

E. Property Rights – Not Supplemented

F. Inspection and Entry – Not Supplemented

U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachment G – Regional Sta ndard Provisions G-3 G. Bypass – Not Supplemented

H. Upset – Not Supplemented
I. Other – Addition to Attachment D

1. Neither the treatment nor the discharge of pollutants shall create pollution,
contamination, or nuisance as defined by California Water Code section 13050.

2. Collection, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be operated in a manner that precludes public contact with wastewater. If public contact with wastewater could reasonably occur on publi c property, warning signs shall be posted.

3. If the Discharger submits a timely and complete Report of Waste Discharge for permit reissuance, this permit shall continue in force and effect until the permit is reissued or the Regional Water Board rescinds th e permit.
 II. STANDARD PROVISIONS – PERMIT ACTION – Not Supplemented
 III. STANDARD PROVISIONS – MONITORING

A. Sampling and Analyses – Supplement to Attachment D, Provisions III.A and III.B

1. Certified Laboratories. Water and waste analyses shall be performed by a laboratory
certified for these analyses in accordance with California Water Code section 13176.

2. Minimum Levels. For the 126 priority pollutants, the Discharger should use the
analytical methods listed in Table B unless the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP, Attachment E) requires a particular method or minimum level (ML). All monitoring instruments and equipment shall be properly calibrated and maintained to ensure accuracy of measurements.

3. Monitoring Frequency. The MRP specifies the minimum sampling and analysis schedule.
a. Sample Collection Timing
i. The Discharger shall collect influent samples on varying days selected at random and shall not include any plant recirculation or other sidestream wastes, unless otherwise stipu lated in the MRP. The Executive Officer may
approve an alternative influent sampling plan if it is representative of plant influent and complies with all other permit requirements.
ii. The Discharger shall collect effluent samples on days coincident with influ ent sampling, unless otherwise stipulated by the MRP. If influent
sampling is not required, the Discharger shall collect effluent samples on varying days selected at random, unless otherwise stipulated in the MRP. The
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachment G – Regional Sta ndard Provisions G-4 Executive Officer may approve an alter native effluent sampling plan if it is
representative of plant discharge and in compliance with all other permit
requirements.
iii. The Discharger shall collect effluent grab samples during periods of daytime maximum peak flows (or peak flows through secondary treatment units for facilities that recycle effluent).
iv. Effluent sampling for conventional pollutants shall occur on at least one day of any multiple -day bioassay the MRP requires. During the course of the
bioassay, on at least one day, the Discharger shall collect and retain samples
of the discharge. In the event that a bioassay result does not comply with effluent limitations, the Discharger shall analyze the retained samples for pollutants that could be toxic to aquatic life and for which it has effluent limitations.
(a) The Discharger shall perform bioassays on final effluent samples; when chlorine is used for disinfection, bioassays shall be performed on effluent after chlorination and dechlorination; and
(b) The Discharger shall analyze for total ammonia nitrogen and calculate the amount of un- ionized ammonia whenever test results fail to meet effluent
limitations.

b. Conditions Triggering Accelerated Monitoring
i. Average Monthly Effluent Limitation Exceedance. If the results from two
consecutive samp les of a constituent monitored in a particular month exceed
the average monthly effluent limitation for any parameter (or if the required
sampling frequency is once per month or less and the monthly sample
exceeds the average monthly effluent limitation), the Discharger shall, within
24 hours after the results are received, increase its sampling frequency to daily until the results from the additional sampling show that the parameter complies with the average monthly effluent limitation.
ii. Maximum Daily Efflu ent Limitation Exceedance. If a sample result
exceeds a maximum daily effluent limitation, the Discharger shall, within 24 hours after the result is received, increase its sampling frequency to daily until the results from two samples collected on consecut ive days show
compliance with the maximum daily effluent limitation.
iii. Acute Toxicity. If final or intermediate results of an acute bioassay indicate
a violation or threatened violation (e.g., the percentage of surviving test organisms of any single acute b ioassay is less than 70 percent), the
Discharger shall initiate a new test as soon as practical or as described in applicable State Water Board plan provisions that become effective after adoption of these Regional Standard Provisions. The Discharger shall
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachment G – Regional Sta ndard Provisions G-5 investigate the cause of the mortalities and report its findings in the next self -
monitoring report.
iv. Chlorine. The Discharger shall calibrate chlorine residual analyzers against
grab samples as frequently as necessary to maintain accurate control and reliable operation. If an effluent violation is detected, the Discharger shall
collect grab samples at least every 30 minutes until compliance with the limitation is achieved, unless the Discharger monitors chlorine residual continuously. In such cases, the Di scharger shall continue to conduct
continuous monitoring.
v. Bypass. Except as indicated below, if a Discharger bypasses any portion of its treatment facility, it shall monitor flows and collect samples at affected discharge points and analyze samples for all constituents with effluent
limitations on a daily basis for the duration of the bypass. The Discharger need not accelerate chronic toxicity monitoring. The Discharger also need not collect and analyze samples for mercury, dioxin- TEQ, and PCBs after the
first day of the bypass. The Discharger may satisfy the accelerated acute toxicity monitoring requirement by conducting a flow -through test or static
renewal test that captures the duration of the bypass (regardless of the method specified in the MRP). If by passing disinfection units only, the
Discharger shall only monitor bacteria indicators daily.
(a) Bypass for Essential Maintenance. If a Discharger bypasses a treatment
unit for essential maintenance pursuant to Attachment D section I.G.2, the Executive Offic er may reduce the accelerated monitoring
requirements above if the Discharger (i) monitors effluent at affected
discharge points on the first day of the bypass for all constituents with
effluent limitations, except chronic toxicity; and (ii) identifies and
implements measures to ensure that the bypass will continue to comply
with effluent limitations.
(b) Approved Wet Weather Bypasses. If a Discharger bypasses a treatment
unit or permitted outfall during wet weather with Executive Officer approval pursuant to Attachment D section I.G.4, the Discharger shall monitor flows and collect and retain samples for affected discharge points on a daily basis for the duration of the bypass. The Discharger shall analyze daily for TSS using 24- hour composites (or more f requent
increments) and for bacteria indicators with effluent limitations using grab samples. If TSS exceeds 45 mg/L in any composite sample, the
Discharger shall also analyze daily the retained samples for all other constituents with effluent limitations, except oil and grease, mercury,
PCBs, dioxin- TEQ, and acute and chronic toxicity. Additionally, at least
once each year, the Discharger shall analyze the retained samples for one approved bypass for all other constituents with effluent limitations, except oil and grease, mercury, PCBs, dioxin- TEQ, and acute and chronic
U.S. Department of Navy Order No. R2-2020 -0020
Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES N o. CA0110116

Attachment G – Regional Sta ndard Provisions G-6 toxicity. This monitoring shall be in addition to the minimum monitoring
specified in the MRP.

B. Standard Observations – Addition to Attachment D

1.