FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. Location and Service Area . The wastewater treatment plant is located at 2500
Pittsburg -Antioch Highway on the border of Pittsburg and Antioch (see
Attachment B, Figure B -1). It provides primary and secondary treatment of
wastewater from the cities of Pittsburg and Antioch, and the unincorporated
community of Bay Point . The plant also provides tertiary -treated recycled water,
primarily to two local power plants for reuse in cooling towers. The Discharger ser ves
a population of approximately 213,000.
2. Collection System s. The Discharger ow ns and operates approximately 76 miles of
gravity and pressure sewer lines , five pump stations , and one flow equalization
station . The c ities of Pittsburg and Antioch own and operate about 170 miles and
320 miles of sewer lines.
3. Wastewater Treatment . The Discharger treats all influent to secondary treatment
standards at its plant. T he treatment process include s screening and grit removal,
primary clarification, biological treatment using trickling towers and/or aeration
basins (parallel treatme nt processes) , secondary clarification, disinfection using
Delta Diablo Order No. R2-2019-0035
 NPDES No . CA0038547


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5 sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. During periods of
exceptionally high flows, wastewater in excess of the secondary treatment capacity can be stored at a pump station (4.0 MG) and in an onsite storage basin (16 MG) for
treatment after the high flows subside. Attachment B, Figures 2 and 3, show the plant layout ; Attachment C provides a treatment plant flow schematic .
Following secondary clarification, the Discharger sends approximately half the
plant’s flow to its Recycled Water Facility (further described in Section II.A.5 below)
for tertiary treatment and beneficial reuse.
Two power plants , the Delta Energy Center and the Los Medanos Energy Center, use
recycled wat er and return about 1.9 MGD of cooling tower blowdown water to the
plant . The plant also receives a small , high- dissolved- solids waste stream of industrial
brine ( approximately 15,000 gallons per day) from the Corteva Agriscience –
Pittsburg Operations plant. The Discharger typically combine s these flow s with
secondary -treated water prior to disinfection, al though it may route them to the plant
headworks for treatment .
The plant has an average dry weather design flow of 19.5 MGD and a peak wet
weather capacity of 31.1 MGD. From October 2014 through May 2019, the plant treated a daily average of about 13 MGD; the highest reported average daily flow was
22.1 MGD. The average flow sent t o the Recycled Water Facility for tertiary
treatment and distribution to customers over the same period was 5.8 MGD , with a
maximum of 12.4 MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Primary solids are sent to the anaerobic
digesters, while secondary solids are first concentrated using gravity belt thickeners,
then anaerobically digested. Digested biosolids are dewatered by centrifuge and either hauled by truck for land application, sent to a separate composting facility, or sent to a landfill by a contractor. G rit and screenings from the wastewater treatment process
are also sent to a landfill.
5. Recycl ing. The treatment plant produces recycled wastewater under the Regional
Water Board’s General Water Reuse Requirements for Municipal Wastewater and Water Agencies (Order No. 96- 011) and the State Water Board’s General Waste
Discharge Requirements for Landscape Irrigation Uses of Municipal Recycled Water
(Order No. 2009- 0006- DWQ). During this Order’s term, the Discharger’s coverage
under these permits will be replace d by coverage under the State Water Board’s
Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Order No. WQ
2016- 0068- DDW). The Discharger will receive written notification regarding when
this change will take effect.
The Recycled Water Facility’s treatment process consists of flocculation and clarification, sand filtration, and chlorination. The Discharger routes waste flows generated by tertiary treatment to the plant headworks upstream of the influent sampler. Recycled Water Facility effluent meets the tertiary treatment standards of
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 4, section 60301.230.
Delta Diablo Order No. R2-2019-0035
 NPDES No . CA0038547


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 Approximately 90 percent of the Recycled Water Facility’s tertiary -treated effluent is
used for power plant cooling tower and boiler makeup wat er; the remainder is used
for dust control and landscape irrigation at local schools, parks, highways, and golf
courses. If there is insufficient demand for recycled water, t he Discharger may return
tertiary -treated effluent to the plant upstream of the chlorine contact tanks for
discharge through Discharge Point 001.
6. Stormwater Management. All stormwater from the plant property is directed to the
Emergency Retention Basin and pumped to the trickling filter for secondary treatment ; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are necessary .
B. Discharge Point s and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete several projects during this permit term. These changes
are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring Faci lity reliability. Their
inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board authorization. The Discharger may need to conduct environmental review or obtain necessary permits or permit modifications to implement the changes. The Discharger plans to complete the following:
• Replace main electrical switchgear that is nea ring the end of its useful life;
• Implement the East County Bioenergy Project, an organics co- digestion project that
will divert organic waste from local landfills , enable the District to become energy
self-sufficient , and potentially allow it to sell excess electrici ty to the local power
grid;
• Rehabilitate the plant’s headworks and grit removal structures ;
• Rehabilitate the tower mixing chamber and overflow structure to address corrosion;
• Replace sodium bisulfite storage tanks that are at the end of their service lives;
• Upgrade the Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition ( SCADA) system hardware;
• Improve the Emergen cy Retention Basin ; and
• Begin accepting RO concentrate from the proposed Antioch Brackish Water
Desalination P roject , which will upgrade the City’s drinking water treatment plant to
Delta Diablo Order No. R2-2019-0035
 NPDES No . CA0038547


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9 reduce salinity in treated river water . The project will send 2.0 MGD of RO
concentrate to the Facility for blending with its treated effluent and discharg e to New
York Slough. The Discharger expects to begin discharging RO concentrate in mid-
2022.
III.