FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater Treatment and Stormwater Control
1. Wastewater Treatment .

The Discharger owns and operates a 420- acre steel finishing plant. The Facility finishes
purchased coils of hot -rolled steel but does not manufacture steel from raw materials. The
processes include pickling with hydrochloric and sulfuric acid, cold rolling, alkaline
cleaning, annealing, hot -dip galvanizing, and electrolytic tin and chromium plating.
 Attachment C provides a schematic diagram of the Facility treatment processes. The following treatment systems provide preliminary treatment in the main part of the Facility
prior to final treatment at the main treatment plant in the northeast corner of the Facility:
• The oil separation treats oily wastewater from cold rolling mills.
• The outgoing treatment system reduces chromium VI from the chromium recovery unit.
• The primary neutralization system neutralizes the pH of spent alkaline cleaning baths.
 Partly treated wastewater from the above processes flows to the main treatment plant alon g
with other untreated waste streams (see Attachment C).The treatment plant also receives a maximum of 5 million gallons per year of wastewater from impoundments and purge water from monitoring wells.
 Attachment C provides a diagram of the Facility’s main wastewater treatment plant. It
consists of a pump station (Lift Station No. 3), an oil/water separator, a mixer building to adjust the pH with lime or caustic for metals precipitation, two clarifiers, and two neutralization tanks for final pH adjustment ( hydrochloric acid in the first stage and
hydrochloric acid or caustic in the second stage). Solids from the clarifier are dewatered with a filter press and hauled to the Facility’s onsite landfill. The filtrate is returned to Lift Station No. 3 for treatme nt. Treated wastewater is discharged to New York Slough at Discharge
Point No. 001.

USS-POSCO Industries Order No. R2-2016-0043
Pittsburg Plant NPDES No. CA0005002

F-6
 2. Storm water Management
The treatment plant also receives most of the stormwater from the Facility’s developed areas
(e.g. parking lots, buildings, roadways , and materials storage areas ). However, untreated
stormwater is discharged to New York Slough at Discharge Point No. 002 during large
storms when the pumping capacity is exceeded.

B. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes .
The Discharger has no planned changes for this permit te rm.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, PO LICIES, AND REGULATI ONS
A. Legal Authorities
 This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with section 13260) for discharges to land and/or waters of the State . This Order is
also issued pursuant to Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402 and implementing regulations
adopted by U.S. EPA and Water Code chapter 5.5, division 7 (commencing with § 13370). It
shall serve as an NPDES permit for point source discharges from the F acility to surface waters.
B. California Environmental Quality Act
 Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the
provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code division 13, chapter 3 (commencing with section 21100).
C. State and Federal Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Regional Water Board adopted the Water Quality Control
Plan for the San Francisco Bay Basin (Basin Plan) , which designates beneficial uses,
USS-POSCO Industries Order No. R2-2016-0043
Pittsburg Plant NPDES No. CA0005002

F-8
 establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to
achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan. In addition, this Order implements Sta te Water Board
Resolution No. 88- 63, which established S tate policy that all waters, with certain exceptions,
should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply. The table below lists b eneficial u ses of New York Slough:
Table F -3. Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point s