FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
11 Tennent Avenue in Pinole. It provides secondary treatment of domestic ,
commercial , and industrial wastewater for the cities of Pinole and Hercules in
Contra Co sta County. The Facility serves a population of about 4 5,000 people .
Attachment B shows a map of the area around the Facility .
2.1.2 Collection System . The wastewater treatment plant receives flows from two
collection systems. The City of Pinole’s collection system is a separate sewer
system comprised of approximately 51 miles of pipes and 2 pump stations. The
City of Hercules’ collection system is a sepa rate sewer system comprised of
approximately 58 miles of pipes and 6 pump stations , covered separately under
State Water Board Order WQ 2022 0103 DWQ (Statewide Waste Discharge
Requirements General Order for Sanitary Sewer Systems) . The cities own and
operate the collection systems within their city limits.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The wastewater treatment process consists of influent
screening, grit removal, primary clarification , activated sludge biological
treatment (with Modified Ludzack -Ettinger pr ocess for
nitrification/denitrification), secondary clarification, disinfection with sodium
hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. Attachment C provides
the treatment plant flow schematic. The treated effluent (disinfected and
dechlorinat ed) is pumped through an effluent force main to Rodeo, where it is
combined with Rodeo Sanitary District effluent and discharged through a
deepwater outfall/diffuser to San Pablo Bay. The treatment plant has an
average daily dry weather treatment capacity of up to 4.06 million gallons per
day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 20 MGD. During wet weather,
the Discharger routes flows that exceed 12 MGD directly to its activated sludge
biological treatment system (after screening and grit removal) . From November
2021 through October 20 22, the plant treated a daily average of 2.7 MGD.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary and
secondary sludge with a gravity thickener, treats the combined sludge with
anaerobic digesti on to a Class B level , and dewaters the combined sludge with
a centrifuge. Biosolids are currently hauled to the Keller Canyon Landfill for
disposal . The Discharger is considering c omposting and land application of
biosolids for future disposal practices.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
City of Pinole Order R2-2023-0008
Pinole -Hercules Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037 796
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-62.2. Discharg e Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes . The Discharger recently completed system upgrades to
increase the Facility’s wet weather capacity up to 20 MGD and plans several
improvements for the next permit term :
·Effluent Outfall Eductor Station : The Dischar ger is working with the Rodeo
Sanitary District to coordin ate the replacement of a section of outfall piping at
the Rodeo Eductor Station to increase the wet weather effluent pumping
capacity . The Effluent Pump Station is currently capable of conveying
11.5 MGD through the deepwater outfall. The pipe will be upsi zed to achieve a
pumping capacity of 13.9 MGD .
·Replacement of Air Release Valves : Four air release valves found on the
effluent pipeline between the Facility and the Effluent Outfall in Rodeo are in
poor condition . The project includes removal and replacem ent of the pipe
saddle, short pipe section, isolation valve, and air relief valve.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliabil ity. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board
authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes .
3.