FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. Location and Service Area. The Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant is located at
3500 Great Highway , San Francisco . The plant provides wastewater treatment for western
San Francisco and a small portion of Daly City owned and operated by the North San Mateo
County Sanitation District. The service area population is approximately 250,000. The Discharger is construct ing a recycled water project at the plant site during this Order’s term.
The wastewater collection system is located throughout the western side of San Francisco.
Attachment B shows map s of the Facility area.
2. Collection System. The Discharger’s collection system is predominantly a combined sewer
system with some limited separate sanitary sewers. The combined sewer system consists of approximately 250 miles of pipe, one major pump sta tion (Westside Pump Station), six
minor pump stations (four all-weather pump stations: Westside, Sea C liff No. 1, Sea C liff
No. 2, and Pine Lake ; and two wet weather pump stations: Sea C liff No. 3 and Zoo Wet
Weather Lift Station) , and three large transport/storage structures (Westside
Transport/Storage Structure, a 49.3- million -gallon box-like structure located beneath the
Great Highway; Richmond Tunnel, a 12.0- million -gallon tunnel located to the north; and
Lake Merced Tunnel, a 10.0- million -gallo n tunnel located to the south). The separate
sanitary sewer system s serve isolated areas and are also regulated under State Water Board
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5 Order No. 2006-0003- DWQ as amended by State Water Board Order No. WQ 2013-0058-
EXEC.
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant . During dry weather, the plant provides
secondary treatment. The treatment processes include coarse screening at the Westside
Pump Station, fine screening and grit removal at the plant headworks, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge treatment by a high-purity oxygen process, and secondary clarification. The effluent is not disinfected . The plant has a maximum secondary
treatment design capacity of about 43 million gallons per day (MGD). During wet weather, the plant can provide primary treatment for about 22 M GD more, which is
combined with the secondary -treated effluent prior to discharge for a total treatment
capaci ty of 65 MGD. Plant effluent flows to Discharge Point No. 001 by gravity.
b. Combined Sewer System . The combined storage capacity of the three transport/storage
structures is about 71 million gallons. C ollection system piping provides about 2 million
gallons of additional storage. The transport/storage structures provide flow equalization and convey combined sewer system flows up to 65 MGD to th e plant by way of the
Westside Pump Station.
Flows above the plant’s 65- MGD treatment capacity receive equivalent- to-primary
treatment through solids settling, skimming of floatable solids, and in some cases screening with in the combined sewer system . In addition to pumping up to 65 MGD to
the plant, the Westside Pump Station can also pump flow from the Westside Transport/Storage Structure to Discharge Point No. 001 during wet weather
 (identified in
the previous order as “decant”). The design capacity of the Westside Pump Station wet weather pumps ranges from 98 to 133 MGD depending on the number and model of pumps operating when there are high water levels in the West Box of the Westside Transport/Storage Structure (typically observed during wet weather operations). Flows that exceed the capacities of the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant and combined sewer system may discharge from Discharge Point Nos. CSD -001, CSD-002, CSD-003,
CSD -004, CSD-005, CSD-006, and CSD -007. F our of these discharge points are directly
connected to transport/storage structures (Discharge Point Nos. CSD -001, CSD-002,
CSD -003, and CSD-004), and three are associated with pump station sumps (Discharge
Point Nos. CSD -005, CSD-006, and CSD-007). After wet weather events , stored
combined sewer system flows and accumulated solids remaining in the transport/storage structures are conveyed to the plant for treatment.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger uses temperature -phased anaerobic
digestion, which is capable of producing Class A biosolids. Primary sludge, waste activated sludge, and secondary scum are mixed and co-thickened using gravity belt thickeners prior to being fed to the anaerobic digestion system. The digestion system accepts hauled -in batches
of primary and secondary sludge from the Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Digested biosolids are dewatered using screw presses and stored in hoppers prior to being
loaded into covered trucks for transport. During the wet season , the majority of biosolids are
hauled to a landfill for storage and eventual use as interim cover, final cover, or landfill
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 building material; a small percentage is reused for agricultural land application . During the
dry season , biosolids are hauled offsite for agricultural land application.
5. Water Recycling and Reclamation . The Discharger is constructing a recycled water project
at the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant site during this Order’s term. Secondary-
treated efflu ent will be treated further with membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection to produce recycled water. The concentrate from the reverse osmosis process will be commingled with plant effluent prior to discharge at Discharge Point No. 001. Filter backwash water generated at the Westside Recycled Water Project will be directed to the plant headworks for treatment. The project is expected to produce and deliver an annual average flow of 1.6 MGD of recycled water for distribution in the western portion of San Francisco , with peak deliveries of up to 4 MGD during summer.
Water recycling operations will not increase the mass of pollutants discharged at Discharge Point No. 001, but will increase the concentration of pollutants discharged. The requirements of this Order account for the discharge from this water recycling project. Reclamation
requires waste discharge requirements beyond those specified here, such as those in State Water Board Order No. WQ 2016-0068- DDW (Water Reclamat ion Requirements for
Recycled Water Use).
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes .....................................................................................................................................G-13
G. Anticipated Noncompliance ....................................................................................................................G-13
H. Other Noncompliance ..............................................................................................................................G-13
I. Other Information ....................................................................................................................................G-13
VI. STANDARD PROVISION – ENFORCEMENT ..................................................................................... G-13
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions, and Monitoring and Reporting Requirements ( November 2017) ii VII. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS – NOTIFICATION LEVELS .............................................................. G-13
VIII. DEFINITIONS ......................................................................................................................................... G-13

City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions, and Monitoring and Reporting Requirements ( November 2017) G-1 REGIONAL STANDARD PROVISIONS, AND MONITORING AND
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

APPLICABILITY
This document supplements the requirements of Federal Standard Provisions (Attachment D). For clarity, these provisions are arranged using to the same headings as those used in Attachment D.
I. STANDARD PROVISIONS - PERMIT COMPLIANCE
A. Duty to Comply – Not Supplemented
B. Need to Halt or Reduce Activity Not a Defense – Not Supplemented
C. Duty to Mitigate – Supplement to Attachment D, Provision I.C.
1. Contingency Plan . The Discharger shall maintain a Contingency Plan as prudent in
accordance with current facility em ergency planning. The Contingency Plan shall describe
procedures to ensure that existing facilities remain in, or are rapidly returned to, operation in
the event of a process failure or emergency incident, such as employee strike, strike by suppliers of chemicals or maintenance services, power outage, vandalism, earthquake, or fire. The Discharger may combine the Contingency Plan and Spill Prevention Plan (see Provision I.C.2, below) into one document. In accordance with Regional Water Board Resolution No. 74-10, discharge in violation of the permit where the Discharger has failed to develop and implement a Contingency Plan as described below may be the basis for considering the discharge a willful and negligent violation of the permit pursuant to California Water Code section 13387. The Contingency Plan shall, at a minimum, provide
for the following:
a. Sufficient personnel for continued facility operation and maintenance during employee strikes or strikes against contractors providing services;
b. Maintenance of adequate chemicals or other supplies, and spare parts necessary for continued facility operations;
c. Emergency standby power;
d. Protection against vandalism;
e. Expeditious action to repair failures of, or damage to, equipment, including any sewer lines;
f. Reporting of spills and discharges of untreated or inadequately treated wastes, including measures taken to clean up the effects of such discharges; and
g. Maintenance, replacement, and surveillance of physical condition of equipment and facilities, including any se wer lines.
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions, and Monitoring and Reporting Requirements ( November 2017) G-2 2. Spill Prevention Plan . The Discharger shall maintain a Spill Prevention Plan to prevent
accidental discharges and to minimize the effects of any such discharges. The Spill
Prevention Plan shall do the following:
a. Identify the possible sources of accidental discharge, untreated o r partially -treated waste
bypass, and polluted drainage;
b. State when current facilities and procedures became operational and evaluate their
effectiveness; and
c. Predict the effectiveness of any proposed facilities and procedures and provide an implementation schedule with interim and final dates when the proposed facilities and
procedures will be constructed, implemented, or operational.
D. Proper Operation and Maintenance – Supplement to Attachment D, Provision I.D
1. Operation and Maintenance Manual . The Dischar ger shall maintain an Operation and
Maintenance Manual to provide the plant and regulatory personnel with a source of information describing all equipment, recommended operational strategies, process control monitoring, and maintenance activities. To remain a useful and relevant document, the Operation and Maintenance Manual shall be kept updated to reflect significant changes in treatment facility equipment and operational practices. The Operation and Maintenance Manual shall be maintained in usable condit ion and be available for reference and use by all
relevant personnel and Regional Water Board staff.
2. Wastewater Facilities Status Report . The Discharger shall maintain a Wastewater
Facilities Status Report and regularly review, revise, or update it, as necessary. This report shall document how the Discharger operates and maintains its wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilitie s to ensure that all facilities are adequately staffed,
supervised, financed, operated, maintained, repaired, and upgraded as necessary to provide adequate and reliable transport, treatment, and disposal of all wastewater from both existing and planned fut ure wastewater sources under the Discharger’s service responsibilities.
3. Proper Supervision and Operation of Publicly -Owned Treatment Works (POTWs) .
POTWs shall be supervised and operated by persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to Title 23, section 3680, of the California Code of Regulations.
E. Property Rights – Not Supplemented
F. Inspection and Entry – Not Supplemented
G. Bypass – Not Supplemented
H. Upset – Not Supplemented
I. Other – Addition to Attachment D
1. Neither the treatment nor the disch arge of pollutants shall create pollution, contamination, or
nuisance as defined by California Water Code section 13050.
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions, and Monitoring and Reporting Requirements ( November 2017) G-3 2. Collection, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be operated in a manner that
precludes public contact with wastewater. If public contact with wastewater could reasonably
occur on public property, warning signs shall be posted.
3. If the Discharger submits a timely and complete Report of Waste Discharge for permit reissuance, this permit shall continue in force and effect until the permit is reissued or the
Regional Water Board rescinds the permit.
II. STANDARD PROVISIONS – PERMIT ACTION – Not Supplemented
III. STANDARD PROVISIONS – MONITORING
A. Sampling and Analyses – Supplement to Attachment D, Provisions III.A and III.B
1. Certified Laboratories. Water and waste analyses shall be performed by a laboratory
certified for these analyses in accordance with California Water Code section 13176.
2. Minimum Levels. For the 126 priority pollutants, the Discharger should use the analytical methods listed in Table B unless the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP,
Attachment E) requires a particular method or minimum level (ML). All monitoring
instruments and equipment shall be properly calibrated and maintained to ensure accuracy of measurements.
3. Monitoring Frequency. The MRP specifies the minimum sampling and analysis schedule.
a. Sample Collection Timing
i. The Discharger shall collect influent samples on varying days selected at random and
shall not include any plant recirculation or other sidestream wastes, unless otherwise stipulated in the MRP. The Executive Officer may approve an alternative influent sampling plan if it is representative of plant influent and complies with all other permit requirements.
ii. The Discharger shall collect effluent samples on days coincident with influent sampling, unless otherwise stipulated by the MRP. If influent sampling is not required, the Discharger shall collect effluent samples on varying days selected at random, unless otherwise stipulated in the MRP. The Executive Officer may approve an alternative effluent sampling plan if it is representative of plant discharge and in compliance with all other permit requirements.
iii. The Discharger shall collect effluent grab samples during periods of daytime maximum peak flows (or peak flows through secondary treatment units for facilities that recycle effluent).
iv. Effluent sampling for conventional pollutants shall occur on at least one day of any multiple -day bioassay the MRP requires. During the course of the bioassay, on at
least one day, the Discharger shall collect and retain samples of the discharge. In the event that a bioassay result does not comply with effluent limitations, the Discharger
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions, and Monitoring and Reporting Requirements ( November 2017) G-4 shall analyze the retained samples for pollutants that could be toxic to aquatic life and
for which it has effluent limitations.
(a) The Discharger shall perform bioassays on final effluent samples; when chlorine is used for disinfection, bioassays shall be performed on effluent after chlorination and dechlorination; and
(b) The Discharger shall analyze for total ammonia nitrogen and calculate the amount of un-ionized ammonia whene ver test results fail to meet effluent limitations.
b. Conditions Triggering Accelerated Monitoring
i. Average Monthly Effluent Limitation Exceedance. If the results from two
consecutive samples of a constituent monitored in a particular month exceed the averag e monthly effluent limitation for any parameter (or if the required sampling
frequency is once per month or less and the monthly sample exceeds the average monthly effluent limitation), the Discharger shall, within 24 hours after the results are received, increase its sampling frequency to daily until the results from the additional sampling show that the parameter complies with the average monthly effluent limitation.
ii. Maximum Daily Effluent Limitation Exceedance. If a sample result exceeds a
maximum daily effluent limitation, the Discharger shall, within 24 hours after the result is received, increase its sampling frequency to daily until the results from two samples collected on consecutive days show compliance with the maximum daily effluent limitation.
iii. Acute Toxicity. If final or intermediate results of an acute bioassay indicate a
violation or threatened violation (e.g., the percentage of surviving test organisms of any single acute bioassay is less than 70 percent), the Discharger shall initiate a new test as soon as practical or as described in applicable State Water Board plan provisions that become effective after adoption of these Regional Standard Provisions. The Discharger shall investigate the cause of the mortalities and report its findings in t he next self -monitoring report.
iv. Chlorine. The Discharger shall calibrate chlorine residual analyzers against grab samples as frequently as necessary to maintain accurate control and reliable operation. If an effluent violation is detected, the Discharger s hall collect grab
samples at least every 30 minutes until compliance with the limitation is achieved, unless the Discharger monitors chlorine residual continuously. In such cases, the Discharger shall continue to conduct continuous monitoring.
v. Bypass. Except as indicated below, if a Discharger bypasses any portion of its treatment facility, it shall monitor flows and collect samples at affected discharge points and analyze samples for all constituents with effluent limitations on a daily basis for the durat ion of the bypass. The Discharger need not accelerate chronic
toxicity monitoring. The Discharger also need not collect and analyze samples for
mercury, dioxin-TEQ, and PCBs after the first day of the bypass. The Discharger may
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System , and Westside Recycled Water Project


Attachment G – Regional Standard Provisions, and Monitoring and Reporting Requirements ( November 2017) G-5 satisfy the accelerated acut e toxicity monitoring requirement by conducting a flow-
through test or static renewal test that captures the duration of the bypass (regardless
of the method specified in the MRP). If bypassing disinfection units only, the Discharger shall only monitor bac teria indicators daily.
(a) Bypass for Essential Maintenance. If a Discharger bypasses a treatment unit for
essential maintenance pursuant to Attachment D section I.G.2, the Executive Officer may reduce the accelerated monitoring requirements above if the Discharger (i) monitors effluent at affected discharge points on the first day of the
bypass for all constituents with effluent limitations, except chronic toxicity; and (ii) identifies and implements measures to ensure that the bypass will continue to comply with effluent limitations.
(b) Approved Wet Weather Bypasses. If a Discharger bypasses a treatment unit or
permitted outfall during wet weather with Executive Officer approval pursuant to Attachment D section I.G.4, the Discharger shall monitor flows and collect and retain samples for affected discharge points on a daily basis for the duration of the bypass. The Discharger shall analyze daily for TSS using 24-hour composites (or more frequent increments) and for bacteria indicators with effluent limitation s
using grab samples. If TSS exceeds 45 mg/L in any composite sample, the Discharger shall also analyze daily the retained samples for all other constituents with effluent limitations, except oil and grease, mercury, PCBs, dioxin-TEQ, and acute and chronic toxicity. Additionally, at least once each year, the Discharger shall analyze the retained samples for one approved bypass for all other constituents with effluent limitations, except oil and grease, mercury, PCBs, dioxin-TEQ, and acute and chronic toxicity. This monitoring shall be in addition to the minimum monitoring specified in the MRP.
B. Standard Observations – Addition to Attachment D
1.