FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The plant is located at 400 East Millbrae Avenue
in the City of Millbrae . It provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial,
and industrial wastewater for the City of Millbrae and serves a population of
approximately 23,200 . No significant industrial users are located within the
service area.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 . Sanitary Sewer System . The City of Millbrae ’s sanitary sewer system is
comprised of approximately 59 miles of gravity sewer pipes, 22 miles of lower
laterals, and 3 pump stations and approximately 1 mile of associated force
mains .
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The treatment process consists of preliminary
screening (two fine bar screens and one coarse bar screen) , grit removal (two
vortex -type grit removal devices) , influent flow equalization (two tanks with a
maximum combined volume of 1.2 million gallons) , primary sedimentation (two
primary clarifiers) , biological activated sludge treatment (two aeration basins) ,
secondary clarification (two secondary clarifiers) , and sodium hypochlorite
disinfection. After disinfection, the plant routes effluent to the South San
Francisco / San Bruno Water Qua lity Control Plant through the NBSU force
main for dechlorination. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average dry weather design flow of 3.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a
peak wet weather capacity of 9.0 MGD . From May 2019 to September 2023,
the plant treated a daily average of 1.5 MGD, with the highest reported average
daily flow being 8.1 MGD .
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with gravity or mechanical thickeners, treats the thickened sludge with
anaerobic digestion, and dewaters the digested sludge with a belt filter press .
City of Millbrae and NBSU Order R2-2024 -0005
City of Millbrae Water Pollution Control Plant NPDES Permit CA0037532
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6Dewatered, treated biosolids are hauled offsite to various land application sites
for beneficial reuse .
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger ’s recycled water use is limited to
onsite applications at the plant. Recycled water is used to wash down and clean
equipment (e.g., bar screens and clarifiers) and for dust control. The Discharger
is evaluating the feasibility of implementing a recycled water program to provide
disinfected tertiary recycled water to existing sites and future development for
landscape irrigation.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes . In 2024, the Discharger plans to repair and reconstruct its
nearshore outfall. The outfall was formerly the Discharger’s primary discharge
point before the NBSU was formed and the deepwater outfall was constructed.
The nearshore outfall will not replace the NBSU outfall described above and will
only serve as an emergency discharge point for the plant. The nearshore outfall
will prov ide an alternate means of discharge when the NBSU force main and/or
outfall is out of service due to routine maintenance or other reasons. This Order
does not authorize such discharges.
2.6. Sea Level Rise. The Discharger projected that under a 100-year flood plus
3.3 feet of sea level rise scenario , portions of the plant would be inundated . This
amount of sea level rise could be expected between the years of 2070 and 2100.
To protect the plant, the shoreline will need to increase in height from one to five
feet, which could include making improvements to the Highline Canal tide gate and
constructing a levee or seawall across Old Bayshore Highway . The Discharger
plans to work with regional partners of the Colma -San Bruno Operational Land
Unit, which include San Francisco International Airport, San Mateo County, and
the cities of South San Francisco, San Bruno, Burlingame, and San Mateo, to
develop cohesive and regional shoreline solutions to sea level rise .
3.