FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Avila Beach Community Services District o wns a wastewater treatment and disposal
system to provide sewerage service to the community of Avila Beach and the Port San Luis
Harbor District. Avila Beach is primarily residential with very little in dustry. Nearby Port San
Luis is mostly recreational and commercial, with few full -time residents. The estimated
population served is approximately 800 people. Combined flows from Avila Beach and Port
San Luis averaged 0.056 million gallons per day (MGD) in 2013. Avila Beach and Port San
Luis are recreational areas and vacation destinations ; consequently, wastewater flow peaks
during summer holidays and weekends. Peak seasonal flows reached 0.111 MGD in 2011.
Portions of the collection system are owned by Avila Beach Community Services District and
Port San Luis Harbor District. Each collection system is operated and maintained by its
respective agency. The collection systems had previously been covered under t he current
permit, with both Avila Beach Community Services District and Port of San Luis Harbor
District as permittees. Avila Beach Community Services District is responsible as the owner
and operator of the wastewater treatment facility and its portion of the collection system. Port
San Luis Harbor District is responsible for its portion of the collection system. Coverage for
collection systems has been transferred to the General Waste Discharge Requirements for
Sanitary Sewer Systems (State Water Board O rder No. 2006- 0003- DWQ ).
Raw wastewater enters the Facility by way of two grinder pumps. From the headworks,
influent enters the primary clarifier in the center and is directed towards the bottoms of the
tank by use of a stilling baffle. Effluent from prim ary clarifier is fed by gravity into a fixed film
reactor sump, where it is then pumped over the fixed film reactor along with a percentage of
recirculation water. Effluent from the fixed film reactor enters a sump that partially recirculates
back to the f ixed film reactor, while the remainder is pumped to two secondary sedimentation
tanks. Effluent from the secondary sedimentation tanks is disinfected with sodium
hypochlorite and then dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite.
Biosolids from the secondary sedim entation tank s are collected and pumped back to the
primary clarifier and ultimately to the anaerobic digester. Biosolids that are collected and
pumped to the anaerobic digester are disposed of by pumping the solids directly from the

AVILA BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2017- 0025
AVILA BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WWTP NPDES NO. CA 0047830


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 bottom of the digester through a 3- inch cam fitting and trucking the material off- site for further
processing.
Effluent leaving the Facility enters the Avila Beach Community Services District’s outfall,
which extends approximately 2, 700 feet offshore—approximately 1,000 feet beyond Avila
Pier—and terminates at an depth of approximately 35 feet in the Pacific Ocean (San Luis
Obispo Bay).
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Faci lity is seeking to accept shipments of brine wastes by truck from business entities
that would otherwise be discharging to the sanitary sewer system. Such wastewaters include
softener regenerant wastes and reverse osmosis brines. Discharges are not permit ted, nor
anticipated, from facilities that would contribute industrial pollutants or cause pass -through
violations, such as metal plating operations or high- strength BOD wastes.
This Order establishes effluent limitations, prohibitions, and monitoring requ irements
applicable to the discharge of brine wastes. Through the requirements of this Order, the
Central Coast Water Board can ensure that discharges of brine remain consistent with
applicable requirements of the Clean Water Act and NPDES implementing regulations, as
well as the Basin and Ocean Plans.

III.