FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
1. Locatio n and Service Areas. The Facility is located at One William Moffett Place in an
unincorporated area of Santa Barbara County, California . The plant site is approximately
10 miles west of the City of Santa Barbara, near the Pacific Coast. The Facility provides
secondary level treatment for the Goleta Sanitary District, the Goleta West Sanitary
District, University of California , Santa Barbara, and the Santa Barbara A irport , which
each have separate collection systems . The total population served is est imated to be
97,238.
2. Collection System. Over 190 miles of pipelines collect wastewater that flows almost
entirely by gravity to pump stations located in each agency's service area. These stations
pump the flow to the treatment facility.
3. Wastewater Treatmen t. Influent from the collection system of each agency is pumped to
the treatment plant headworks where raw wastewater flows through a bar screen that
removes large debris. Influent is then routed to aerated grit tanks where sand and grit are
allowed to set tle out , then are dewatered and sent to a landfill. Wastewater then flows
into one of three primary clarifiers where solids settle to the bottom and floatable
materials are mechanically collected and pumped to the digesters.
The Discharger completed a substantial upgrade of the Facility in December 2013,
allowing the plant to achieve full secondary treatment. The primary effluent moves to a
biofilter to trickle over plastic media where bacteria feed on organic wastes and then
flows to an aeration basin. A portion of the secondary process flow can be diverted to the
reclamation facilities for tertiary treatment with gravity filters. The remaining secondary
effluent flows to the head of the chlorine contact channel where sodium hypochlorite is
injected to kil l bacteria in the effluent. Prior to discharge into the ocean, sodium bisulfite
is added for dechlorination, thus completing the disinfection process.

GOLETA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3 -2017- 0021
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0048160


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 4. Biosolids Management . Settleable solids and floatable materials from the primary
clarifiers are treated i n three heat ed anaerobic sludge digesters for a minimum of 15
days. Sludge from the digesters then flows to one of two stabilization basins. Stabilized
sludge is dredged from the bottom of the basins and is dewatered by two new screw
presses. The digested supernatant from the three anaerobic digesters can also be
diverted from the stabilization basins directly to the screw presses for dewatering.
5. Recycled Water Production. Using coagulation, flocculation, filtration, and chlorination
processes, up to 3.3 MGD (or 11,400 m3/day) of i ts municipal wastewater is terti ary-
treated to meet Title 22 Water Recycling Criteria. Since 1991 and in accordance with
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 91- 03, the Discharger provides recycled
wastewater to the Goleta Water District for landscape irrigation and incidental uses, s uch
as dust control and compaction at construction sites.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Facility does not plan to implement any further changes during the upcoming permit term.
III.