FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The City of Santa Cruz (City) owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment,
and disposal system that provides sewerage service for the City of Santa Cruz and
areas of Santa Cruz County serviced by Santa Cruz County Sanitation District. The
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ ORDER R3-2023-0001
WASTE WATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0048194
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5City of Santa Cruz has been treating sewage at the Facility near Neary Lagoon and
disposing of the effluent in the ocean since 1928. Treatment capacity has been
expanded several times to accommodate the growth of the city and the addition of
flows from San ta Cruz County Sanitation District. The City of Scotts Valley adds its
treated wastewater to the Discharger’s effluent for combined disposal. The collection
system s of the City and County of Santa Cruz comprise 185 miles of gravity sanitary
sewer lines, 4. 2 miles of forced main, and 54 pump stations, all of which discharge
untreated municipal wastewater to the treatment plant. The plant also treats dry
weather flows from Neary Lagoon, septage from unsewered areas, and grease trap
pumping. The Facility’s design, average dry weather treatment capacity is 17 MGD,
with a design peak wet weather treatment capacity of 81 MGD .
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Treatment at the Facility is currently accomplished by screening, aerated grit
removal, primary sedimentation, biological tower trickling filters, solids contact
stabilization, secondary clarification, and disinfection with ultraviolet light. During
storm events and wet weather flows in excess of UV disinfection capacity of 40
MGD, the plant sends excess primary effluent to mix with UV disinfected secondary
effluent and ensures that the permit limits are met before discharge. Biosolids are
processed by anaerobic digestion, then centrifuge dewatering. Stabilized solids are
transported to Merced County and applied to land. Methane gas produced by
anaerobic digestion is used to generate power and heat the digesters at the
treatment facility . Treated wastewater is discharged through a 12,250 -foot
outfall/diffuser system to Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary or for recycling as
described below .
2.2 Pure Water Soquel
Additional discharge through the Facility’s ocean outfall will come from Soquel Creek
Water District’s groundwater replenishment and seawater intrusion prevention
project , known as Pure Water Soquel (PWS Project) , which includes an advanced
water purification facility (AWPF) located at the corner of Chanticleer Avenue and
Soquel Avenue (Chanticleer site ). The PWS Project involves conveying a portion of
the Facility’s disinfected secondary effluent to the AWPF. After treatment at the
AWPF, the water will meet all requirements of a groundwater replenishment reuse
project per Calif ornia Code of Regulations title 22 and will be recharged into the
Santa Cruz Mid -County groundwater basin. The Central Coast Water Board will
regulate the PWS Project under a separate WDRs order . Non-potable r euse (NPR)
water facilities will also be constructed at the Facility to provide the City with
disinfected tertiary non -potable recycled water. This portion of the work is known as
the Santa Cruz NPR Project, which is being constructed as part of Soquel Creek
Water District’s overall program efforts . The production of this recycled water is
regulated by this order .
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ ORDER R3-2023-0001
WASTE WATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0048194
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6A
WPF treatment processes at the Chanticleer site will begin in 202 4 and consist
of ozone pre-treatment, membrane filtration (MF), reverse osmosis (RO), and an
ultraviolet (UV) light advanced oxidation process (AOP). When the PWS Project is
implemented, an average of up to 2.77 MGD will be diverted to the AWPF and the
NPR Project , which will decrease the secondary effluent flow discharged to the
ocean by the same amount. The AWPF will produce three waste residual streams
that will be conveyed to the WWTF for discharge through the City’s existing ocean
outfall. These wastes include: (1) reverse osmosis concentrate (ROC), (2)
backwash from the MF, and (3) MF backwash. The blended wa ste residuals
stream is referred to as the ROC Blend. This permit allows the allow the discharge
of ROC Blend from the AWPF along with disinfected secondary effluent. At no
time will the discharge at the ocean outfall exceed the 81 MGD authorized by this
Order.
The City developed project ions of effluent water quality of the ROC Blend using
concentrations of conventional pollutants for the disinfected secondary effluent
measured from January 2017 through July 2022. Projected water quality of ROC
Blend commingled with disinfected secondary effluent was also provided . To
estimate worst -case , in-pipe concentrations of Ocean Plan pollutants , the City
modeled discharge scenarios with low secondary effluent flows combined with the
maximum ROC Blend flow. The approach and assumptions used to develop these
estimated concentrations is described in Attachment A of the Report of Waste
Discharge and were used in developing dilution ratios discussed in section 2.3.1
of this Fact Sheet.
2.2.1 Startup and Commissioning
Startup and commissioning of the new AWPF is anticipated to begin in early
2024 . Each treatment process will be commissioned over several months
following the order of process flow—from chlorine addition at the so urce water
pump station to ozone, m embrane filt ration , reverse osmosis (RO) , ultraviolet
light advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP), post treatment stabilization, and
finally through the purified water pump station. While the system is being
commissioned, all treated water (e.g. , MF filtrate) and w aste residuals (e.g., MF
backwash waste) will be combined in the ROC wet well and then will flow to the
Facility for discharge through the City’s existing outfall. The start -up,
commissioning , and testing flows are expected to be less than 2.77 MGD.
Chemical treatment during commissioning (e.g., chloramine disinfection, ozone,
and UVAOP) will improve the quality of the return flows compared to the S anta
Cruz WWTF secondary effluent currently being discharged. Physical treatment
(e.g., MF and RO) is not anticipated to change water quality because the waste
residuals from each process will be recombined prior to discharge.
Overall, the water quality being discharged during commissioning is anticipated
to be in compliance with California Ocean Plan requirements, with water quality
equal to or better than the anticipated quality during normal AWPF operatio n.
Discharges associated with startup and commissioning activities of the AWPF to
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ ORDER R3-2023-0001
WASTE WATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0048194
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7t
he Santa Cruz WWTF for discharge through the City’s existing outfall are
authorized by this permit and must meet effluent and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section 2.2 of this Fact Sheet, Soquel Creek Water District is
currently constructing further recycling capacity and beginning in early 2024 will
discharge RO concentrate that comes from the Pure Water Soquel project through
the Discharger’s ocean outfall.
https://www.soquelcreekwater.org/184/Pure -Water -Soquel
3.