wastewater treatment
and disposal facility design and shall include a map depicting features such as the WWTF,
pond, use area, and the location of signs described in Recycled Water Specifications C.1.d.
Upon written approval by the Executive Officer, this Provision will be considered satisfied.

4. By 30 days prior to Phase II WWTF startup, the Discharger shall submit certification that
the proposed WWTF expansion has been built as designed and is capable of complying with
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-090 -10-
GOLDEN VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
LIBERTY HIGH SCHOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUN TY

the terms of this Order. The ce rtification report shall be prepared and certified by a
California registered civil engineer with experience in wastewater treatment and disposal
facility design. Upon written approval by the Executive Officer, this Provision will be
considered satisfied.

5. By 30 days prior to Phase II WWTF startup, the Discharger shall submit an irrigation
management plan to assure that nitrogen application is within the agronomic rates for the
crop thereby minimizing the percolation of nitrogen to groundwater. The certif ication report
shall be prepared and certified by a California registered civil engineer with experience in
wastewater treatment and disposal facility design. Upon written approval by the Executive
Officer, this Provision will be considered satisfied.

6. The Discharger shall maintain a standby emergency power generator of sufficient size to
operate the WWTF and ancillary equipment during periods of loss of commercial power.
The standby emergency power generator shall start and stop automatically and power t ransfer
shall occur automatically.

7. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant -free wastewater to be discharged into the collection,
treatment, and disposal system in amounts that significantly diminish the WWTF’s capability
to comply with this Order. Pollu tant-free wastewater means rainfall, groundwater, cooling
waters, and condensates that, without treatment, are essentially free of pollutants.

8. The Discharger shall implement best practicable treatment and control, including proper
operation and maintenanc e, to comply with this Order.

9. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of
technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may result
in enforcement action, including Board or court orders requiring corrective action or
imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.

10. If there is evidence that reasonable potential exists that pond percolation is contributing to
degradation of groundwater passing beneath and downgradient of the WWTF in violation of
the State Anitidegradation Policy, Resolution 68 -16, the Board may reopen this Order for
consideration of adopting numerical limitations for groundwater passing beneath and
downgradient of the WWTF vici nity that are consistent with maximum benefit to the people
of the State, will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated beneficial use of affected
groundwater, and will not exceed water quality objectives.

11. By 60 days prior to WWTF start -up, the Dis charger shall submit a list of the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of contact persons such as the WWTF operator and school
principal.

12. By 60 days after WWTF start -up, the Discharger shall submit a complete copy of the
WWTF’s operations and maintena nce manual.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-01-090 -11-
GOLDEN VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
LIBERTY HIGH SCHOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUN TY


13. The Discharger shall report promptly to the Board any material change or proposed change in
the character, location, or volume of the discharge.

14. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the WWTF for reference by personnel responsible for
the mai ntenance and operation of the WWTF. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with
its contents.

15. In the event of any change in control or ownership of the WWTF presently owned or
controlled by the Discharger, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding ow ner or operator of
the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this
office.

To assume operation under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply in
writing to the Executive Officer requesting trans fer of the Order. The request must contain
the requesting entity's full legal name, the state of incorporation if a corporation, the names
and address and telephone number of the persons responsible for contact with the Board, and
a statement. The statem ent shall comply with the signatory paragraph of Standard
Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or operator assumes full responsibility for
compliance with this Order. Failure to submit the request shall be considered a discharge
without requirements , a violation of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved
or disapproved by the Executive Officer.

16. Within 30 days following any change in name or title of contact persons (e.g., such as chief
administrative officer or chief plant operator), the Discharger shall notify the Board in
writing of such change and identify the name(s), title(s), address(es), and telephone
number(s) of such person(s).

17. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.

I, GAR Y M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and correct
copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley
Region, on 27 April 2001 .


 _______________________________ ___
 GARY M. CARLTON , Executive Officer

BLH:fmc: 4/27/01
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

ORDER NO. 5-01-090

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
FOR
GOLDEN VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
LIBERTY HIGH SCHOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY

Specific sample station locations shall be established at the wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) with
concurrence of the Board’s staff. A description of the stations shall be submitted to the Board and
attached to this Program.

INFLUENT MONITORING

Influent samples shall be collected at the inlet of the headworks and at approximately the same time as
effluent samples. Influent monitoring shall include at le ast the following:

Constituents Units Type of Sample Sampling Frequency
BOD 51 mg/L 8-hr composite2 2/month3
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 8-hr composite2 2/month3
Settleable Solids mL/L Grab 2/month3
1 Five-day, 20C biochemical oxygen demand
2 Composit e samples may consist of flow -proportioned grab samples.
3 During nonconsecutive weeks

EFFLUENT MONITORING

Flow may be measured either at the headworks or at the outlet from the treatment system (i.e., discharge
to the pond). Effluent samples shall be collected subsequent to disinfection and prior to discharge to the
pond. The sampling frequency shall be as indicated below unless results of monitoring a pollutant
appear to violate