FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The City provides sewerage service for commercial and residential uses within the City of
Manteca and portions of the City of Lathrop and serves a population of approximately
97,000. The City has an approved EPA pr etreatment program that has two non-
categorical significant industrial user (SIU) and one categorical SIU’s. The municipal
wastewater collection system consists of two main lines servicing the City of Manteca that
includes 243 miles of sewer mains with 18 pump stations, and another line servicing the
City of Lathrop that is connected by 27 miles of sewer mains. The collection systems are
regulated under State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order 2006 -
0003. A separate industrial line accep ts food processing wastewater seasonally from
Eckert Cold Storage from about May through November. Eckert Cold Storage processes
frozen vegetabl es (e.g., cabbage and a variety of peppers), and discharges primarily
wastewater from the cutting and washing of these vegetables. At times, the food
processing wastewater is mixed with wastewaters from clean -up of the processing
equipment, freezer defrost waters, and cooling towers. The food processing wastewater
is stored and aerated in a lined pond, and then appl ied to agricultural fields when needed.
Use of land disposal onto agricultural fields is being phased out as the City is using more
of its land for commercial development.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility has a design average dry weather flow capacity of 9.87 MGD and its
treatment process is divided into two parallel treatment systems, the north and south
treatment systems. Primary treatment is identical in both systems and consists of
mechanic al screening, aera ted grit removal, and primary sedimentation. At the north
plant, the primary effluent may undergo additional treatment through two biotowers
with high -rate plastic media (currently out of service) . The secondary treatment
processe s for bo th treatment syste ms a re the same, consisting of conventional
activated sludge, including nitrification -denitrification, followed by secondary
sedimentation. Grit and screenings are hauled offsite to a landfill for disposal.
Undisinfected secondary effluen t is either stored for agricultural use in a 15-million -
gallon pond or blended with treated food processing wastewater and applied directly
to agricultural fields. The agricultural fields are used to grow crops for dairy feed.
The land application area con sists of 10 fields located on land owned by the City
(Fields 2 through 11 – Field 7 is out of service and Field 10 was sold in mid -2018).
The City -owned agricultural fields total approximately 167 acres surrounding the
Facility.
Tailwater from the irrigati on fields percolat es into the soil or is recirculated into the
irrigation system. Tailwater from Fields 2, 4, and a small portion of 5, is collected in a
sump and pumped back to the irrigation s upply system. Most of Field 5 is currently
used as a storm water drainage basin. Tailwater from Field 3 drains to a sump and
pumped into the pond for irrigation. Tailwater from Fields 6 and 9E percolates into
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER R5 -2021 -0003
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0081558


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 6 the soil. Tailwater from Field 9W drains to adjacent unused land that does not
contain an outlet.
Secondary e ffluent in excess of crop demands undergoes tertiary treatment through
rapid mixing, flocculation, cloth media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The
disinfected tertiary recycled water is pumped from the Facility to its Truck Fill Station,
located at the entran ce of the Facility. The Truck Fill Station provides access for
construction vehicles and vactor trucks to receive recycled water for construction
and sewer cleaning purposes. The City also has one recycled water user, the Great
Wolf Lodge where water is se nt for landscape irrigation . Remaining disinfected
tertiary level treated effluent is discharge d year-round to the San Joaquin River
through a 36 -inch diameter pipe.
Sludge removed from primary sedimentation is pumped directly to anaerob ic
digesters while sludge from secondary sedimentation is thickened by dissolved air
flotation and then pumped to anaerobic digesters. After digestion, the treated sludge
is dewatered by centrifuge. Dried biosolids, grit, and screenings are hauled offsite to
a privately -owned landfill for disposal.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. Facility Upgrades. The City is not currently planning to expand the Facility
from 9.87 MGD to 17.5 MGD during the term of this Order. The Facility
currently nitrifies and denitrifies tertiary-level treated effluent. The City prepared
and submitted for public review a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) that
addressed the expansion project. The increased discharge will be primarily for
effluent discharges to the San Joaquin River because the City determined that
it’s impracticable to acquire additional agricultural fields; however, the City is
CITY OF MANTECA ORDER R5 -2021 -0003
WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0081558


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 11 seeking to expand its Title 22 recycled water program (e.g., baseball field,
parks). Consistent with Order R5 -2015-0026, this Order conditionally authorize s
the increase of the permitted average dry weather flow from 9.87 MGD to 17.5
MGD upon the demonstration of compliance with Effluent Limitations IV.A.1,