FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Redding and serves a 
population of approximately 74,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility 
is 8.8 million gallons per day (MGD ). ORDER R5-2 022-0040  
NPDES NO. CA0
079731 
CITY OF REDDING  
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility is permitted to discharge up to 8.8 MGD ADWF. Liquid stream treatment 
processes include influent screening, grit removal, primary clarification, aeration 
basins, secondary clarification, filtration, and disinfection. Sludge is anaerobically 
digested and dewatered using a centrifuge. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill.   
Influent Flow . A majority of the Facility’s influent raw sewage is received by two 
influent pump stations, which lifts the raw sewage to the headworks facility for 
preliminary treatment through a 36-inch force main. The hydraulic capacity of the 
main line is 60 MGD. Raw sewage from the Redding Rancheria's Win-River Resort 
& Casino (Casino) is conveyed directly to the headworks via a 6-inch diameter force 
main. Flow from the influent pump stations to the headworks facility is metered and 
can be controlled with the Facility’s supervisory control and data acquisition 
(SCADA) system. Influent raw sewage flow that exceeds the operational setpoint is 
diverted to equalization ponds (Ponds 1A and 1B) by a control valve. The total flow 
entering the main treatment train can be quantified as the summation of the flow 
from the influent pump station to headworks and flow from the Casino.  
Preliminary Treatment . The headworks consist of two micro screens, a Parshall 
flume, a grit chamber, and weirs for flow control and distribution. The micro screens 
have a hydraulic capacity of 30 MGD each. Washed screenings are compacted prior 
to discharge to a dumpster. Screenings and grit from the headworks are currently 
sent to West Central Landfill.  
Primary Treatment . Screened influent flows from the grit chamber to one of two 95-
foot diameter conventional primary clarifiers with a design capacity of 15 MGD each. 
Primary overflows to the Primary Effluent Distribution Structure, where it is routed to 
secondary treatment. The Facility also has the option to utilize Chemically-Enhanced 
Primary Treatment (CEPT), as necessary, during wet weather events. The CEPT 
uses a coagulant (ferric chloride and an anionic emulsion polymer) to enhance 
flocculation and coagulation during primary clarification. The CEPT enhancement 
allow for the primary clarifiers to process a combined flow greater than 30 MGD. 
Ferric chloride can be added to the primary influent at the Parshall flume upstream 
of the grit chamber, and polymer can be added at the primary clarifier splitter inside 
the grit chamber.  
Primary Solids . Settled primary solids are pumped from the bottom of the clarifiers 
to the primary anaerobic digesters. The Facility has three primary anaerobic 
digesters. Primary scum is captured by scum skimmers and sent to the primary 
scum skimmings wet well. The contents of the wet well are periodically pumped to 
the digesters.  
Secondary Treatment . The secondary treatment system consists of three aeration 
basins and four secondary clarifiers. The original mechanical surface aeration basins 
at the Facility were recently retrofitted, reconfiguring the original square, complete 
mix-activated sludge basins to a serpentine flow pattern that approximates a
rectangular plug-flow basin. Each basin now utilizes a diffused air system and hasORDER R5-2 022-0040  
NPDES NO. CA0
079731 
CITY OF REDDING  
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8been configured as the Modified Ludzack Ettinger (MLE) activated sludge process. 
The MLE process consists of an anoxic zone followed by an aerobic zone, with 
internal mixed liquor recycle to recycle aerobic effluent back to the anoxic zone for 
denitrification of ammonia oxidized to nitrate in the aerobic zone. As compared to the 
previous complete mixed basins, the new activated sludge process provides the 
benefits of removing nitrogen, recovering oxygen, conserving alkalinity, and 
conditioning the biomass for good sludge settleability. The secondary clarifiers are of 
the center-feed, rim-collection type. Clarified effluent is collected in launders 
attached to the inside perimeter of the clarifier. Clarifiers 1, 2, and 3 are 80-foot 
diameter units, while Clarifier 4 is a 120-foot diameter unit. The secondary clarifiers 
have a total hydraulic capacity of 60 MGD. Activated sludge accumulates and 
thickens over the clarifier floor, where it is collected and pumped to the Return 
Activated Sludge/Mixed Liquor Return (RAS/MLR) distribution box for mixing and 
distribution to the aeration basins.  
Secondary Solids . Scum and Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) are pumped to the 
DAFT mixing facility prior to conveyance to the primary anaerobic digesters.  
Filtration . Secondary effluent flows from the secondary clarifiers to the secondary 
effluent diversion box where it is directed to either a cloth-media disk filter system or 
a conventional deep-bed, dual media filter system. Currently all flow is being filtered 
using the cloth media filtration system, with the conventional media filters held in 
standby for high flows or for backup of the cloth filters, as necessary. The cloth-
media filtration system and the conventional media filters have an hydraulic capacity 
of 24 MGD and 16 MGD, respectively, with a combined filter capacity of 
approximately 40 MGD. Backwash from the filters is discharged to backwash 
equalization basins that ultimately flow back to the influent pump station.  
Disinfection: Chlorination and Dechlorination . Chlorine gas is stored in 1-ton 
containers and is used to make a concentrated chlorine/water solution to disinfect 
the filtered secondary effluent. Disinfection contact time is provided in the chlorine 
contact chamber and in two 3000-foot parallel pipelines that carry effluent south to 
the effluent outfall building. A sulfur dioxide/water solution is injected into the 
secondary effluent flow stream for dechlorination near the outfall building just after 
the two parallel pipelines join into a single pipeline.  
Outfall . The outfall facilities include the outfall weir structure, dry and wet-weather 
diffuser pipes, emergency effluent diversion and flow measurement and sampling 
systems. The weir controls flow from the 66-inch filtered effluent pipeline, 
maintaining full pipe flow to provide additional chlorine contact time past the chlorine 
contact chamber. Effluent flow past the weir splits between the dry-weather and wet-
weather diffuser pipes. The dry-weather diffuser pipe is designed for flow up to 30 
MGD. Flow above 30 MGD is diverted into the second outfall diffuser. The weir 
structure is equipped with two stop log weirs, one serving each outfall. The weir 
elevations can be split adjusted by installing or removing stop logs to achieve the 
desired flow split. The dry-weather diffuser is the primary diffuser and is used 
continuously throughout the yea r. The wet weather diffuser’s hydraulic capacity is  
30 MGD and accommodates Facility effluent flows above 30 MGD and up to  ORDER R5-2 022-0040  
NPDES NO. CA0
079731 
CITY OF REDDING  
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-960 MGD. The Facility operates an emergency bypass system that discharges 
effluent to Pond 6 in an event of excessive chlorine residual or low pH at the outfall 
building. The plant alarm is initiated during such an event signaling immediate 
operator attention.  
Anaerobic Digestion . The Facility has three primary digesters and one secondary 
digester, each with a 65-foot diameter and a working volume of 662,000 gallons. The 
primary digesters can process solids directly from the primary and secondary 
clarifiers. Biodegradation of organic materials and production of methane gas and 
carbon dioxide take place in the primary digesters, which are continually mixed and 
heated within the mesophilic temperature range (approximately 95°F). Digested 
solids from the primary digesters overflows by gravity to the secondary digester or 
can be pumped. Fitted with a floating gasholder cover, the secondary digester stores 
primary digested sludge and biogas produced in the primary digesters. Biogas is 
used to fuel hot water boilers for digester heating with natural gas as a secondary 
fuel. Excess biogas is combusted at a single conventional flare located east of the 
CEPT facility. Digested sludge can be withdrawn from the bottom of the secondary 
digester and transferred to the facultative sludge ponds or to solids dewatering. The 
Facility also has two DAFT units which may be utilized to thicken primary solids and 
WAS.  
Sludge Dewatering and Disposal . After digestion sludge is dewatered by one of 
the Facility’s two centrifuges. Centrate from the dewatering process is currently 
routed to Pond 5A and 5B for equalization and ultimately metered back to the 
Facility headworks for treatment. Currently centrate is discharged to Pond 5A and 
5B approximately 4 days per week at a rate of 100 gallons per minute (6- 7 
hours/day).  
Pond System . The Facility has 13 ponds used for influent flow equalization, 
emergency storage, and facultative treatment and/or centrifuge centrate 
management, and solids drying (if necessary). Ponds 1A and 1B are concrete-lined 
basins capable of receiving raw sewage, primary effluent and secondary effluent. A 
standpipe located in Pond 1A provides emergency secondary effluent overflow if 
head level in the secondary effluent distribution box exceeds total filtration capacity. 
Emergency bypass of primary effluent (from primary effluent distribution box) and 
secondary effluent (from secondary effluent collection structure and secondary 
effluent distribution box) can discharge to Pond 1A. Additionally, raw sewage from 
the influent pump station can discharge to Ponds 1B, 2, 3A, 3B, 4, 5A, 5B, 6, 7, 8, 9, 
and 10 through a series of manually operated valves. Ponds 1A and 1B are 
concrete-lined. Ponds 3A and 3B have clay-lined bottoms with shotcrete lined banks. 
Ponds 5A and 5B are constructed with a hydraulic asphalt-lined bottom and high 
density polyethylene-lined banks and are being used for centrifuge centrate flow 
management. Flow from the ponds can return to the influent pump station and is 
measured at a meter vault located between Pond 1A and the filtration system. All 
ponds have electronic level indicators and transmit level to the Facility’s SCADA 
system . Historically, Ponds 3A, 3B, 5A, and 5B were used as the Facility’s 
facultative sludge lagoons (FSLs); however upgrades to the Facility’s solids 
treatment and handling processes has negated the need of the FSLs for solids ORDER R5-2 022-0040  
NPDES NO. CA0
079731 
CITY OF REDDING  
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10stabilization. Currently, the Discharger is utilizing Pond 5A and 5B as centrifuge 
centrate equalization and Pond 3A and 3B for emergency storage.  
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1.The Facility is located in section 31, T31N, R4W, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2.Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to
Sacramento River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 40° 29’ 5 6.5 ” N
and longitude 122° 21’ 36.5” W.
3.Discharge Point No. 001 is located within the Enterprise Flat Hydrologic Area
(508.10) of the Redding Hydrologic Unit as defined by the interagency hydrologic
map for the Sacramento Hydrologic Basin prepared by the Department of Water
Resources (1986).
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R5-2017-0010 for discharges from Discharge 
Point D-001  (Monitoring Location EFF-001) and representative monitoring data from 
the term of Order R5-2017-0010  are as follows: 
Table F- 2. Historic Effluent Limitations 
Parameter Units Historic 
Effluent 
Limitations Highest 
Average 
Monthly 
Discharge Highest 
Average 
Weekly 
Discharge Highest 
Daily 
Discharge 
Biochemical Oxygen 
Demand (5-day @ 
20°C) mg/L AMEL 10 
AWEL 15 
MDEL 30 4.8 6.5 7 
Total Suspended Solids mg/L AMEL 10 
AWEL 15 
MDEL 30 2.8 6.4 24.4 
pH S.U. Instantaneous 
Max 8.0 
Instantaneous 
Min 6.0 -- -- Max = 7.81 
Min = 6.03 
Ammonia Nitrogen, 
Total (as N) mg/L AMEL 2.80 
AWEL 4.83 1.28 3.44 -- 
Nitrate plus Nitrite, 
Total (as N) mg/L AMEL 19.9 
AWEL 27.7  10.98 12.1 -- 
Copper, Total 
Recoverable µg/L AMEL 20.2 
MDEL 32.0 11.6 -- 11.6 
Chlorodibromomethane µg/L AMEL 3.56 
MDEL 7.20 1.84 -- 1.84 ORDER R5-2 022-0040  
NPDES NO. CA0
079731 
CITY OF REDDING  
CLEAR CREEK WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-11Parameter Units Historic 
Effluent 
Limitations Highest 
Average 
Monthly 
Discharge Highest 
Average 
Weekly 
Discharge Highest 
Daily 
Discharge 
Dichlorobromomethane µg/L AMEL 15.56 
MDEL 29.22 13.9 -- 13.9 
Zinc, Total Recoverable µg/L AMEL 79.7 
MDEL 116.7 49.6 -- 49.6 
Acute Whole Effluent 
Toxicity % 
survival Any one test: 70 
Three 
consecutive 
tests: 90 100 
100 -- -- 
Total Chlorine Residual mg/L 1-hour average:
0.019
4-day average:
0.011ND ND -- 
Total Coliform 
Organisms Most 
probable 
number 
per 100 
milliliters 
(MPN/10
0mL) 7-day median:
23
30-day period:
240-- 7-day: 57 30-day:
110
D. Compliance Summary
The Discharger committed 5 violations of effluent limitations for total coliforms, 4 
exceedances of the monitoring trigger for chronic toxicity, and 1 violation of the 
monitoring requirements for electrical conductivity. The Central Valley Water Board 
issued a Notice of Violation o n 6 July 2021  notifying the Discharger of these 
violations.  
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the next five years a Pyrolysis system is projected to be installed at the 
Facility. The Pyrolysis system will be added to the process after the c entrifuge . 
Biosolids will be dried to approximately 80 percent solids. The dried solids will enter 
the pyrolysis unit and be heated to 1400 degrees Fahrenheit. This process will 
discharge a ninety-nine percent dried carbon-based product known as Biochar. 
Biochar is a chemically inert product that can be recycled in a number of ways 
including soil amendments and carbon filtration media. As a result, the Discharger 
does not anticipate the need to haul Facility biosolids to the landfill for disposal.  
III.