wastewater treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monito ring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the
calibrations (Standard Provision C.4).
4. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly aver age discharge flow for the previous three
calendar years.
5. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discha rge into full compliance with this Order.
6. An evaluation of the facility’s annual average effluent EC (monitored at
EFF-001) to the Salinity Action Level of 1,300 µmhos/cm . If the facility’s discharge
exceeds the Salinity Action Level, the Discharger sha ll submit a Salinity Action
Level Report by 1 March of the year following the exceedance of the Salinity Action
Level as described in the WDRs Order .
7. Copy of the Public Water System’s most recent Consumer Confidence Report.
8. Tabulated summary of all monitoring data collected over the year.
9. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling
plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and
operated, and the dates when these documents were last revi ewed for adequacy.
10. Annual production of total sludge/biosolids in dry tons or cubic yards (if applicable) .
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0059 11
LAMONT PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT AND
RECOLOGY BLOSSOM VALLE YORGANICS SOUTH
LAMONT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
11. A description of the sludge/biosolids disposal methods (if applicable) , including the
following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one method is
used, including the percentage disposed of by each method.
a) For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order
number of WDRs that regulate it.
b) For land application, include: t he location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
c) For incineration, include: the name and locations of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of
ash, and the nam e and location of the facility receiving as (if applicable).
d) For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs
that regulate it.
VI. VOLUMETRIC REPORTING
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/),
amended in December 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled wa ter are
required to report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced, and effluent,
including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall submit an annual report
to the State Water Board by April 30 of each calendar year furnis hed with the information
detailed below. The Discharger must submit this annual report containing monthly data in
electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet GeoTracker system
(http://geotrac ker.waterboards.ca.gov/). Required data shall be submitted to the
GeoTracker database under a site -specific global identification number. Any data will be
made publicly accessible as machine readable datasets. The Discharger must report all
applicable item s listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of influent wastewater collected and treated by the
wastewater treatment facility.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of treatment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to each of the
following, specifying level of treatment:
a) Inland surface waters, specifying volume required to maintain minimum instream
flow.
b) Enclosed bays, estuaries and coastal lagoons, and ocean wat ers.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0059 12
LAMONT PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT AND
RECOLOGY BLOSSOM VALLE YORGANICS SOUTH
LAMONT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
c) Natural systems, such as wetlands, wildlife habitats, and duck clubs, where
augmentation or restoration has occurred, and that are not part of a wastewater
treatment plant or water recycling treatment plant.
d) Underground injections wells, such as those classified by U.S. EPA’s
Underground Injection Control Program, excluding groundwater recharge via
subsurface application intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a coastal
aquifer with a seawater interface.
e) Land, where beneficial uses is not t aking place, including evaporation or
percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding pasture
or fields with harvested crops.
4. Reuse . Monthly volume of recycled water distributed.
5. Reuse Categories. Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for beneficial
use in compliance with California Code of Regulations, title 22 in each of the use
categories listed below:
a) Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
b) Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and playgrounds; school
yards; athletic fields; cemeteries; residential landscaping, common areas;
commercial landscaping; industrial landscaping; and freeway, highway, and
street landscaping.
c) Golf course irrigation: irrigation of golf cours es, including water used to maintain
aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
d) Commercial application : commercial facilities, business use (such as laundries
and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and appurtenant landscaping
that is not separately metered.
e) Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, process water,
and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
f) Geothermal energy production: augmentation of geothermal fields.
g) Other non -potable use s: including but not limited to dust control, flushing
sewers, fire protection, fill stations, snow making, and recreational
impoundments.
h) Groundwater recharge: the planned use of recycled water for replenishment of
groundwater basin or an aquifer that has been designated as a source of water
supply for a public water system. Includes surface or subsurface application,
except for seawater intrusion barrier use.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0059 13
LAMONT PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT AND
RECOLOGY BLOSSOM VALLE YORGANICS SOUTH
LAMONT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
i) Seawater intrusion barrier: groundwater recharge via subsurface application
intended to red uce seawater intrusion into a coastal aquifer with a seawater
interface.
j) Reservoir water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a
raw surface water reservoir used as a source of domestic drinking water supply
for a public water syste m, as defined in section 116275 of the Health and Safety
Code, or into a constructed system conveying water to such a reservoir (Water
Code section 13561).
k) Raw water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a
system of pipelines or aqu educts that deliver raw water to drinking water
treatment plant that provides water to a public water system as defined in
section 116275 of the Health and Safety Code (Water Code section 13561).
l) Other potable uses: both indirect and direct potable reus e other than for
groundwater recharge, seawater intrusion barrier, reservoir water augmentation,
or raw water augmentation.
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of
this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial
enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take other
enforcement actions. Failure to comply with this Order may result in the assessment of
Administrative Civil Liability of up to $10,000 per violation, per day, depending on the
violation, pursuant to the Water Code, including sections 13268, 13350 and 13385. The
Central Valley Water Board reserves its right to take any enforcement actions authorized by
law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may petition the State
Water Resources Control Board to review the action in accordance with California Water
Code section 13320 and California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 20 50 and following.
The State Water Resources Control Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m., 30 days
after the date of this MRP , except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this Order falls
on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petit ion must be received by the State Water
Resources Control Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the law and
regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found on the internet
(http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices/petitions/water_quality) or will be provided on
request .
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0059 14
LAMONT PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT AND
RECOLOGY BLOSSOM VALLE YORGANICS SOUTH
LAMONT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program starting 1 November 2022 .
I, PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the forgoing is a full, true and
correct copy of the Monitoring and Reporting Program R5 -2022-0059 issued by the California
Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 14 October 2022.
PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Office
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0059 15
LAMONT PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT AND
RECOLOGY BLOSSOM VALLEY ORGANICS SOUTH
LAMONT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
VII. GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO 3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots over a 24 -hour period .
Daily Every day except weekends or holidays.
Twice Weekly Twice per week on non -consecutive days.
Weekly Once per week.
Twice Monthly Twice per month during non -consecutive weeks.
Monthly Once per calendar month.
Quarterly Once per calendar quarter.
Semiannually Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) during non -
consecutive quarters .
Twice Annually Twice per calendar year.
Annually Once per year. Annual samples shall be collected in the third quarter
between July and September.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis shall include; alkalinity (as CaCO 3), bicarbonate (asCaCO 3),
boron, calcium, carbonate (as CaCO 3), chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrate as N, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, and
verification that the analysis is complete (i.e., cation/anion balance).