Existing Facility and Discharge

12. The existing WWTF has been in operation since 1968. The WWTF receives
wastewater from the Berryessa Highlands Subdivision, w hich consists of
343 Equivalent Dwelling Units (EDUs). At full build out, the subdivision would have up
to 562 EDUs. Steele Park Resort, a United States Bureau of Reclamation
(Reclamation) concessionaire- operated facility also discharged domestic wastewater
to the WWTF . Steele Park Resort closed in 2009 due to an expired concession
contract and all infrastructure , inclu ding the sewer connection to the WWTF, was
removed. The WWTF also receives approximately 3,000 gpd of filter backwash from
the Discharger’s potable water treatment plant.

13. Wastewater is conveyed to the WWTF by gravity sewers, lift stations, and force
mains. The existing treatment plant provides secondary treatment by an extended
aeration activated sludge process. It comprises a single inlet structure, two concrete
aeration basins, two clarifiers, and three small geosynthetic -lined effluent storage
ponds. The effluent storage ponds have a total capacity of approximately
370,000 gallons.

14. Disinfection is accomplished using a sodium hypochlorite feed system. One of the
effluent storage ponds serves as a chlorine contact basin and the effluent channel is
used for chlorin e addition.

15. The treated , disinfected wastewater is pumped to a 50,000 gallon storage tank at the
effluent disposal site prior to being discharged to an approximately 60- acre spray
field. Manual isolation valves control which zone(s) receive effluent. The effluent
disposal site is southeast and approximately 500 feet above the treatment plant .

16. Wasted sludge from the treatment plant is re-circulated with the incoming raw
wastewater or pumped into a sludge dewatering container (Geo- Tube or equivalent)
for dewatering and drying. Once dried, the sludge is hauled offsite to a permitted
landfill for disposal .
 17. The spray field consists of four fields (Zones 1 through Zone 4), each with a tailwater
collection system to convey tailwater to a 1.5 million gallon tailwater collection pond.
Tailwater is recycled back to the spray field. The spray field vegetation consists of
native trees, brush, and grass es.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -4-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY



18. Spray field operations are summarized below. Tailwater runoff drains into an
intermittent stream located within Zone 1 or into a tailwater collection ditch that is
located along the western edge of each spray zone. The intermittent stream and
tailwater collection ditch conveys all tailwater to the south side of the tailwater
collection pond. The location of each spray field zone is shown on Attachment B,
which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.

a. An east -west trending intermittent stream divides Zone 1 into a northern and
southern portion and runs south of the existing tailwater collection pond. A low berm lies between the northern portion of Zone 1 and the stream, channeling
run-off from this section to the west and into the tailwater collection pond directly
through a drainage culvert. The berm prevent s tailwater and storm water from
flowing into the intermittent stream. Effluent is discharged to this area year round, and storm water runoff is retained in the tailwater collection pond.

b. The south side of Zone I drains to the intermittent stream. Based on the
topography within Zone 2, the north side of Zone 2 also drains to the intermittent stream. When the spray field is in use, a coffer dam located within the stream is
closed to divert tailwater from the stream channel into the tailwater collection pond. These areas are used for effluent disposal only during the dry season. During the rainy season, the coffer dam remains opened to allow storm water runoff to drain
to natural drainage courses.

c. The south side of Zone 2 and all of Zone 3 and Zone 4 drain to a tailwater
collection ditch that runs along the western edge of the spray field. The collection
ditch conveys the tailwater to the southern side of the tailwater collection pond.
These areas are used for effluent disposal only during the dry season. During the
rainy season, several gate valves along the tailwater ditch are opened to allow
storm water runoff to drain from the ditch to natural drainage courses.
 19. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge

23. In order to comply with the 2012 CDO and provide sufficient treatment, storage, and
disposal capacity for anticipated build out , including the planned Reclamation Resort
at the site of the former Steele Park Resort, the Discharger proposes to make major
improvements to the WWTF, as discuss ed below.

24. The existing manual bar screen will be replaced with a rotary drum screen, and the existing sludge dewatering area will be reconstructed with a concrete pad.
 25. A membrane bioreactor (MBR) package treatment plant system with a new flow meter
will replace the existing extended aeration treatment system. The MBR system will be located within the largest of the three existing wastewater storage ponds. This existing pond will be excavated, filled, and re -compacted prior to the installation of the
MBR system. The pond liner will be removed and disposed of of f-site.

26. The Discharger will continue to disinfect the wastewater, using the existing chlorine
feed pump. Chlorine contact time will be achieved in one of the existing wastewater
storage ponds and pipelines prior to delivery to the new expansion storage ponds.

27. Improvements to the treatment plant will produce disinfected secondary -23 effluent .
With respect to BOD, nitrogen and salinity, effluent quality is expected to remain the
same.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -7-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY



28. The improvements project includes three new effluent storage ponds at the effluent
disposal site and expansion of the existing tailwater collection pond for a total off-site
effluent storage capacity of approximately 20.1 million gallons. The ponds will be
used to store treated effluent during wet weather months and wastewater will be
discharged to the existing spray field primarily during dry weather months. Effluent
from the ponds is pumped to the existing 50,000 gallon storage tank prior to
distribution to the 60- acre spray field. Each pond will be lined with a 60-mil high
density polyethylene (HDPE) geomembrane liner. The ponds will be interconnected
to allow flows from the treatment plant to be equalized between the storage ponds.
Pond locations are shown on Attachment B. A process flow diagram of the proposed treatment processes is shown on Attachment C, which is at tached hereto and made
part of this Order by reference . Pond descriptions are discussed below:

a. Pond 1 is the existing tailwater collection pond, which will be expanded f or effluent
storage and a collection point for any tailwater returned from the spray field.
Storage capacity with a 2- foot freeboard is approximately 2.9 million gallons.

b. Pond 2 is a new effluent storage pond with a s torage capacity approximately
3.9 million gallons with a 2- foot freeboard.

c. Pond 3 is a new effluent storage pond, with a s torage capacity approximately
4.1 million gallons with a 2- foot freeboard.

d. Pond 4 is a new effluent storage pond with a s torage capacity approximately
9.3 million gallons with a 2- foot freeboard.

29. During wet weather months (typically October through May), treated wastewater will
be stored in the proposed storage ponds and there will be limited discharges to the
spray field as weather permits. The Discharger anticipates between 5 to 16 days
available for wastewater disposal (based on the 24 hour post -storm criteria for a
100-year return period) with less than 2 inches of effluent applied over the spray field
per month during the wet weather months. During dry weather months (April through
October), treated wastewater will be discharged to the spray field at typical rates of
3 to 5 inches per month.

30. The Discharger is anticipating a future connection from the planned Reclamation
Resort , which is within the service area of the Resort Improvement District . Influent
flows fr om the resort were projected as follows:
a. For current land use (year 2012 projections) , the average daily wastewater flow
rate was estimated to be approximately 14,000 gallons per day (gpd).
b. For full build out (year 2020 projections), the peak daily wastewater flow rate was
estimated to be 35,500 gpd.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -8-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


c. A proposed aerated flow equalization tank at the Reclamation Resort will allow a
maximum of 15,000 gpd of wastewater to be discharged to the NBRID WWTF.

31. The Discharger plans major improvements to the potable water treatment plant that
serves the District. Improvements will be completed by October 2013. Anticipated
backwash flows to the WWTF will range from 1,500 to 7,500 gpd, with increased water demands anticipated during the dry weather months. Historically, the WWTF received approximately 3,000 gpd of backwash water .

32. The Discharger’s April 2013 revised water balance was based on a 100- year return
period 365- day precipitation event and 2020 WWTF projections, which includes
wastewater from the Berryessa Highlands subdivision at full build -out and a maximum
flow of 15,000 gpd from the Reclamation Resort. The water balance demonstrates
that the WWTF will have a 36.4 million gallon (MG) total annual flow storage and
disposal capacity.

33. Sewer collection system repairs consisting of excavation and repair of certain sewer
lines identified in the Preliminary Revised Inflow/Infiltration Assessment Report and
Preliminary Revised Wastewater Facilities Plan dated October 2011 will be performed
to reduce the amount of inflow and infiltration .

Site-Specific Conditions
 34. The community water supply is from Lake Berryessa. Based on 2009 through 2011
Consumer Confidence Report s, the chemical character of the water supply is
summarized below:

 Water Supply Analytical Results , mg/L unless noted
Parameter 2009 2010 2011
TDS 180 200 190
EC, µmhos/cm 360 350 350
Total hardness 170 180 160
Chloride 4.2 5.7 6.5
Sodium 10 9.4 11
Nitrate as NO 3, µg/L < 2.0 4.3 4.6
Sulfate 22 22 21
Iron < 0.02 0.12 0.12
Manganese < 0.02 < 0.02 < 0.02

TDS denotes total dissolved solids. EC denotes electrical conductivity.

35. The wastewater treatment plant is at an elevation of approximately 500 feet above
mean sea level (MSL), and the area around the plant drains northeast to Lake
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -9-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


Berryessa. The effluent disposal and new storage pond site is on the western slope
of Wragg Ridge with elevations ranging from 550 to 1,000 feet MSL and also drains
to Lake Berryessa. The effluent disposal site is characterized by moderately steep to
steep slopes ( 30 to 75 percent ) with intervening westerly flowing seasonal drainages.
The effluent disposal site supports a dense growth of native grasses with scattered
oak trees and dense areas of brush.

36. Surrounding land uses are primarily open space. Annual precipitation in the vicinity
averages approximately 24 inches, the 100- year total annual precipitation is
approximately 74 inches, and the reference evapotranspiration rate is approximately
45 inches per year. All portio ns of the WWTF are outside the 100-year floodplain.

Groundwater Considerations
 37. Based on soil surveys published by the Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS) , the WWTF is located in areas where predominant surficial soils are of the
Bressa- Dibble complex (30 to 75 percent slopes). The Bressa- Dibble complex is
characterized by low plasticity clays (silt loams) formed from weathering of the underlying shale and sandstone. The depth to bedrock averages approximately
35 inches. The NRCS characterizes these soils as well -drained, slightly acidic,
moderately saline, and poorly suited for wastewater ponds, leach fields, and irrigation disposal of wastewater because of the steep slopes, low permeability, and the shallow depth to bedrock.

38. A total of seven monitoring wells were installed wi thin the effluent storage and
disposal site. In April 2007, three monitoring wells, MW -1 through MW -3, were
installed around the existing tailwater collection pond. In November 2012, the
Discharger installed four additional monitoring wells , MW-1A and MW -4 through
MW-6 (previously identified as MW -2A, MW -3A, and MW -4A). Their l ocations are
shown on Attachment B. Well survey data and construction details are summarized
below.

Well ID Total
Depth
(feet) Reference
Elevation 1,2
(feet) Top of Screen
Elevation
(feet) Bottom of Screen
Elevation
(feet) Groundwater
Elevation
Range
MW-1 40 587 562 547 --
MW-2 40 597 574 557 567-581
MW-3 14.5 600 589 585 587-594
MW-1A 62 587 545 524 534-539
MW-6 39 487 448 438 432-470
MW-5 76 519 473 443 464-465
MW-4 39 524 505 485 498-519

1 At top of well casing cap.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -10-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


2 North American Vertical Datum (NAVD -29).

39. Wells MW -1 through MW -3 have been sampled quarterly since 2007 to monitor
groundwater at the effluent storage and disposal site . MW -3 is upgradient of the
tailwater collection pond and MW -2 is downgradient or cross gradient of the tailwater
collection pond. Both wells are in the apparent downgradient direction of spray field
Zone 1. Because of the steep slopes, the Discharger was unable to install wells
upgradient of the spray field. MW-1, located outside the influence of the spray field
and tailwater pond, has always been dry. MW-1A was installed to replace MW -1 as a
background well . Wells MW-4, MW -5, and MW -6 are located around the proposed
wastewater storage ponds and were installed to determine baseline groundwater
prior to wastewater disposal to the ponds . Based on groundwater elevations,
groundwater generally flows from east to west (downhill towards the lake). Based on
site topography and the groundwater gradient , MW -1A and MW -6 are outside the
influence of the existing tailwater collection pond and spray field, and are
representative of ambient background groundwater quality (see Attachment B) .

40. A summary of the groundwater quality at the effluent disposal site is summarized in
the table below.

 Average Groundwater Concentration , mg/L unless noted
 Baseline/ba ckground
Constituent
MW-21
MW-31
MW-1A8
MW-68
MW-58
MW-48 Protective
WQL
pH,
std units 7.1 7.2 8.6 8.2 8.4 8.7 6.5-8.49
TDS 1,010 715 2,200 2,300 1,300 1,400 45011-1,5009
Nitrate as N 0.22 2.65 <0.5 <0.5 <0.5 <0.5 1010
TKN 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 None
Total Coliform ,
MPN/mL 143 336 23 2,200 50 30 2.2/100
Boron 0.73 0.31 2.0 1.7 1.7 1.2 0.711
Iron ND ND 3.6 3.5 8.6 42 0.39
Manganese 0.1 0.02 0.07 0.22 0.11 0.39 0.059-0.211
Potassium 11 6 <0.5 <0.5 <0.5 <0.5 None
Sodium 2004 647 <0.5 <0.5 <0.5 <0.5 6911
Chloride 37 63 107 769 66 243 10611-2509

ND denotes ND. NS denotes Not Sampled. WQL denotes water quality limit.
1 Based on data from February 2007 to November 2011.
2 The Feb 2008 sample resulted in a nitrate concentration of 260 mg/L, which appears to be an outlier; therefore
was not included in the average.
3 Based on two samples with total coliform detections greater than 2.2 MPN/mL.
4 The May 2011 sample resulted in a sodium concentration of 47 mg/L, which appears to be an outlier, therefore
was not included in the average.
5 The February 2008 sample resulted in a nitrate concentration of 200 mg/L, which appears to be an outlier,
therefore was not included in the average.
6 Based on multiple samples with total coliform detections greater than 2.2 MPN/mL.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -11-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


7 The May 2011 sample resulted in a sodium concentration of 207 mg/L, which appears to be an outlier, therefore
was not included in the average.
8 Based on data from the 28 November 2012 sampling event.
9 Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level.
10 Primary Maximum Contaminant Level.
11 Agricultural Water Quality Goals .

41. Wells MW -4, MW -5, and MW -6 were sampled prior to the construction of the new
storage ponds. Therefore, the above data for these wells and MW -1A represent
pre-discharge or baseline groundwater quality. Once the storage ponds are
constructed, these wells will serve as background or compliance wells as follows :
 a. MW-6 will be downgradient of proposed P onds 2 and 3;
b. MW-5 will be cross gradient of proposed Ponds 2, 3, and 4;
c. MW-4 will be upgradient of proposed Pond 4 and downgradient of the existing
tailwater collection pond (proposed Pond 1);
d. MW-2 and MW -3 are in the apparent downgradient direction from the spray field
and the existing tailwater collection pond; and
e. MW-1A will continue to serve as a background well;
42. The data above indicate that baseline/background groundwater quality
(as represented by MW -1A and MW -4 through MW-6 data ) exceeds protective
groundwater quality limits with respect to TDS, chloride, boron, iron, manganese, and
total coliform. TDS concentrations in the baseline/background groundwater ranged
from 1,300 mg/L to 2,300 mg/L. Chloride concentrations ranged from 66 mg/L to
769 mg/L in the baseline/background data set . Boron, i ron, and manganese naturally
occur in water; however the concentrations detected in the baseline/background
groundwater exceeded the protective water quality limits. The poor water quality in
these wells is likely naturally occurring. Total coliform concentrations ranging from
23 MPN/100 mL to 2,200 MPN/100 mL were detected in the baseline/background
groundwater .

43. The baseline/background data reflect a single sample event and may not be
repre sentative of act ual groundwater quality for a specific constituent. However ,
based on average effluent quality and groundwater quality downgradient of the LAAs ,
it appears that the discharge has caused some groundwater degradation with respect
to sodium, nitrate, and total coliform .

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

44. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River
Basins, Fourth Edition (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes
water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -12-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


waters of the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the
State Water Board. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263 (a), waste discharge
requirements must implement the Basin Plan.

45. Local drainage is to Lake Berryessa. The beneficial uses of Lake Berryessa, as
stated in the Basin Plan, are municipal and domestic supply; agricultural supply; water contact recreation; non -contact water recreation; warm freshwater habitat; cold
freshwater habitat ; spawning, reproduction, and/or early development; and wildlife
habitat.

46. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as
municipal and domestic supply, agricultural supply, and industrial supply.

47. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical
constituents, tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater. It also sets forth a numeric objective for total coliform organisms.

48. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objective for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven- day period shall be
less than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater.

49. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, at a
minimum, require waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the MCLs specified in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 22) .
The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more
stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.

50. The narrative toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic
substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in human, animal, plant, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses.

51. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site- specific evaluation of
those constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses.
The Basin Plan states that when compliance with a narrative objective is required to protect specific beneficial uses, the Central Valley Water Board will, on a case- by-
case basis, adopt numerical limitations in order to implement the narrative objective.

52. In the absence of specific numerical water quality limits, the Basin Plan methodology is to consider any relevant published criteria. General salt tolerance guidelines, such
as Water Quality for Agriculture by Ayers and Westcot and similar references indicate
that yield reductions in nearly all crops are not evident when irrigation water has an
EC less than 700 μmhos/cm. There is, however, an eight -to ten- fold range in salt
tolerance for agricultural crops and the appropriate salinity values to protect agriculture in the Central Valley are considered on a case- by-case basis. It is
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -13-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


possible to achieve full yield potential with waters having EC up to 3,000 μmhos/cm if
the proper leaching fraction is provided to maintain soil salinity within the tolerance of
the crop. No crops are grown in the area of the WWTF.

Antidegradation Analysis

53. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68-16 (“Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the State”) (hereafter Resolution 68- 16) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.
b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial uses.
c. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives, and
d. The discharger employs best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize degradation.
Due to the high degree of spatial variability in the groundwater quality, this Order requires that determination of compliance with the groundwater limits be made using an intrawell evaluation.

54. Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents associated with
discharges from a municipal wastewater utility, after effective source control,
treatment, and control measures are implemented, is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the s tate. The technology, energy, water recycling, and waste
management advantages of municipal utility service far exceed any benefits derived from reliance on numerous, concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less. The economic prosperity of valley
communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people of the State, and provides sufficient justification for allowing the limited groundwater degradation that may occur pursuant to this Order.

55. The Discharger has been monitoring groundwater quality at the site since 2007.
Based on the data available, it is not possible to determine pre- 1968 groundwater
quality and it may not be possible to establish background groundwater
concentrations due to the geologic complexity of the site. Therefore determination of
compliance with Resolution 68-16 for this facility must be based on ambient
pre-discharge/background groundwater quality for the monitoring wells that are
outside the influence of the current discharge.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -14-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


56. Constituents of concern that have the potential to degrade groundwater include salts
(primarily TDS, sodium, and chloride), nutrients , and coliform organisms, as
summarized in the following table and discussion below:
Constituent Average
Effluent1 Baseline/B ackground
Groundwater2 Downgradient
Groundwater3 Protective
WQL
TDS, mg/L 420 - 810 1,300 – 2,300 950 – 1,200 4506 - 1,5004
Chloride , mg/L 50 – 70 66 - 769 27 – 57 1066 – 2504
Sodium , mg/L 40 - 60 < 0.5 200 – 350 696
Nitrate as N,
mg/L
15 - 40
< 0.5 0.1 – 0.5
105
Boron -- 1.2 - 1.7 0.16 - 1.22 0.76
Iron -- 3.5 - 42 ND 0.34
Manganese -- 0.07 - 0.39 26 - 55 0.054
Total Coliform .
MPN/100 mL
< 2 - 340
23 – 2,200
2 - 130
2.2/100

1 Range of average effluent quality from 2007 – 2011 data.
2 Range of data from wells MW-1A and MW -4 to MW -6 collected on 28 November 2012.
3 MW-2 range of data from 2007 – 2011; downgradient of the spray field.
4 Secondary MCL.
5 Primary MCL.
6 Lowest Agricultural Water Quality Goal.

a. Total Dissolved Solids. Baseline/background groundwater quality is poor and
exceeds protective water quality limits. The average TDS concentration in the
downgradient groundwater is approximately 1,010 mg/L. Effluent TDS quality is
better quality than the baseline/background groundwater and downgradient
groundwater quality . The effluent TDS concentration currently averages 580 mg/L .
Effluent quality with respect to TDS is not anticipated to change once the WWTF
expansion project is complete. Therefore, the discharge is not likely to degrade
groundwater quality due to TDS and a TDS effluent limit is not required to protect
groundwater quality. However, this Order set s a groundwater limitation that prohibit s
any statistic ally significant increase in TDS concentrations in any compliance
monitoring well.

b. Chloride. Baseline/background groundwater quality appears to be poor quality as
reflected in wells MW -6 and MW -4, for which there is only one sample per well.
Chloride concentrations in the baseline/background groundwater varied depending on well location, with 66 mg/L in MW -5 to 769 mg/L in MW -6. Data collected from
wells MW -1A and MW -4 through MW -6 are based on a single monitoring event and
may not be representative of actual groundwater quality. Chloride concentrations in the downgradient groundwater do not exceed protective water quality limits. Effluent
chloride concentrations have been relatively constant, averaging approximately 61 mg/L , and do not exceed protective water quality limits . Effluent quality with
respect to chloride is not anticipated to increase with the completion of the WWTF
expansion. However, the discharge has the potential to degrade groundwater but
not exceed a water quality objective. A n effluent chloride limit is not required to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -15-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


protect groundwater quality. However, this Order sets a groundwater limitation that
prohibit s an exceedance of the water quality objective.

c. Sodium. The limited baseline/background monitoring data for sodium are extremely
low and therefore suspect, so baseline/background groundwater quality cannot be
determined at this time . However, effluent quality does not exceed protective water
quality limits and is better quality than the downgradient groundwater , which
averages approximately 240 mg/L. Based on the lack of evidence of degradation
from chloride, it appears that the hi gh sodium detections downgradient of the
tailwater pond and spray fields were not caused by the discharge. Effluent quality with respect to sodium is not anticipated to increase with the completion of the
WWTF expansion , so an effluent sodium limit is not required to protect groundwater
quality. However, this Order sets a groundwater limitation for sodium that prohibit s
an exceedance of the water quality objective.

d. Nitrate. For nutrients such as nitrate, the potential for degradation depends not only
on the quality of the treated effluent, but the ability of the vadose zone below the spray field LAAs to provide an environment conducive to nitrification and
denitrification to convert the effluent nitrogen to nitrate and the nitrate to nitrogen gas before it reaches the water table. Baseline/background groundwater and
downgradient groundwater do not exceed protective water quality limits for nitrate. However, effluent nitrate quality exceeds the primary MCL of 10 mg/L , with
increased concentrations recently observed.

The discharge to the spray field has the potential to degrade groundwater with
respect to nitrate; however, the lined ponds do not. Total nitrogen in the effluent
after expansion of the WWTF is expected to remain the same. The revised water
balance indicates a total flow of 42.6 MG of wastewater discharged to the spray
fields . Based on an average total nitrogen concentration of 31 mg/L, approximately
184 pounds per acre per year of nitrogen will be applied to the land. The n utrient
uptake rate for oak trees is unknown. However, fruit trees and grasses have a
nutrient uptake rate that range from approximately 85 lb/ac/yr to 300 lb/ac/ yr,
respectively. In addition, application rates consistent with the vegetation grown are best practical treatment and control. Therefore, this Order sets an effluent total
nitrogen limit to protect groundwater quality and a groundwater limitation that
prohibit s an exceedance of the water quality objective.
e. For total coliform organisms (TCO) , the potential for exceedance of the Basin Plan’s
numeric water quality objective depends on the level of disinfection, waste
containment features, and the ability of vadose zone soils within the shallow water
bearing zone to provide adequate filtration. TCO detections were observed in the
newly installed monitoring wells, which represent baseline/background groundwater quality. Multiple TCO detections exceeding t he Basin Plan limit were observed in
the effluent and downgradient groundwater . As discussed in Finding 21, average
effluent TCO concentrations have often exceeded 200 MPN/100mL as an annual
average. These detections are likely due to the discharge of poorly disinfected
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -16-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


effluent to the spray field or cross- contamination of the monitoring wells during
construction and/or subsequent sampling. Because the improved WWTF will
provide lined ponds and a high level of disinfection, col iform organism s will not pose
a threat to water quality once the improvements are completed. If coliform detections continue to exceed the Basin Plan water quality objective in groundwater,
it may be appropriate to disinfect the well s to rule out cross -contamination as the
cause . This Order requires that the Discharger disinfect treated effluent to achieve a
median total coliform level no greater than 23 MPN/100 mL and includes a numerical
groundwater limitation of 2.2 MPN/100 mL for total coliform organisms.
f. Boron, iron, and manganese. Baseline/background quality exceeds protective water
quality limits for these constituents in most or all of the monitoring wells. The
elevated concentrations in groundwater are likely naturally occurring due to geologic
conditions at the site, and not degradation from the discharge. Therefore, effluent
limits are not required to protect groundwater. However, this Order does prohibit
any stati stically significant increase s in concentrations for these constituents in any
compliance monitoring well .
 57. This Order establishes effluent and groundwater limitations for the WWTF that will not
unreasonably threaten present and anticipated beneficial uses or result in groundwater quality that exceeds water quality objectives set forth in the Basin Plan.
 For TDS, groundwater monitoring data indicates that groundwater has not been
degraded beyond background groundwater quality by the previous discharge and that the expanded discharge does not pose a threat of degradation in the future. Because
pre-discharge/ background groundwater quality exceeds the water quality objective,
this Order does not allow any further degradation to occur.
 For chloride, groundwater monitoring data indicates that groundwater has not been
degraded beyond background groundwater quality by the previous discharge. However, the discharge has the potential to degrade groundwater but not exceed a water quality objective. This Order does not allow an exce edance of a water quality
objective.
 For sodium , groundwater monitoring data indicates an exceedance of the lowest
agricultural water quality goal. However, there are no crops grown in the area, and
therefore no impacts to agricultural beneficial use are expected. This Order requires
the Discharger to implement best practical treatment and control ( BPTC ), so the
degradation is allowable under Resolution 68-16. This Order does not allow an
exceedance of a water quality objective in groundwater .
 For nitrate, the nature of the waste, site- specific conditions, and current groundwater
monitoring data indicate that the expanded discharge could cause degradation. The
provisions of this Order require that the Discharger implement BPTC ; contain a time
sched ule to ensure that the discharge will comply with water quality limits ; and do not
allow an exceedance of a water quality objective in groundwater .
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -17-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY



For total coliform, the Discharger proposes BPTC which includes disinfection and lined ponds. No degradation is expected or allowed.
 For boron, iron, and manganese, groundwater monitoring data indicates that
groundwater has not been degraded by the previous discharge and that the expanded discharge does not pose a threat of degradation in the future. Background
groundwater quality exceeds the water quality objectives for boron, iron, and
manganese. T he high mineral c oncentrations are likely naturally occurring.
Therefore this Order does not allow any further degradation to occur .

58. The Discharger currently provides treatment and control of the discharge that
incorporates:
a. Screening to remove large solids and debris from the raw sewage;
b. Secondary treatment of the wastewater ;
c. Some disinfection ;
d. A tailwater return system to capture all tailwater runoff;
e. Biosolids storage activities and disposal off -site;
f. The use of certified operators to assure proper operation and maintenance.
 59. The proposed facility and operational improvements that this Order requires will
provide the following additional treatment and control measures :
a. Advanced secondary treatment;
b. Disinfection to 23 MPN/100 mL;
c. Wastewater storage ponds lined with high density polyethylene geomembrane;
d. Spray field application rates that minimize leaching;
e. Nutrient loading consistent with the vegetation grown in the spray field.
These measures constitute best practicable treatment or control for this small facility, and the limited groundwater degradation allowed by this Order is consistent with the
Antidegradation Policy .

Other Regulatory Considerations

60. Title 27 of t he California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 27) contains regulatory
requirements for the treatment, storage, processing, and disposal of solid waste. However, Title 27 exempts certain activities from its provisions. Discharges regulated by this Order are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to provisions that exempt domestic sewage, wastewater, and reuse. Title 27, section 20090 state s in part :

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -18-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


The following activities shall be exempt from the SWRCB -promulgated provisions of
this subdivision, so long as the activity meets, and continues to meet, all
preconditions listed:
 (a) Sewage - Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated
by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of this code, or for which
WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality
objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal wastewater treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid waste from wastewater
treatment facilities shall be discharged only in accordance with the applicable
SWR CB-promulgated provisions of this division.

(b) Wastewater - Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leachfields if the following conditions are met:

(1) the applicable RWQCB has issued WDRs, reclamation requirements, or
waived such issuance;
 (2) the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan;
and

(3) the wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste. (…)

61. The discharge authorized herein and the treatment and storage facilities associated
with the discharge, are exempt from the requirements of Title 27 as follows:
a. The MBR treatment system, wastewater storage ponds , and appurtenant
structures are exempt pursuant to Title 27, section 20090(a) because they are
treatment and storage facilities associated with a municipal domestic wastewater
treatment plant.
b. The spray fields are exempt pursuant to Title 27, section 20090(b) because they
are used for the discharge of wastewater to land, and:
i. The Central Valley Water Board is issuing WDRs.
ii. The discharge is in compliance with the Basin Plan, and;
iii. The treated effluent discharged to the fields does not need to be managed
as hazardous waste.

62. Although the WWTF is exempt from Title 27, the statistical data analysis methods of
Title 27 , section 20415(e) are appropriate for determining whether the discharge
complies with Groundwater Limitations specified in this Order.
 63. The State Water Board adopted Order 97- 03-DWQ (NPDES General Permit
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge requirements for discharges of storm water associated with industrial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -19-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


affected industrial dischargers . The WWTF does not have a design capacity of more
than 1.0 mgd, and therefore the Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under
NPDES General Permit CAS000001.

64. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems General Order 2006- 0003 -DWQ
(the General Order). The General Order requires all public agencies that own or
operate sanitary sewer systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the
Order. The Discharger’s collection system exceeds one mile in length and therefore the General Order is applicable.

65. Water Code section 13267(b) states:

In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may
require that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of
discharging, or who proposes to discharge within its region … shall furnish, under
penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the board requires. The burden, including costs of these reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship to
the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring
those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports
requiring that person to provide the reports .

The technical reports required by this Order and the attached Monitoring and
Reporting Program R5-2013- 0065 are necessary to ensure compliance with these
waste discharge requirements. The Discharger owns and operates the facility that
discharges the waste subject to this Order.

66. The California Department of Water Resources sets standards for the construction
and destruction of groundwater wells (hereafter DWR Well Standards), as described
in California Well Standards Bulletin 74- 90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards:
State of C alifornia Bulletin 94- 81 (December 1981). These standards, and any more
stringent standards adopted by the state or county pursuant to Water Code section
13801, apply to all monitoring wells used to monitor the impacts of wastewater storage or disposal governed by this Order.

67. The action to adopt waste discharge requirements for this existing facility is exempt
from the provisions of the California Environmental Quality (CEQA), in accordance with the California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 153 01.

68. An Initial Study/Final Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) was certified by the Board
of Directors of the Napa Berryessa Resort Improvement District on 13 November
2012 in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Pub.
Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.). The Initial Study describes improvements to the wastewater treatment facility that include:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -20-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


a. Pond E xpansion – expand capacity of the existing tailwater collection pond and
construct three additional wastewater storage ponds for a total holding capacity
from 1.3 million gallons to approximately 22.3 million gallons.
b. Pond Pump Station I mprovements – change to the utilities to allow for filling of the
new pond system from the wastewater treatment plant.
c. Enhance d Compliance Action, S ewer Lift Station Upgrades – improvement s to the
existing lift stations to improve reliability to convene effluent to the ponds.
d. Wastewater Treatment S ystem Upgrade – provide tertiary level treatment.
e. WWTF Screen Improvements – replacement of the existing manual bar screen
with a rotating drum screen.
f. Sewer Collection S ystem Repairs – repairs to various critical sections to reduce
the amoun t of inflow and infiltration seen by the WWTF.

The Initial Study evaluated potential impacts to groundwater quality and found that
compliance with the new WDRs would result in a less than significant impact to no impact on water quality. Compliance with these waste discharge requirements will
mitigate or avoid significant impacts to water quality.

69. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.

Public Notice

70. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached
Information Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the following conditions of discharge.

71. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the
Central Valley Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided an opportunity to submit written comments and an opportunity for a public hearing.

72. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public
hearing.
 IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order 95 -173 is rescinded except for purposes of
enforcement, and, pursuant to Water Code sections 13263 and 13267, the Napa Berryessa
Improvement Distric t, its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the following:

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -21-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses
is prohibited.
2. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardous’, as defined in the California
Code of Regulations, t itle 23, se ction 2510 et seq., is prohibited.
3. Discharge of waste classified as ‘designated’, as defined in Water Code
section 13173, is prohibited.
4. Treatment system bypass of untreated or partially treated waste is
prohibited, except as allowed by Standard Provisions E.2 of the Standard
Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge
Requirements .
5. Discharge of waste at a location or in a manner different from that
described in the Findings is prohibited.
6. Discharge of toxic substances into the wastewater treatment system or land application areas such that biological treatment mechanisms are disrupted is prohibit ed.
B. Flow Limitations
1. Effectively immediately , influent flows to the WWTF shall not exceed the following
limits:

Flow Measurement Flow Limit
Monthly Average Flow 0.050 mgd

1 As determined by the total flow during the calendar
month divided by the number of days in the month.

2. Effective on the date of the Executive Officer approval of the certification
report submitted pursuant to item 13 of CDO R5 -2010- 01011, influent flows to
the WWTF shall not exceed the following limits:

Flow Measurement Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 36.4 MG
Total Monthly Flow 2 4.50 MG

1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow during the calendar month .


1 Which is due by 30 November 2013.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -22-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


C. Effluent Limitations
1. Effluent discharged to the wastewater storage ponds shall not exceed the following
limits:
Constituent Units Limit Basis of Compliance
Determination
BOD 5 1 mg/L 50 Monthly maximum
Total nitrogen mg/L 35 Annual average

1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20˚C.

2. Effluent discharged to the wastewater storage ponds shall not exceed the following
limits for total coliform organisms:

a. The monthly median concentration of total coliform bacteria measure in the
disinfected effluent shall not exceed a most probable number (MPN) of 23 per 100 milliliters. Compliance with this requirement will be determined using
data for each calendar month .

b. The nu mber of total coliform bacteria shall not exceed an MPN of 240 per
100 milliliter s in more than one sample in any calendar month.

Compliance with this requirement shall be determined based on samples obtained at the sampling locations shown on Attachment C.

D. Mass Loading Limitations
 1. The total annual nitrogen mass loading to the spray field shall not exceed the
agronomic rate for the vegetation grown . Compliance with this requirement shall be
determined using published nitrogen uptake rates for the vegetation grown and the
following formula:

∑
=×=n
ii i
AV CM
1

Where M = Annual total nitrogen loading rate in lb/ac/ year;
Ci = Arithmetic mean of total nitrogen monitoring results for calendar
month i in mg/L;
Vi = Total effluent flow to the LAA for the calendar month in MG;
i = The number of the month (i.e., January = 1, February = 2, etc.);
A = Area of the LAA or field in acres;
Total nitrogen = (nitrate as nitrogen + TKN) in mg/L.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -23-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY



E. Discharge Specifications
 1. No waste constituent shall be rel eased, discharged, or placed w here it will
be released or discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes
violation of the Groundwat er Limitations of this Order.
 2. The discharge shall not cause degradation of any water supply.

3. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal shall not cause pollution or a nuisance as defined by Water Code section 13050.
 4. The discharge shall remain within the permitted waste treatment/containment structures and land application areas at all times.
 5. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to optimize the quality of
the discharge.

6. All conve yance, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be designed,
constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent inunda tion or washout due to
floods with a 100- year return frequency.

7. Public contact with wastewater shall be prevented through such means as fences, s igns, or acceptable al ternatives.

8. Objectionable odors shall not be perceivab le beyond the limits of the WWTF
property at an intensity that creates or thr eatens to create nuisance conditions.

9. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification F.8, the dissolved oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall not be less than 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the
DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive sampling events,
the Discharger shall report the findings to the Regional Water Board in writing
within 10 days and shall include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.
 10. The Discharger shall o perate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the
integrity of containment dams and berms and prev ent overtopping and/or
structural failure. Unless a California- registered civil engineer certifies (based on
design, construction, and conditions of operation and maintenance) that less
freeboard is adequate, the operating freeboard in any pond shall never be less
than two feet (measured vertically from the lowest possible point of overflow). As
a means of management and to discern compliance with thi s requirement, the
Discharger shall install and maintain in each pond a permanent staff gauge with
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -24-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


calibration marks that clearly show the water level at design capacity and enable
determination of available operational freeboard.

11. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall have
suffic ient capa city to accommodate allowable wastewater flow, design seasonal
precipi tation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the winter while ensuring
continuous compliance with all requirements of this Order. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of
100 years, distributed mont hly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.

12. On or about 1 October of each year, available capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications F.10 and F.11.

13. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small
coves and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through cont rol of water depth, harvesting,
or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
d. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding as needed
to supplement the above measures.
 14. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal berms that separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall be designed and constructed under the super vision of a California Registered Civil Engineer.

F. Groundwater Limitations
 Release of waste constituents from any portion of the WWTF shall not cause
groundwater to:

1. Contain TDS, boron, iron, and manganese in concentrations statistically great er
than current groundwater qual ity.

2. Exceed a total coliform organism level of 2.2 MPN/100mL.

3. Exhibit a pH of less than 6.5 or greater than 8.4 pH units.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -25-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


4. For constituents identified in Title 22 ( except TDS, iron, and manganese) , contain
constituents in concentrations that exceed either the Primary or Secondary MCLs
established therein.

5. Except boron, contain taste or odor -producing constituents, toxic substances, or
any other constituents in concen trations that cause nuisance or adversely affect
benefical uses.

Compliance with these limitations shall be determined annually base d on intrawell
analysis of data from monitoring wells MW -2, MW -3, MW -4, MW -5, and MW -6 using
approved statistical methods.

G. Land Application Area (Spray Field) Specifications
1. Any irrigation runoff (tailwater) shall be con fined to the LAA and shall not enter any
surface water drainage course or storm water drainage system .

2. Vegetation (which may include native grasses , shrubs and trees) shall be grown in
the LAAs .

3. Land application of wastewater shall be managed to minimize erosion.

4. The LAAs shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular:
a. There shall be no standing water 48 hours after irrigation ceases;
b. Tailwater ditches shall be maintained essentially free of emergent, marginal, and floating vegetation; and
c. Low-pressur e and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to
mosquitoes shall not be used to store recycled water.

5. LAAs shall be designed, maintained, and operated to comply with the following
setback requirements:

Setback Definition Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of LAA to property boundary 25
Edge of LAA to public road right of way 30
Edge of LAA to domestic water supply well 100
Edge of LAA to residence 100
Edge of LAA using spray irrigation to public park,
playground, school yard, or similar place of potential public
exposure 100

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -26-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY



6. LAAs shall be inspected as frequently as necessary to ensure continuous compliance with the requirements of this Order.

7. Spray irrigation with wastewater is prohibited when wind speed (including gusts)
exceeds 30 mph.

8. Sprinkler heads shall be designed, operated and maintained to create a minimum
amount of mist.

9. Discharge to the LAAs shall not be performed during rainfall or when the ground is
saturated.

10. Discharge of storm water runoff from the LAAs to off -site land or surface water
drainage courses is allowed if the Discharger complies with Specification G.9
above.

H. Solids Disposal Specifications
Sludge, as used in this document, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that will not be subject to further treatment at the WWTF. Biosolids refers to sludge that has been treated and tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially used as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation activities pursuant to federal and state regulations .
1. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, ponds, and clarifiers as needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
2. Any handling and storage of residual sludge, solid waste, and biosolids at the WWTF shall be temporary (i.e., no longer than two years) and controlled and contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or concentration that will violate the groundwater limitations of this Order.
3. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27, division 2.
Removal for further treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites (i.e., landfills,
WWTFs, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in accordance with valid waste discharge requirements issued by a Regional Water Board will satisfy this specification.
4. U se of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste discharge
requirements issued by a Regional Water Board or the State Water Board except
in cases where a local (e.g., county) program has been authorized by a Regional
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -27-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


Water B oard. In most cases, this will mean the General Biosolids Order (State
Water Resources Control Board Water Quality Order 2004- 12-DWQ, “General
Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a
Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land Reclamation
Activities”). For a biosolids use project to be covered by Order 2004 -12-DWQ, the
Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a Notice of Applicability for each project.
5. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self -implementing federal
regulations of 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 503, which are subj ect to
enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the Central Valley Water Board. If during the life of this Order, the State accepts primacy for i mplementation of part 503, the Central
Valley Water Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
6. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported in writing to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the chang e.
I. Provisions
1. The following report shall be submitted pursuant to Water Code section 13267 and shall be prepared as described in Provision I.4:
 a. In addition to the requirements of Item 13 of CDO R5 -2010- 0101, the
certification report due by 30 November 2013 pursuant to the CDO shall also :
i. Certify that a new influent flow meter has been installed and calibrated and
is fully operation al;
ii. Include a Land Application Area (Spray Field) Operations Plan that details the specific operational procedures that will be used to ensure compliance with each of the Land Application Area (Spray Field) Specifications ( G.1
through G. 10); and
iii. Include a SCADA System Irrigation Operations Plan that details all switches, valves, meters, etc . that the SCADA system will monitor and/or
control; a list of conditions that will cause an alarm; a list of manual
overrides that can be performed remotely; operator procedures for
determining flow rates for land applications, application durations, and rest
cycles; and details regarding SCADA operations during a power outage
and/or backup power system.
b. By 30 November 2013 , the Discharger shall submit a Groundwater Limitations
Compliance Assessment Plan. The plan shall describe and justify the statistical
methods used to evaluate compliance with the Groundwater Limitations of this
Order for the compliance wells and constituents listed in the groundwater monitoring section of the Monitoring and Reporting Program. Compliance shall be determined annually based on an intrawell statist ical analysis that uses
methods prescribed in Title 27, section 20415(e)(10) to compare monitoring
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -28-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


data collected at each compliance well to the groundwater limitations of this
Order.

2. If groundwater monitoring results show that the discharge of waste is c ausing
groundwater to contain any waste constituents in concentrations statistically
greater than the Groundwater Limitations of this Order , within 120 days of the
request of the Executive Officer , the Discharger shall submit a BPTC Evaluation
Workplan tha t sets forth the scope and schedule for a systematic and
comprehensive technical evaluation of each component of the facility’s waste
treatment and disposal system to determine best practicable treatment and control for each waste constituent that exceeds a Groundwater Limitation. The workplan
shall contain a preliminary evaluation of each component of the WWTF and effluent disposal system and propose a time schedule for completing the comprehensive technical evaluation. The schedule to complete the evaluation shall be as short as practicable, and shall not exceed one year from the date of written request .
 3. A discharger whose waste flow has been increasing, or is projected to increase, shall estimate when flows will reach hydraulic and treatment capacities of its treatment, collection, and disposal facilities. The projections shall be made in January, based on the last three years' average dry weather flows, peak wet weather flows and total annual flows, as appropriate. When any projection shows that capacity of any part of the facilities may be exceeded in four years, the discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board by 31 January .
 4. In accordance with California Business and Professions Code sections 6735, 7835,
and 7835.1, engineering and geologic evaluations and judgments shall be performed by or under the direction of registered professionals competent and proficient in the fields pertinent to the required activities. All technical reports specified herein that contain workplans for investigations and studies, that describe the conduct of investigations and studies, or that contain technical conclusions and recommendations concerning engineering and geology shall be prepared by or under the direction of appropriately qualified professional(s) , even if not explicitly
stated. Each technical report submitted by the Discharger shall bear the professional’s signature and stamp.

5. The Discharger shall submit the technical reports and work plans required by this Order for consideration by the Executive Officer, and incorporate comments the Executive Officer may have in a timely manner, as appropriate. Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Order, the Discharger shall proceed with all work required by the foregoing provisions by the due dates specif ied.

6. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP)
R5-2013- 0065 , which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by
the Executive Officer. The submittal dates of Discharger self -monitoring reports
shall be no later than the submittal date specified in the MRP.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -29-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY



7. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
 8. The Discharger shall comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of technical and monitoring reports. On or before each report due date,
the Discharger shall submit the specified document to the Central Valley Water Board or, if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, t hen
the Discharger shall state the reasons for such noncompliance and provide an estimate of the date when the Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board in writing when it returns to compliance with the time schedule. Violations may result in enforcement action, including Central Valley Water Board or court orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.
 9. The Discharger shall at all time s properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed or used by the Discharger to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of back -up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems that are installed by the Discharger
when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order.

10. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost -effective control technique(s)
including proper operation and maintenance, to comply with this Order.

11. The Discharger shall provide certified wastewater treatment plant operators in accordance with Title 23, d ivision 3, chapter 26.

12. The Discharger shall comply with the requirements of the Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements (General WDRs) for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Water Quality Order 2006- 0003), the R evised General WDRs Monitoring and
Reporting Program (Water Quality Order 2008- 0002- EXEC), and any subsequent
revisions thereto. Water Quality Order 2006- 0003 and Order 2008- 0002- EXEC
require the Discharger to notify the Central Valley Water Board and take remedial action upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanitary sewer system resulting in a sanitary sewer overflow.

13. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant -free wastewater to be discharged into the
wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal systems in amounts that
significantly diminish the system's capability to comply with this Order. Pollutant -
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -30-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


free wastewater means rainfall, groundwater, cooling waters, and condensates that
are essentially free of pollutants.
 14. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement involving disposal or recycling areas or off -site reuse of effluent, used to
justify the capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board in writing of the situation and
of what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full compliance with this Order.

15. The Discharger shall report promptly to the Central Valley Water Board any material change or proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.

16. In the event of any change in control or ownership of the facility or land application areas, the Discharger must notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this offic e.

17. To assume operation as Discharger under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the state of incorporation if a corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the
persons responsible for contact with the Central Valley Water Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or operator assumes full responsibility for compliance with this Order. Failure to submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a violation of the Water Code . If approved by the
Executive Officer, the transfer request will be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board for its consideration of transferring the ownership of this Order at one of its regularly scheduled meetings.
 18. A copy of this Order including the MRP, Information Sheet, Attachments, and Standard Provisions, shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
 19. The Central Valley Water Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take other enforcement actions. Failure to comply with this Order or with the WDRs may result in the assessment of Administrative Civil Liability of up to $10,000 per violation, per day, depending on the violation, pursuant to the Water Code, including sections 13268, 13350
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5 -2013- 0065 -31-
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


and 13385. The Central Valley Water Board reserves its right to take any enforcement
actions authorized by law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may petition the State Water Board to review the action in accordance with Water Code section 13320 and California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 2050 and following. The State Water
Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m., 30 days after the date of this Order, except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this Order falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the State Water Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the law and regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found on the Internet at:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices/petitions/water_quality
or will be provided upon request.
 I, PAMELA C . CREEDON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true,
and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 31 May 2013.

PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
LLA: 050713 Original signed by Kenneth Landau for

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2013- 0065

FOR
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY

This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) presents requirements for monitoring i nfluent,
effluent, pond, land application areas, groundwater , sludge, and water supply . This MRP is
issued pursuant to Water Code Section 13267. The Discharger shall not implement any
changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer.
 Central Valley Water Board staff shall approve specific sampling locations prior to any sampling
activities. All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. The
time, d ate, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of custody
form.
 Field test instruments (such as those used to measure pH and dissolved oxygen) may be used provided that:
 1. The operator is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are calibrated prior to each monitoring event;
3. The instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the “Reporting” section of the MRP.

INFLUENT MONITORING

Influent samples shall be representative of the wastewater prior to treatment. Influent
monitoring shall include the following:

Constituent
Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow 1 gpd Continuous Meter Daily Monthly
BOD 5 2 mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly

1 Flow represents the daily flow rate.
2 BOD denotes 5- day Biochemical Oxygen Demand.

EFFLUENT MONITORING
 Effluent samples shall be collected prior to the discharge to the effluent storage ponds and shall
be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:

MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 2
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
BOD 5 mg/L Grab Twice Mon thly Monthly
Total Coliform Organisms 1 MPN/100 ml 2 Grab Weekly Monthly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Sodium mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Chloride mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Twice Mont hly Monthly
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L Grab Twice Monthly Monthly
Standard Minerals 3 mg/L Grab Annually Annually

1 Using a minimum of 15 tubes or 3 dilutions.
2 Most probable number per 100 ml.
3 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: boron, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sulfate, iron, manganese, total alkalinity (including alkalinity series), and hardness.


POND MONITORING

Samples shall be collected from an established sampling station located in an area that will
provide a sample representative of the wastewater in each pond. Freeboard shall be measured vertically from the surface of the pond water to the lowest elevation of the surrounding berm and shall be measured to the nearest 0.1 feet. Monitor ing of Ponds 1 through 4 and any other
ponds containing wastewater shall include, at a minimum, the following :

Constituent
Units Type of Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
pH Standard Grab Weekly Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen 1 mg/L Grab Weekly Monthly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Weekly Monthly
Berm condition 2 -- Observation Monthly Monthly
Odors 3 -- Observation Weekly Monthly

1 Samples shall be collected at a depth of one foot from each pond in use, opposite the inlet.
Samples shall be collected between 0700 and 0900 hours.
2 Containment berms shall be observed for signs of seepage or surfacing water along the exterior toe of the berms. If surfacing water is found, then a sample shall be collected and tested for t otal
coliform organisms and total dissolved solids.
3 The presence of strong or unusual odors shall be reported.

LAND APPLICATION AREA MONITORING

Monitoring of the land application areas (LAA) shall be conducted daily during effluent
application, and the results shall be included in the monthly monitoring report. All land
application areas shall be inspected following an effluent application event to identify any
equipment malfunction or other circumstance that might allow the wastewater to runoff the land application areas and/or create ponding conditions that violate the Waste Discharge Requirements. Evidence of erosion, saturation, wastewater runoff, or the presence of nuisance
MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 3
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


conditions shall be noted in the report. A log of these inspections as well as any public
complaints of runoff shall be kept at the facility and made available for review upon request.
The monthly report shall clearly state whether or not the LAAs were used during that month.

Effluent monitoring results shall be used in calcul ations to determine loading rates at the LAAs .
Monitoring of the LAAs shall include the following:

Constituent
Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow to each LAA Gallons Continuous Daily Monthly
Local Rainfall Inches Observation Daily Monthly
Acreage Applied 1 Acres Calculated Daily Monthly
Water Application Rate 2 gal/acre/ day Calculated Daily Monthly
Total Nitrogen Loading Rate 2,4 lbs/ac/ month Calculated Monthly Monthly

1 Land application areas shall be identified.
2 For each of the land application area.
3 Report 5- day average and maximum daily loading.
4 Report monthly total and cumulative annual to date.

GROUNDWATER MONITORING
 Prior to construction and/or sampling of any groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and specifications to the Regional Water Board for review and approval. Once
installed, all new wells shall be added to the compliance monitoring network. The following table lists all existing monitoring wells and designates the purpose of each well.

MW-1 1 MW-1A 2 MW-2 3 MW-3 3 MW-4 3 MW-5 3 MW-6 3

1 Existing well, not suitable for use as a background well. Well is dry.
2 Background well , not used for compliance monitoring.
3 Compliance well .
 Prior to sampling, depth to groundwater measurements shall be measured in each monitoring
well to the nearest 0.01 feet. Groundwater elevations shall then be calculated to determine
groundwater gradient and flow direction.
Low or no- purge sampling methods are acceptable, if described in an approved Sampling and
Analysis Plan. Groundwater monitoring for all monitoring wells shall include, at a minimum, the following:


Constituent
Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 feet Measurement Quarterly Quarterly
Groundwater Elevation 1 0.01 feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient feet/feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 4
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


Constituent
Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
pH 2 pH units Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Sodium mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms 3 MPN/100 mL Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Trihalomethanes mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Standard Minerals 4 mg/L Grab Annually Annually

1 Groundwater elevation shall be determined based on depth- to-water measurements using a surveyed
measuring point elevation on the well and a surveyed reference elevation.
2 Hand held field meter may be used.
3 Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions.
4 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: boron, calcium, iron,
manganese, magnesium, potassium, sulfate, total alkalinity (including alkalinity series), and hardness.

If after at least two years of consecutive quarterly monitoring there appears to be no significant
temporal variability, the Discharger may request a revision to this MRP to reduce the number or
frequency of constituents monitored. A written request to the Executive Officer shall be
submitted.

SLUDGE MONITORING
 A composite sample of digested sludge shall be collected at least once per year when sludge is removed from the wastewater treatment system for disposal in accordance with EPA's POTW Sludge Sampling and Analysis Guidance Document, August 1989, and analyzed for cadmium, copper, nickel, chromium, lead, and zinc.
 The Discharger shall keep records regarding sludge generated by the treatment processes,
including any analytical test results; the quantity of sludge removed for disposal; the quantity of sludge removed from the ponds and temporarily stored onsite; and steps taken to prevent
nuisance conditions. Records shall be stored onsite and available for review during inspections. If sludge is transported off -site for disposal, then the Discharger shall submit records identifying
the hauling company, the amount of sludge transported, the date removed from the facility, the disposal facility name and address, and copies of all analytical data required by the entity accepting the water. These records shall be submitted as part of the Annual Monitoring Report.

WATER S UPPLY MONITORING
 A sampling station shall be established where a representative sample of the municipal water supply can be obtained. Water supply monitoring shall include at least the following for each
MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 5
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


water source used during the previous year. As an alternative to annual water supply
monitoring, the Discharger may submit results of the most current Department of Public Health
Consumer Confidence Report.

Constituents Units Sampling Frequency
pH Std. Unit Annually
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Annually
Standard Minerals 1 mg/L Annually

1 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following
elements/compounds: boron, calcium, chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrogen, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total alkalinity
(including alka linity series), and hardness.

REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date, sample type (e.g., effluent, pond, etc.), and reported analytical result for each sample are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly illustrate compliance with waste discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported to the Regional Water Board.
 As required by the California Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, all Groundwater Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct super vision of a
Registered Engineer or Professional Geologist and signed by the registered professional.
 A. Monthly Monitoring Reports
 Daily, weekly, and monthly monitoring data shall be reported in monthly monitoring reports. Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the 1
st day of the second
month following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 March). At a minimum, the
reports shall include:

1. Results of the influent, efflu ent, pond, and land application area monitoring.
2. Calculation of the average daily flow (as determined by the total flow during the calendar
month divided by the number of days in the month), total monthly influent flow , cumulative
annual flow to date, and monthly median total coliform bacteria.
3. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications and an explanation of any violation of those requirements. Data shall be presented in tabular format.
4. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s).
5. Copies of current calibration logs for all field test instr uments.

MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 6
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


B. Quarterly Monitoring Reports

The Discharger shall establish a quarterly sampling schedule for groundwater monitoring such that samples are obtained approximately every three months. Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Board by the 1
st day of the second month after the quarter (i.e. the
January -March quarterly report is due by May 1st) and may be combined with the monthly
report. The Quarterly Report shall include the following:

1. Results of groundwater monitoring;
2. A narrative description of all preparatory, monitoring, sampling, and analytical testing activities for the groundwater monitoring. The narrative shall be sufficiently detailed to verify compliance with the WDR, this MRP, and the Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements. The narrative shall be supported by field logs for each well documenting depth to groundwater; parameters measured before, during, and after purging; method of purging; calculation of casing volume; and total volume of water purged;
3. Calculat ion of groundwater elevations, an assessment of groundwater flow direction and
gradient on the date of measurement, comparison of previous flow direction and gradient data, and discussion of seasonal trends if any;
4. A narrative discussion of the analytical results for all groundwater locations monitored including spatial and temporal tends, with reference to summary data tables, graphs, and appended analytical reports (as applicable);
5. Summary data tables of historical and current water table elevations and analytical results;
6. A scaled map showing relevant structures and features of the facility, the locations of monitoring wells and any other sampling stations, and groundwater elevation contours referenced to mean sea level datum; and
7. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) for groundwater monitoring.

C. Annual Report
 The Annual Report shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board by 1 February each year.
The Annual Report shall include the following:

1. The results from annual monitoring of the effluent, groundwater, and water supply.
2. Calculations to determine the maximum monthly flow, the total annual influent flow , and the
total annual nitrogen mass loading;
3. Tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the year;
4. Concentration versus time graphs for each monitored constituent using all historical groundwater monitoring data. Each graph shall show the background concentration range and the Groundwater Limitation as horizontal lines at the appli cable concentration.
MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 7
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


5. An evaluation of the groundwater quality beneath the site and determination of compliance
with the Groundwater Limitations of the WDRs based on statistical analysis for each
constituent monitored for each compliance well in accordance with the approved
Groundwater Limitations Compliance Assessment Plan. Include all calculations and data
input/analysis tables derived from use of statistical software, as applicable.
6. A discussion of compliance and the corrective actions taken, as well as any planned or
proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements;
7. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring system or reporting program;
8. A copy of the certification for each certified wastewater treatment plant operator working at the facility and a statement about whether the Discharger is in compliance with Title 23, CCR, Division 3, Chapter 26.
9. A forecast of influent flows, as described in Standard Provision No. E.4;
10. A discussion of the follow ing:
a. Waste constituent reduction efforts implemented in accordance with any required
workplan;
b. Other best practical treatment and control measures implemented pursuant to any approved BPTC Workplan (if required by the Executive Officer); and
c. Based on monitoring data, an evaluation of the BPTC measures that were implemented.

A letter transmitting the self -monitoring reports shall accompany each report. The letter shall
include a discussion of requirement violations found during the reporting period, and actions
taken or planned for correcting noted violations, such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The transmittal letter shall contain the penalty of perjury statement by the Discharger, or the Discharger's authorized agent, as described in the Standard Provisions General Reporting Requirements Section B.3.

MONIT ORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM MRP R5 -2013- 0065 8
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.


Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer



 (Date)

 LAA: 050713 Original signed by Kenneth Landau for
31 May 2013
INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER R5 -2013- 0065
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
 Background
 Napa Berryessa Resort Improvement District (hereafter “Discharger ” or “NBRID” ) submitted a
Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) that describes major improvements and expansion of the existing wastewater treatment facility (WWTF). The NBRID WWTF is regulated un der Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order 95-173, which prescribes requirements for the
treatment and discharge of domestic wastewater to three holding basins and a 60- acre spray
field. The treatment plant and holding basins is located at 1465 Steele Canyon Road, while
the spray field is located approximately 0.5 miles south of the plant. WDRs 95 -173 allow s a
monthly average discharge up to 50,000 gallons per day. Upgrades to the WWTF will improve
the treatment system and increase effluent storage capacity to comply with Cease and Desist Order (CDO) R5-2010- 0101.
 For several years, the Discharger has experienced problems managing sever e sewer inflo w
and infiltration, which led to exceeding the flow limits set forth in the WDRs , failure to contain
wastewater runoff from the spray field, and discharges of treated and partially treated wastewater to surface water drainage courses and to Lake Berryessa. These violations of the WDRs resulted to the adoption of three CDOs, a connection restriction, an A dministrative Civil
Liability, and a Time Schedule Order.
 Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
 Improvements to the WWTF include replacing the existing manual bar screen with a rotary
drum screen; constructing a concrete pad at the existing sludge dewatering area; replacing the existing extended aeration treatment system with a new membrane bioreactor package treatment plant system; and constructing three new high density polyethylene geomembrane (HPDE ) lined effluent storage ponds and expanding and lining the existing tailwater pond for a
total off -site effluent storage capacity of approximately 20.1 million gallons. Improvements to
the treatment plant will produce disinfected secondary -23 effluent. Sewer collection system
repairs consisting of excavation and repair of certain sewer lines will be performed to reduce the amount of inflow and infiltration.
 Site-Specific Conditions
 The wastewater treatment plant is at an elevation of approximately 500 feet above mean sea level (MSL) . The effluent disposal and new storage pond site is located at elevations ranging
from 550 to 1,000 feet MSL. The effluent disposal site is characterized by moderately steep to
steep slopes (30 to 75 percent) with intervening westerly flowing seasonal drainages. The effluent disposal site supports a dense growth of native grasses with scattered oak trees and dense areas of brush.
INFORMATION SHEET -2
ORDER R5-2013- 0065
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WWTF
NAPA COUNTY

 Groundwater Considerations

Baseline /background groundwater quality exceeds protective groundwater quality limits with
respect to TDS, chloride, boron, iron, manganese, and total coliform. The poor water quality is likely naturally occurring, with the exception of total coliform.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

Local drainage is to Lake Berryessa. The beneficial uses of Lake Berryessa, as stated in the Basin Plan, are municipal and domestic supply; agricultural supply; water contact recreation; non-contact water recreation; warm freshwater habitat; cold freshwater habitat; spawning,
reproduction, and/or early development; and wildlife habitat.
 The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as municipal and domestic supply, agricultural supply, and industrial supply.
 Antidegrada tion Analysis
 State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68- 16 prohibits degradation of groundwater
unless it has been shown that:

• The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.
• The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial
uses.
• The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state and
regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives, and
• The discharger employs best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize degradation.
 The Discharger has been monitoring groundwater quality at the site since 2007. Based on the
data available, it is not possible to determine pre- 1968 groundwater quality and it may not be
possible to establish background groundwater concentrations due to the geologic complexity of the site. Therefore determination of compliance with Resolution 68-16 for this facility must
be based on ambient pre- discharge/background groundwater quality for the monitoring wells
that are outside the influence of the current discharge.
 Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents associated with discharges from a municipal wastewater utility, after effective source control, treatment, and control measures are implemented, is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state . The technology, energy, water recycling, and waste management advantages of
municipal utility service far exceed any benefits derived from reliance on numerous,
concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less.
INFORMATION SHEET -3
ORDER R5-2013- 0065
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WWTF
NAPA COUNTY

 The Discharger currently provides treatment and control of the discharge that incorporates:

• Screening to remove large solids and debris form the raw sweater;
• Secondary treatment of the wastewater;
• Some disinfection;
• Tailwater return system to capture all tailwater runoff;
• Biosolids s torage activities and disposal off -site; and
• The use of certified operators to assure proper operation and maintenance.

The proposed facility and operational improvements that this Order requires will provide the
following additional treatment and contr ol measures:

• Advanced secondary treatment;
• Disinfection to 2 3 MPN/100 mL;
• Wastewater storage ponds lined with high density polyethylene geomem brane;
• Spray field application rates that minimize leaching; and
• Nutrient loading consistent with the vegetation grown in the spray field.
 Discharge Prohibitions, Specifications, and Provisions
 Effectively immediately, influent flows to the WWTF shall not exceed a monthly average flow of 0.050 million gallons per day (mgd).

Effective on the date of the Executive Officer approval of the certification report submitted
pursuant to item 1 3 of CDO R5 -2010- 0101, influent flows to the WWTF shall not exceed the
following limits:
Flow Measurement Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 36.4 MG
Total Monthly Flow 2 4.50 MG

1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow during the calendar month .

The Order establishes a BOD, total nitrogen, and total coliform effluent limit prior to discharge
to the wastewater storage ponds and sets groundwater limits that will ensure compliance with the Basin Plan. This Order also sets specifications for waste disposal and land application.
 Monitoring Requirements
The Mo nitoring and Reporting Program is designed to verify compliance with effluent
limitations and operational requirements of the WDRs. The Order requires monitoring the
INFORMATION SHEET -4
ORDER R5-2013- 0065
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NAPA BERRYESSA WWTF
NAPA COUNTY

 influent, effluent, ponds, land application areas , groundwater, sludge and water supply. If
results of the monitoring re veal a threat to water quality or indicate a change in waste
character such that the threat to water quality is significantly increase d, the Central Valley
Water Board may reopen this Order to reconsider groundwater limitations and other
requirements to comply with Resolution 68- 16.
 Reopener
 The conditions of discharge in the Order were developed based on currently available technical information and applicable water quality laws, regulations, policies, and plans, and are intended to assure conformance with them. If the information obtained from the monitoring
activities indicate a significantly increased threat to water quality, it may be appropriate to
reopen the Order to address compliance with the Basin Plan.

LLA:050113

ORDER R5 -2013- 0065 ATTACHMENT A

Drawing Reference:
USGS Topographic M ap,
Berryessa 7.5 Min.
Quadrangle, RWD VICINITY MAP
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEM ENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY

 N

Approx. Scale:
1” = 4,100 ’ STORAGE POND
EXPANSION AREA WASTEWATER
TREATMENT
PLANT
EFFLUENT
DISPOSAL SITE
ORDER R5 -2013 -0065 ATTACHMENT B


Approximate Scale
As Noted Drawing Reference:
Summit Engineering, Inc.
Antidegradation Analysis
December 2012
 LAND APPLICATION AREA SITE PLAN
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY

 DISPOSAL ZONE 1
DISPOSAL ZONE 2
DISPOSAL ZONE 3
DISPOSAL ZONE 4 LIMITS OF
SPRAY FIELD
(TYP. ) PROPERTY LINE
0 120 240
APPROX. SCALE (FEET ) POND 2
POND 1
(FORMER
TAILWATER
POND)
EFFLUENT
STORAGE
TANK
 TAILWATER
COLLECTION
DITCH CULVERT
 TO POND
POND 4
INTERMITTENT
STREAM (TYP.)
STEELE
CANYON
ROAD MW-5
MW-3 MW-4 MW-1 MW-1A MW-6


MW-2 POND 3
LEGEND

 Monitoring Well

Slope Direction/ Presumed
Groundwater Flow Direction
ORDER R5 -2013- 0065 ATTACHMENT C




Drawing Reference:
Summit Engineering
PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
NAPA BERRYESSA RESORT IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY


 S
LEGEND
(E) Existing
(P) Proposed
(S) Sample Poi nt

OVERFLOW
RETURN PACKAGE TREATMENT PLANT
S
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATE R QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

STANDARD PROVISIONS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS


1 March 1991

A. General Provisions:

1. The requirements prescribed herein do not author ize the commission of any act causing injury to
the property of another, or protec t the Discharger from liabilities under federal, state, or local
laws. This Order does not convey any pr operty rights or exclusive privileges.
 2. The provisions of this Order are severable. If any provision of this Or der is held invalid, the
remainder of this Order shall not be affected.
 3. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this Order may be terminated or modified for cause,
including, but not limited to: a. Violation of any term or c ondition contained in this Order;
 b. Obtaining this Order by misrepre sentation, or failure to disclo se fully all relevant facts;
 c. A change in any condition that results in either a temporary or permanent need to reduce or
eliminate the authorized discharge;
 d. A material change in the character, location, or volume of discharge.
 4. Before making a material change in the char acter, location, or volum e of discharge, the
discharger shall file a new Report of Waste Di scharge with the Regiona l Board. A material
change includes, but is not limited to, the following: a. An increase in area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond that specified in
waste discharge requirements.
 b. A significant change in disposal method, locatio n or volume, e.g., change from land disposal
to land treatment.
 c. The addition of a major industrial, muni cipal or domestic wast e discharge facility.
 d. The addition of a major industrial waste disc harge to a discharge of essentially domestic
sewage, or the addition of a ne w process or product by an industrial facility resulting in a
change in the character of the waste.

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -2-
Waste Discharge to Land


5. Except for material determined to be confid ential in accordance with California law and
regulations, all reports prepared in accordance with terms of this Order shall be available for
public inspection at the offices of the Board. Data on waste discharges, water quality, geology,
and