wastewater treatment and disposal.
3. An evaluation of the Facility’s annual average effluent EC (monitored at EFF -001)
to the Salinity Action Level , annual average EC of the source water plus
500 µmhos/cm . If the facility’s discharge exceeds the Salinity Action Level, the
Discharger shall submit a Salinity Action Level Report by 1 March of the year
following the exceedance of the Salinity Action Level as described in the WDRs
Order.
4. An evaluation of the Facility’s annual total nitrogen removal and performance with
respect to the Nitrogen Control Plan of the Kings Management Zone.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2023-0046 12
CITY OF DINUBA
DINUBA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
5. Statement certifying when the flow meter s and other monitoring inst ruments and
devices were last calibrated, include identification of who performed the
calibrations (SPRRs C.4) .
6. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for t he previous five
calendar years.
7. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
8. Copy of the Public Water System’s most recent Consumer Confidence Report.
9. Tabulated summary of all monitoring data collected over the year.
10. An evaluation of the City’s major industrial dischargers , including permitted flows
and loading limits as well as any water quality monitoring data collected.
11. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling
plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and
operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
12. A discussion of compliance with the WDRs Order and corrective actions taken, as
well as any planned or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into
compliance with the WDRs .
13. An evaluation of the Facility’s performance, including discussion of capacity issues,
infiltration and inflow rates, nuisance conditions, and forecast of flows anticipated
in the following year (SPRRs E.4).
14. Annual production of total sludge/biosolids in dry tons or cubic yards (if applicable).
15. Annual quantity of solids removed from pond bottoms, where it was stored for what
time period was it stored , and where and how it was disposed.
16. A description of the sludge/biosol ids disposal methods , including the following
information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one method is used,
including the percentage disposed of by each method.
a) For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the
Order number of WDRs that regulate it.
b) For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2023-0046 13
CITY OF DINUBA
DINUBA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
c) For incineration, include: the name and locations of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method
of ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving as (if applicable).
d) For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
17. The Discharger shall provide the findings from the testing of the aerobic digestor
liner and sludge drying area asphalt specified per Section II.G. (if conducted during
that year).
C. PRETREATMENT REPORTING
The Discharger shall submit quarterly , and annual pretreatment reports as required by
Standard Provision E.7 of the SPRRs.
D. VOLUMETRIC REPORTING
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/recycled_water/ ) amended in
December 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water are required t o
report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced , and effluent,
including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall submit an annual
report to the State Water B oard by April 30 of each calendar year furnished with the
information detailed below. The Discharger must submit this annual report containing
monthly data in electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet Geotracker
system (https://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/ ). Required data shall be submitted to
the Geotracker database under a site -specific global identification number. Any data
will be made publicly accessible as machine readable data sets. The Discharger must
report all applicable items listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of influent wastewater collected and treated by the
wastewater treatment facility.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of trea tment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to one of the
following, specifying level of treatment:
i. Inland surface waters , specifying volume required to maintain minimum
instream flow.
ii. Enclosed bays, estuaries and coastal l agoons, and ocean waters.
iii. Natural systems, such as wetlands, wildlife habitats , and duck clubs, where
augmentation or restoration has occurred, and that are not part of a wastewater
treatment plant or water recycling treatment plant.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2023-0046 14
CITY OF DINUBA
DINUBA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
iv. Underground in jection wells, such as those classified by U.S. EPA’s
Underground Injection Control Program, excluding groundwater recharge via
subsurface application intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a coastal
aquifer with a seawater interface.
v. Land, where be neficial uses is not taking place, including evaporation or
percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding pasture
or fields with harvested crops.
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of
this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial
enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take other
enforcement actions. Failure to comply with this Order m ay result in the assessment of
Administrative Civil Liability of up to $10,000 per violation, per day, depending on the
violation, pursuant to the Water Code, including sections 13268, 13350 and 13385. The
Central Valley Water Board reserves its right to t ake any enforcement actions authorized by
law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may petition the
State Water Resources Control Board to review the action in accordance with California
Water Code section 13320 and Califo rnia Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 2050 and
following. The State Water Resources Control Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m.,
30 days after the date of this MRP, except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this
Order falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the
State Water Resources Control Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the
law and regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found on the internet
(http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices /petitions/water_quality) or will be provided on
request .
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program starting 1 November 2023 .
I, PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the forgoing is a full, true and
correct copy of the Monitoring and Reporting Program issued by the California Regional
Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 12 October 2023 .
PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Office r
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2023-0046 16
CITY OF DINUBA
DINUBA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FA CILITY
TULARE COUNTY
IV. GLOSSARY
amsl Above mean sea level
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Comp osite Influent samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least
eight aliquots over a 24-hour period . Effluent samples shall be a flow-
proportioned composite consisting of at least eight aliquots over a 24 -hour
period.
Daily Once per day.
1/Week Once per week.
2/Week Twice per week on non -consecutive days .
1/Month Once per month.
2/Month Twice per month in non-consecutive weeks .
1/Quarter Once per quarter.
2/Year Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) in non-consecutive
quarters unless otherwise specified .
1/Year Once per year .
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
Metals Metals analysis shall include, at a minimum: aluminum, arsenic, barium,
cadmium, chromium, coper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium,
silver, and zinc.
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 mi lliliters
Standard Minerals Analysis shall include: alkalinity (as CaCO 3), bicarbonate (as CaCO 3),
boron, calcium, carbonate (as CaCO 3), chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrate as N, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total
dissolved solids, and verification that the analysis is complete (i.e.,
cation/anion balance).