Facility Description, the Discharger operates the Facility 
in a manner that maximizes land discharge year-round rather than 
discharging to surface water during the wet season. Further, t he 
Discharger has stated that an effluent discharge to surface water is more 
likely to occur during rain- on-snow events or when the ponds fill with 
snow. Under such conditions, the effluent would likely be diluted due to 
the additional water in the ponds and/or elevated inflow and infiltration in 
the collection system. On a similar note, the receiving water flow and 
water quality characteristics during a discharge to surface water event 
may differ significantly from the conditions present on the day of the 
simulated discharge event. As a result, the simulated discharge data from 
2017 and 2019 may not be fully representative of the characteristics of an 
effluent discharge (and the receiving water) when an actual discharge to 
surface water event may be necessary. However, the simulated discharge 
data is useful for preliminary screening and assessment.    
c. Assimilative Capacity/Mixing Zone  - Not Applicable
d. Conversion Factors.  The default U.S. EPA conversion factors contained
in Appendix 3 of the SIP were used to convert the applicable dissolved
criteria to total criteria when developing effluent limitations for CTR metals.
Furthermore, a conservative dissolved- to-total metal translator of 1 has
been  used when developing effluent limitations for CTR metals. If the
Di
scharger performs studies to determine site-specific dissolved- to-total
metal translators this Order may be reopened to modify the effluent
limitations for the applicable inorganic constituents.
e. Hardness-Dependent CTR Metals Criteria.  The CTR and the NTR
contain water quality criteria for seven metals that vary as a function of
hardness. The lower the hardness the lower the water quality criteria. The
metals with hardness-dependent criteria include: cadmium, copper,
chromium III, lead, nickel, silver, and zinc. For South Fork Battle Creek,
the Basin Plan contains hardness-dependent site-specific objectives for
cadmium, copper, and zinc that apply in lieu of the CTR acute criteria for
these metals. This Order has established the criteria for hardness-
dependent metals based on the hardness of the simulated effluent.
Typically, receiving water hardness (actual ambient hardness), as required
by the SIP and the CTR, is utilized for determining criteria. However, when
effluent hardness is observed to be lower than receiving water hardness
for a non-effluent dominated condition, it is protective to use the lowest
effluent hardness rather than the receiving water hardness, because usingORDER R5-2 023-0 040 
NPDES NO. CA0084069 
TEHAMA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO.1 
MINERAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-20a higher ambient hardness per the CTR may not comply with the Narrative 
Toxicity Objective.  
The hardness for South Fork Battle Creek was  collected on two sampling 
events during the term of the Order. On 14 February 2017 the receiving 
water hardness was measured at 17 mg/L as CaCO 3 and on 9 April 2019 
the receiving water hardness was measured at 18 mg/L as CaCO 3.  
Effluent hardness collected on 14 February 2017 and 9 April 2019, w as 
13 mg/L as CaCO 3 and 17 mg/L as CaCO 3, respectively . Effluent 
hardness (at 13 mg/L as CaCO 3) was used to calculate hardness 
dependent metals criteria due the nature of the non-effluent dominated 
discharge condition and the effluent hardness being lower than the 
observed receiving water hardness.  
The Central Valley Water Board finds that the use of the ambient 
hardness values and associated acute and chronic criteria shown in Table 
F-6, below, to conduct the reasonable potential analysis (RPA) and
calculate WQBELs, protect beneficial uses and comply with the SIP, CTR,
and the Basin Plan.
Table F-6. Summary of Criteria for CTR Hardness-dependent Metals 
CTR Metals Ambient 
Hardness 
(mg/L) Acute Criteria 
(μg/L, total)  Chronic Criteria 
(μg/L, total)  
Copper 13 2.0 1.6 
Chromium III 13 330 39 
Cadmium 13 0.45 0.5 
Lead 13 6.1 0.24 
Nickel 13 83 9.3 
Silver 13 0.12 -- 
Zinc 13 6.4 21 
Table F-6 Notes: 
1.Criteria (ug/L total) . Acute and chronic criteria were rounded to two significant
figures in accordance with the CTR (40 C.F.R. section 131.38(b)(2)).
2.Ambient hardness (mg/L).  Values in Table F-6 represent observed effluent
hardness measurements because the effluent hardness is lower than receiving
water hardness. For non-effluent dominated condition , the lowest effluent hardness
should be used, because using a higher ambient hardness per the CTR may not
comply with the Narrative Toxicity Objective.
3.Acute Criteria.  The acute criteria for cadmium, c opper, and z inc are based on site-
specific objectives provided in the Basin Plan.
3.Determining the Need for WQBELs
Clean Water Act section 301(b)(1)(C) requires effluent limitations necessary to 
meet water quality standards, and 40 C.F.R. section 122.44(d) requires NPDES ORDER R5-2 023-0 040 
NPDES NO. CA0084069 
TEHAMA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO.1 
MINERAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-21permits to include conditions that are necessary to achieve water quality 
standards established under section 303 of the CWA, including State narrative 
criteria for water quality. Federal regulations at 40 C.F.R. 122.44(d)(1)(i) state, 
“Limitations must control all pollutants or pollutant parameters (either 
conventional, nonconventional, or toxic pollutants) which the Director 
determines are or may be discharged at a level that will cause, have the 
reasonable potential to cause, or contribute to an excursion above any State 
water quality standard, including State narrative criteria for water quality.” 
Additionally, 40 C.F.R. section 122(d)(1)(vii) requires effluent limits to be 
developed consistent with any available WLAs developed and approved for the 
discharge . The process to determine whether a WQBEL is required as 
described in 40 C.F.R. section 122.44(d)(1)(i) is referred to as a reasonable 
potential analysis or RPA . Central Valley Water Board staff conducted RPAs for 
nearly 200 constituents, including the 126 U.S. EPA priority toxic pollutants . 
This section includes details of the RPAs for constituents of concern for the 
Facility . The entire RPA is included in the administrative record and a summary 
of the constituents of concern is provided in Attachment G. 
For priority pollutants, the SIP dictates the procedures for conducting the RPA. 
For non-priority pollutants the Central Valley Water Board is not restricted to 
one particular RPA method; therefore, the RPAs have been conducted based 
on U.S. EPA guidance considering multiple lines of evidence and the site-
specific conditions of the discharge. Ammonia, acute toxicity, chlorine residual, 
nitrate plus nitrite, pH, pathogens, and temperature are not priority pollutants. 
Due to the site-specific conditions of the discharge, the Central Valley Water 
Board has used professional judgment in determining the appropriate method 
for conducting the RPA for these non-priority pollutant parameters based on a 
qualitative assessment as recommended by U.S. EPA guidance. U.S. EPA’s 
September 2010 NPDES Permit Writer’s Manual, page 6 -30, states, “State 
implementation procedures might allow, or even require, a permit writer to 
determine reasonable potential through a qualitative assessment process 
without using available facility-specific effluent monitoring data or when such 
data are not available…A permitting authority might also determine that 
WQBELs are required for specific pollutants for all facilities that exhibit certain 
operational or discharge characteristics (e.g., WQBELs for pathogens in all 
permits for POTWs discharging to contact recreational waters).” U.S. EPA’s 
TSD also recommends that factors other than effluent data should be 
considered in the RP A, “When determining whether or not a discharge causes, 
has the reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an excursion of a 
numeric or narrative water quality criterion for individual toxicants or for toxicity, 
the regulatory authority can use a variety of factors and information where 
facility-specific effluent monitoring data are unavailable. These factors also 
should be considered with available effluent monitoring data.” With regard to 
POTWs, U.S. EPA recommends that, “POTWs should also be charac terized for 
the possibility of chlorine and ammonia problems.” (TSD, p. 50)  ORDER R5-2 023-0 040 
NPDES NO. CA0084069 
TEHAMA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO.1 
MINERAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-22a. Constituents with Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL).
40 C.F.R. section 122.44(d)(1)(vii) provides: “When developing water
quality-based effluent limits under [section 122.44(d)(1)], the permitting
authority shall ensure that: (A) The level of water quality to be achieved by
limits on point sources established under this paragraph is derived from,
and complies with all applicable water quality standards; and (B) Effluent
limits developed to protect a narrative water quality criterion, a numeric
water quality criterion, or both, are consistent with the assumptions and
requirements of any available WLA for the discharge prepared by the
State and approved by U.S. EPA pursuant to [Total Maximum Daily Loads
regulations].” U.S. EPA construes 40 C.F.R. section 122.44(d)(1)(vii)(B) to
mean that “w hen WLAs are available, they must be used to translate
water quality standards into NPDES permit limits.” 54 Fed. Reg. 23868,
23879 (June 2, 1989).
Sacramento River, to which the discharge is hydraulically connected to is 
subject to TMDLs for diazinon and chlorpyrifos and wasteload allocations 
under those TMDLs are available. The Central Valley Water Board 
developed WQBEL’s for these pollutants pursua nt to 40 C.F.R. section 
122.44(d)(1