existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the Califor nia Environment Quality Act, in accordance with California
Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301, because the waste discharge requirements
do not authorize an expansion of use beyond that wh ich currently exists.
58. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (E PA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CF R 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge,
which establishes management cr iteria for protection of gr ound and surface waters, sets
application rates for heavy metals, and establis hes stabilization and disinfection criteria.
59. The Central Valley Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines in
establishing this Order, but the Central Valley Water Board is not the implementing
agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The Disc harger may have separate and/or additional
compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to the EPA.
60. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vest ed right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice
61. All the above and the supplemental informa tion and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference her ein, were considered in establishing the
following conditions of discharge.
62. The Discharger and interested agencies and pers ons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided
an opportunity for a public hearing and an opport unity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
63. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public meeting.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order 5-01-100 is rescinded except for the purpose of
enforcement and, pursuant to Water Code sect ions 13263 and 13267, the El Dorado Irrigation
District, it agents, successors, and assigns, in or der to meet the prov isions contained in
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0045 16
EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT
CAMINO HEIGHTS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY

Division 7 of the Water Code and regulat ions adopted hereunder, shall comply with the
following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitio ns, and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Provis ions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage cour ses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in
the Findings is prohibited.
4. Discharge of waste classified as “hazar dous” under California Code of Regulations,
title 23, section 2521, is prohibited.
5. Discharge of waste classified as ‘designat ed’, as defined in Wa ter Code section 13173,
is prohibited.
6. Discharge of toxic substances into the wa stewater treatment system or land application
areas such that biological treatment me chanisms are disrupted is prohibited.
7. Surfacing of wastewater outside and/or downgradient of the ponds or LAAs is
prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. The influent flows to the WWTF s hall not exceed the following limits:
Influent Flow Measurement Influent Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 23 million gallons
Average Dry Weather Flow 2, 3 60,000 gpd
Maximum Average Daily Flow 4 76,000 gpd
1 Based on the calendar year (January through December).
2 Dry weather is defined as the months of July through September, inclusive.
3 As determined by the total influent flow for the dry weather period divided by 92.
4 As determined by the total influent flow for the ca lendar month divided by the number of days in that
month.
2. The monthly average effluent flow to the sp ray disposal field shall be no greater than
40,000 gpd.
3. The monthly average effluent flow to the su bsurface drip irrigation field shall be no
greater than 59,000 gpd.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0045 17
EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT
CAMINO HEIGHTS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY

4. The discharge shall not cause degradation of any water supply.
5. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall cause a po llution or nuisance as defined
by the Porter-Cologne Water Q uality Control Act, section 13050.
6. The discharge shall remain within t he permitted waste treatment/containment
structures and land applicati on areas at all times.
7. Public contact with wastew ater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as
fences, signs, or acceptable alternatives.
8. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be
released or discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes violation of the
Groundwater Limitations.
9. Objectionable odors originating at the fac ility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the property at an intensit y that creates or threatens to create nuisance conditions.
10. As a means of discerning compliance wit h Discharge Specificati on B.9, the dissolved
oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastew ater pond shall not be less
than 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the DO in any single
pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive sampling events, the Discharger shall
report the findings to the Central Valley Wa ter Board in writing within 10 days and shall
include a specific plan to resolve t he low DO results within 30 days.
11. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
12. All ponds and open containm ent structures shall be ma naged to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control pr ogram shall be implemented to ensure that small coves
and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through cont rol of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water
surface.
d. If needed, the Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito
Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding.
13. All treatment, storage, and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
14. The treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall have sufficient capacity
to accommodate allowable wastewater fl ow, design seasonal precipitation, and
ancillary inflow and infiltration during the winter while ensuring continuous compliance
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0045 18
EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT
CAMINO HEIGHTS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY

with all requirements of this Order. Design seasonal prec ipitation shall be based on
total annual precipitation using a return per iod of 100 years, distributed monthly in
accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
15. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the
integrity of containment dam s and berms and prevent over topping and/or structural
failure. Unless a California-registered ci vil engineer certif ies (based on design,
construction, and conditions of operation and maintenance) t hat less freeboard is
adequate, the operating freeboar d in any pond shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically from the lowest possible point of ov erflow). As a means of
management and to discern compliance with th is requirement, the Discharger shall
install and maintain a permanent staff gauge with calibration marks that clearly show
the water level at design capacity and enabl e determination of available operational
freeboard in Pond 3.
16. On or about 15 October of each year, available pond stor age capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply wit h Discharge Specificat ions B.14 and B.15.
C. Land Application Area Specifications
1. Irrigation runoff (tailwater) and storm water runoff shall be completely contained within
the designated LAAs or be returned to t he WWTF, and shall not enter any surface
water drainage course.
2. Irrigation of the spray field shall not be performed during precipitation, within 24 hours
after any measurable prec ipitation event, or when the ground is saturated.
3. The Discharger shall cease spray irri gation of wastewater when winds exceed
30 mph.
4. The discharge of treated wastewater to the spray field shall be at reasonable
agronomic rates designed to maximize uptake and breakdown of waste constituents in the root zone and minimize the percolation of waste constituents below the root zone.
5. Application of effluent shall comply with the following se tback requirements:
Setback Definition
1 Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of LAAs to property boundary 50
Edge of LAAs to public road 50
Edge of LAAs to irrigation well 100
Edge of LAAs to domestic well 100
Edge of LAAs to manmade or natural surface water drainage course
2 or spring 50
1 As defined by the wetted area produced during irrigation.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0045 19
EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT
CAMINO HEIGHTS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY

2 Excluding ditches used exclusively for tailwater re turn and drainages that do not discharge to
 surface waters.
6. The LAAs shall be managed to prevent br eeding of mosquitoes. In particular:
a. There shall be no standing water 72 hours after irrigation ceases;
b. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes
shall not be used to store tailwater or storm water runoff.
D. Solids/Sludge Dispo sal Specifications
1. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during prelim inary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that
will not be subject to further treatment at the facility. Bios olids refers to sludge that has
undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to federal and
state regulations as a soil am endment for agriculture, silvic ulture, horticulture, and land
recycling.
2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, and ponds as needed
to ensure optimal plant operation.
3. The Discharger shall monitor sludge accumu lation in the wastewater treatment/storage
ponds at least every five years beginning in 2013 , and shall periodically remove sludge
as necessary to maintain adeq uate storage capacity. Spec ifically, if the estimated
volume of sludge in the treatment ponds exceeds 15 percent of the permitted pond
capacity, the Discharger shall complete sludge cleanout within 12 months after the date
of the estimate.
4. Any handling and storage of re sidual sludge, solid waste, and biosolids at the WWTF
shall be temporary (i.e., no longer than two years) and controlled and contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formati on and precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soils in a mass or c oncentration that will violate the groundwater
limitations of this Order.
5. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent with Div ision 2 of Title 27. Removal for further
treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites operated in accordance with valid waste
discharge requirements issued by a Regional Wa ter Board will satisfy this specification.
This does not preclude land application of bi osolids at the WWTF site in accordance
with another Order (i.e., general or i ndividual Waste Disc harge Requirements).
6. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste discharge
requirements issued by a regional water boar d or the State Water Board except in
cases where a local (e.g., county) progr am has been authorized by a regional water
board. In most cases, this will mean t he General Biosolids Order (State Water
Resources Control Board Water Qualit y Order 2004-12-DWQ, “General Waste
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0045 20
EL DORADO IRRIGATION DISTRICT
CAMINO HEIGHTS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY

Discharge Requirements for t he Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil
Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Hort icultural, and Land Reclamation Activities”).
For a biosolids use project to be cover ed by Order 2004-12-DWQ, the Discharger must
file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a Notice of Applicabilit y for each project.
7. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self-implementing federal
regulations of 40 Code of Federal Regu lations part 503, which are subject to
enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the Central Valley Water Board. If during the life of
this Order, the State accepts primacy for implementation of part 503, the Central Valley
Water Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
8. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported in writing to
the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
E.