FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of San Andreas and serves
a population of approximately 2 ,200 and has no industrial users. The design average dry
weather flow (ADWF) capacity of the Facility is 0.32 million gallons per day (MGD) and
the peak hour flow is 1.9 MGD, excluding the capacity of the High Flow Treatment
System (HFTS) .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility treatment system consists of one mechanical screen, a primary clarifier,
a trickling filter, a two -train nitrifying activated sludge reactor basin, a secondary
clarifier, disk filters, and chlorine disinfection. The treatment system also inclu des
ancillary systems for pH adjustment and chemical feed for disinfection and de -
chlorination. For effluent discharge to North Fork Calaveras River, all unit processes
are needed, except for the trickling filter. For discharge to the DLDA, no nitrificatio n
is required. Therefore, the reactor basins, disk filters, pH control system, and de -
chlorination can be taken offline to reduce costs and salt addition to the effluent.
Solids removed are treated by aerobic digestion, dewatered by filter press, and
dispo sed of by a contractor. The Facility has two storm water storage ponds.
The foregoing treatment system has a peak hour, day, and month treatment flow
limits of 1.9, 1.3, and 0.8 MGD, respectively. The ADWF capacity of the Facility is
0.32 MGD. Facility influent flows can exceed 1.9 MGD under severe precipitation
conditions. A portion of high influent flows (e.g., above the foregoing limits) may be
treated by the HFTS, which dischargers directly to Pond D, which is a part of the
DLDA. The HFTS consists of a separate chlorination point and contact device
downstream of the mechani cal screen.
The DLDA consists of unlined effluent storage Pond D and approximately 30 acres
(seen in red in Figure B -2, Attachment B). The DLDA may be expanded, as needed,
into the blue areas shown in Figure B -2, Attachment B. Effluent is applied to the
DLDA land via sprinklers. The Discharger submitted a 1 -in-100 Year Season Water
Balance to the Central Valley Water Board that forecasts the current sprinkler
disposal system and Pond D will be sufficient to meet the effluent storage and
disposal needs of the Facility w hen conditions in the North Fork Calaveras River do
not provide sufficient dilution to facilitate surface water discharge.
The primary method of effluent disposal is sprinkler irrigation to of DLDA land.
However, under high and/or persistent precipitation events, the DLDA’s shallow soils
become saturated, and therefore, cannot absorb effluent. During these events,
effluent is stored in Pond D and/or discharged to the North Fork Calaveras River in
quantities not exceeding a dilution ratio of 20:1 (

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is working on an expansion of the chlorine contact basin, replac ing
the antiquated headworks, and upgrad ing the irrigation pumping station (both
mechanical and electrical components). Other planned changes include constructing
a new biosolids storage area closer to the belt press building for use during the rainy
season.
III.