wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
 5. As a means of discerning a threat of noncom pliance with Discharge Specification No. 4, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (one f oot) of all wastewater ponds shall not be less
than 1.0 mg/l.

6. The wastewater treatment and storage ponds shall not have a pH of less th an 6.5 or greater than
10.5.

7. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of wastewater
and optimize the quality of the discharge.

8. The ponds shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregu larities are not created
around the perimeter of the waste surface;
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -20-
S A C R A M E N T O C O U N T Y
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, a nd/or herbicides; and
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
 9. All treatment, storage, and disposal areas shall be desi gned, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.

10. The freeboard in all ponds shall never be less than two feet as measured vertically from the water
surface to the lowest poin t of potential overflow.

11. The wastewater ponds shall have sufficient capa city to accommodate allowable wastewater flow,
design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration. Design seasonal precipitation
shall be based on total annual precipitation usi ng a return period of 100 years, distributed
monthly in accordance with the historical rainfall patterns.

12. On or about 1 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the volume
necessary to comply with Discha rge Specifications No. 10 and No. 11.

13. Public contact with wastewater ponds shall be precluded through such means as fences and
signs, or other acceptable alternatives.

C. Solids Disposal Requirements:

Sludge, as used in this document, means the so lid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during
primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatmen t processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during preliminary treatment . Residual sludge means sludge that will not be
subject to further treatment at th e facility. Biosolids refers to sludge that has undergone sufficient
treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuan t to federal and state regulations as a soil
amendment for agriculture, silviculture, horti culture, and land reclamation.
1. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from sc reens, sumps, ponds, and clarifiers as needed
to ensure optimal plant operation.
2. Treatment and storage of sludge shall be confin ed to the treatment facility property, and shall
be conducted in a manner that precludes infiltra tion of waste constituents into soils in a mass
or at concentrations that will violate th e Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
3. Any storage of residual sludge, so lid waste, and biosolids at th e facility shall be temporary,
and the waste shall be controlled and contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation
and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or at concentrations that will violate the Groundwater Li mitations of this Order.
4. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shal l be disposed of in a manner approved by the
Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for further treatment, disposal, or
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -21-
S A C R A M E N T O C O U N T Y
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


reuse at disposal sites operated in accordance with valid waste discharge requirements issued
by a regional water quality control bo ard will satisfy this specification.
5. Use and disposal of biosolids should comply with the self-imp lementing federal regulations of
40 CFR 503, which are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), not the Regional Board. If during the lif e of this Order the State accepts primacy for
implementation of 40 CFR 503, the Regional Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.

D. Groundwater Limitations:

1. Release of waste constituents from any wastewater treatment or storage system component
associated with the WWTF shall not cause groundwater under and beyond that system
component, as determined by an a pproved well monitoring network, to:

a. Contain any of the following constituents in concentrations greater than those listed
below or greater than ambient background groundwater quality, whichever is greater:

Constituent

 Units Limitation
Boron mg/L 0.7
Chloride mg/L 106 Iron mg/L 0.3 Manganese mg/L 0.05 Sodium mg/L 69
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 mL <2.2 over any
 seven day period
Total Dissolved Solids
1 mg/L 450
Nitrite (as N) mg/l 1 Nitrate (as N) mg/L 10 Ammonia (as ammonia) mg/L 1.5
1 A cumulative impact limit that accounts for several dissolved constituents in
addition to those listed here separately [e.g., alkalinity (carbonate and
bicarbonate), calcium, hardness, phosphate, and potassium].

b. Exhibit a pH of less than 6.5 or greater than 8.4 pH units.

c. Impart taste, odor, toxicity, or color that creates nuisance or imp airs any beneficial
use.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -22-
S A C R A M E N T O C O U N T Y
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


E. Provisions:

1. All of the following reports shall be submitte d pursuant to CWC section 13267 and shall be
prepared as described by Provision 3. a. By 29 February 2004 , the Discharger shall submit a groundwater monitoring well
installation workplan. The workplan sha ll describe the installation of sufficient
monitoring wells to allow evaluation of the groundwater quality upgradient and
downgradient of the ponds. Every monito ring well shall be co nstructed to yield
representative samples from the first saturated zone and to comply with applicable well standards. The workplan shall be cons istent with, and include the items listed in,
the first section of Attachment C, “ Items to be Included in a Monitoring Well
Installation Workplan and a Monitoring Well Installation Report of Results.”

b. By 30 June 2004 , the Discharger shall submit a Monitoring Well Installation Report
that describes the installati on of groundwater monitoring wells and contains the items
found in the second section of Attachment C.

c. By 15 July 2004 , the Discharger shall submit a Boiler Blowdown Compliance Report .
The report shall contain sufficient analytical data to fully describe whether the boiler
blowdown waste should be classified as desi gnated waste. If designated waste, the
Discharger shall describe how it either (a) made facility modifications such that all
boiler blowdown waste is fully contained in a tank and disposed of off-site at a
permitted facility, or (b) shall submit a RWD for a Title 27 impoundment. If not
designated waste, the Discha rger shall describe how (a) it has made facility
modification such that the waste is discharged into the facility’s sanitary sewer system,
(b) shall estimate the resulting change in ch aracter and volume of the total discharge,
and (c) shall estimate the resulti ng change in groundwater quality.
 d. By 30 September 2005 , the Discharger shall submit a Background Groundwater
Quality Study Report . For each groundwater monitoring parameter/constituent
identified in the MRP, the report shal l present a summary of monitoring data,
calculation of the concentr ation in background monitori ng wells, and comparison of
background groundwater quality to that in we lls used to monitor impacts from the
discharge. Determination of background qua lity should be made using the methods
described in Title 27, Section 20415(e)(10), a nd shall be based on data from at least
four consecutive quarterly (plus any more frequent) groundwater monitoring events.
For each monitoring parameter/constituen t, the report shall compare measured
concentrations in the downgradient m onitoring wells against the calculated
background concentration, as well as the in terim numeric limitations set forth in
Groundwater Limitation D.1.a.
 e. If, after consideration of the information provided pursuant to Provision E.1.d, the
Discharger or Executive Officer determines that a particular waste constituent listed in
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -23-
S A C R A M E N T O C O U N T Y
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


Groundwater Limitation D.1.a of this Orde r has degraded the underlying groundwater,
then within 120 days of notification by the Executive Officer , the Discharger shall
submit a BPTC Evaluation Workplan that sets forth the scope and schedule for a
systematic and comprehensive technical ev aluation of the waste constituent(s) to
determine whether additional best practicable treatment and control is necessary to
establish that BPTC has been applied and consequent groundwater degradation
minimized. The workplan shall contain a preliminary evaluation of each component
of the wastewater treatm ent plant and propose a time schedule for completing the
comprehensive technical evaluation of a ppropriate treatment and control for each
waste constituent causing degradation. The schedule to complete the evaluation shall
be as short as practicable, and shall not exceed one year. A technical report containing
a complete BPTC evaluation and statisti cally quantifying effl uent quality and
consequent groundwater quality for the wa ste constituents shall be submitted in
accordance with the schedule approved by the Executive Officer.

f. At least 60 days prior to any sludge removal and disposal, the Discharger shall
submit a Biosolids Management Plan . The plan shall estimate quantity of biosolids to
be removed from the ponds; method of remova l; method of drying; leachate and runoff
controls for any temporary on-site biosolid s drying and storage areas to prevent water
quality impacts; a sampling and analysis plan; and the name, location, and permitting information for the selected biosolids disposal site.

2. In accordance with California Business and Professions Code sections 6735, 7835, and
7835.1, engineering and geologic ev aluations and judgments shall be performed by or under
the direction of registered professionals compet ent and proficient in the fields pertinent to
the required activities. All technical reports sp ecified herein that contain workplans for, that
describe the conduct of investigations and studi es, or that contain technical conclusions and
recommendations concerning en gineering and geology shall be prepared by or under the
direction of appropriately qualif ied professional(s), even if not explicitly stated. Each
technical report submitted by the Discharger shall contain the responsible licensed
professional's signature and/or stamp of the seal. As de scribed in the Monitoring and
Reporting Program, this provision applies to the submittal of quarterly groundwater
monitoring reports but not to the submittal of monthly or annual reports.
3. Upon completion of the tasks set forth in Pr ovision E.1, the Regional Board shall consider
the evidence provided and make a determina tion regarding whether the Discharger has
justified its treatment and c ontrol as BPTC and determine the final numeric groundwater
limitations that are consistent with Resolution No. 68-16.
4. The Discharger shall comply with M onitoring and Reporting Program No. R5-2004-0003,
which is part of this Order, and any revisi ons thereto as ordered by the Executive Officer.

5. The Discharger shall comply with the "Sta ndard Provisions and Re porting Requirements for
Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 Marc h 1991, which are attached hereto and made
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -24-
S A C R A M E N T O C O U N T Y
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


part of this Order by reference. This attach ment and its individual paragraphs are commonly
referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."

6. The Information Sheet, which is attached he reto, is an integral part of this Order .

7. Upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanita ry sewer system resulting in a sanitary sewer
overflow, the Discharger shall ta ke any necessary remedial acti on to (a) control or limit the
volume of sewage discharged, (b) terminate the sewage discharge as rapidly as possible, and
(c) recover as much as possible of the sewage discharged (including wash down water) for
proper disposal. The Discharger shall implemen t all applicable remedial actions including,
but not limited to, the following:

a. Interception and rerou ting of sewage flows around the sewage line failure;
b. Vacuum truck recovery of sanitary sewer overflows and wash down water;
c. Use of portable aerators where complete r ecovery of the sanitary sewer overflows are
not practicable and where severe oxygen depl etion is expected in surface waters; and
d. Cleanup of sewage-related debris at the overflow site.

8. The Discharger shall provide certified wast ewater treatment plant operators in accordance
with Title 23 CCR, Division 3, Chapter 26.

9. The Discharger shall report promptly to the Regional Board any material change or
proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.

10. The Discharger shall report to the Regional Bo ard any toxic chemical release data it reports
to the State Emergency Response Commission w ithin 15 days of reporting the data to the
Commission pursuant to secti on 313 of the “Emergency Planning and Community Right to
Know Act of 1986.”

11. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant-fr ee wastewater to be discharged into the
wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal system in amount s that significantly diminish
the system’s capability to comply with this Or der. Pollutant-free wastewater means rainfall,
groundwater, cooling waters, and condensates that are essentially free of waste constituents.

12. The Discharger shall submit to the Regional Board on or before each compliance report due
date, the specified document or, if appropriate , a written report detailing compliance or
noncompliance with the specific schedule date a nd task. If noncompliance is being reported,
then the Discharge shall state the reasons for such noncompliance and provide an estimate of
the date when the Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the
Regional Board in writing when it returns to compliance with the time schedule.

13. In the event of any change in control or ow nership of land or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall no tify the succeeding owner or operator of the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -25-
S A C R A M E N T O C O U N T Y
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this
office.

14. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of
technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may result
in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court orders requ iring correc tive action
or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or recession of this Order.

15. A copy of this Order shall be kept at th e discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shal l be familiar with its contents.

16. The Regional Board will review this Order pe riodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.


I, THOMAS R. PINKOS, Executive Of ficer, do hereby certify the foregoi ng is a full, true, and correct
copy of an Order adopted by the California Regiona l Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley
Region, on 29 January 2004.

 original signed by
 THOMAS R. PINKOS, Executive Officer

AMENDED
ALO: 1/29/04
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATE R QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTI NG PROGRAM NO. R5-2004-0003
FOR
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY

This Monitoring and Reporting Progra m (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring influent, effluent,
groundwater, surface water, and biosolids. This MR P is issued pursuant to Water Code Section 13267.
The Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by
the Executive Officer. Specific sample station loca tions shall be approved by Regional Board staff prior
to implementation of sampling activities. All samples should be representative of the volume a nd nature of the discharge or matrix of material
sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of
custody form.

Field test instruments (such as t hose used to test pH and dissolve d oxygen) may be used provided that:
1. The operator is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments; 2. The instruments are field calibra ted prior to each monitoring event;
3. Instruments are serviced and/ or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended frequency;
and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as descri bed in the “Reporting” section of this MRP.


INFLUENT MONITORING

The Discharger shall conduct influent monitoring of the wastewater entering the wastewater ponds.
Samples shall be collected at the sa me frequency and at approximately the same time as the raw sewage
pond samples and should be obtained at the diversion box prior to discha rge into the raw sewage ponds.
Grab samples are considered representative of the influent. Influent mon itoring shall include, at a
minimum, the following:

Constituents
 Units Type of Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency

Flow gallons Metered Daily Monthly
BOD 5 1 mg/l Grab Quarterly Quarterly

1 BOD 5 denotes five-day, 20° Celsius Biochemical Oxygen Demand.




MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2004-0003 -2-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SACRAMENTO COUNTY


WASTEWATER AND POND MONITORING

Wastewater samples shall be coll ected from the wastewater ponds. Grab samples are considered
representative of the wastewater . Wastewater and pond monitoring sh all include, at a minimum, the
following:

Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Dissolved Oxygen 1, 2 mg/l Grab Weekly Monthly
Freeboard 3 0.1 Feet Measurement Weekly Monthly
Berm Seepage 4 NA Observation Weekly Monthly
Odors -- Observation Weekly Monthly
pH 1, 2 std. Grab Weekly Monthly
BOD 5 5 mg/l Grab Monthly Monthly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/l Grab Monthly Monthly Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm Grab Monthly Monthly Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/l Grab Monthly Monthly Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/l Grab Monthly Monthly Standard Minerals
6 mg/l Grab Annually Annually

1 pH and dissolved oxygen monitoring may be conducted with a hand held meter provide meter calibration logs are
maintained. The dissolved ox ygen readings must be collected before 10:00 a.m.
2 If ponds are too low to take a reading, then this shall be noted in the report.
3 Freeboard shall be measured once per week as long as there is at least three feet of fr eeboard in each pond. If the
freeboard in either pond is less than three feet, then freeboard shall be measured twice weekly.
4 Pond containment berms shall be observed for signs of seepage or surfacing wate r along the exterior toe of the berm.
If surfacing water is found, then a sample shall be co llected and tested for pH and total dissolved solids.
5 BOD 5 denotes five-day, 20° Celsius Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
6 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following: Barium, Boron, Calcium, Chloride, Iron, Magnesium,
Manganese, Potassium, Sodium, Sulfate, Total Alkalinity (including alkalinity series), and Hardness.


GROUNDWATER MONITORING

Beginning with the second quarter of 2004, the Discharger shall impl ement the following groundwater
monitoring program. Prior to cons truction of any groundwater monitori ng wells, the Discharger shall
submit plans and specifications to the Board for review and approval. Once installed, all new wells shall
be added to the MRP, and shall be sampled a nd analyzed according to the schedule below.

Prior to purging, groundwater elevati ons shall be measured, and the well s shall be purged at least three
well volumes until pH and electri cal conductivity have stabilized prior to sampling. Depth to
groundwater shall be measured to th e nearest 0.01 feet. Water table el evations shall be calculated and
used to determine groundwater gradie nt and direction of flow. Sample s shall be collected using approved
EPA methods.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2004-0003 -3-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SACRAMENTO COUNTY


Groundwater monitoring shall includ e, at a minimum, the following:


Constituent
Units
Type of Sample Sampling and Reporting
Frequency 3
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 feet Measurement Quarterly
Groundwater elevation 1 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly
Gradient feet/feet Calculated Quarterly Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly pH std. Grab Quarterly Total Dissolved Solids mg/l Grab Quarterly Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/l Grab Quarterly Ammonia Nitrogen mg/l Grab Quarterly Total Coliform Organisms
2 MPN/100 ml Grab Quarterly
Boron mg/l Grab Quarterly Chloride mg/l Grab Quarterly Iron mg/l Grab Quarterly Manganese mg/l Grab Quarterly Sodium mg/l Grab Quarterly Standard Minerals
4 mg/l Grab Annually

1 Groundwater elevation shall be determined based on depth- to-water measurements using a surveyed measuring point
elevation on the well and a surveyed reference elevation.
2 Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions. If the results from sampling any monitoring well show that total
coliform organisms exceed the Gr oundwater Limitation, then th e Discharger shall immediately notify staff and, if it so
desires, may conduct supplemental sampling events within a seven-day period. These events shall include depth to groundwater, groundwater elevation, gradient, and grad ient direction for all wells. Voluntary supplemental
groundwater monitoring and reporting shall comply with all requirements herein.
3 Beginning with the second quarter of 2004.
4 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: Calcium, Magnesium,
Potassium, Sulfate, Total Alkalinity (incl uding alkalinity series), and Hardness.


BIOSOLIDS MONITORING

The Discharger shall keep records regarding the quant ity of biosolids stored on site, the quantity removed
for disposal, and any sampling and anal ytical data The records shall al so indicate that steps taken to
reduce odor and other nuisan ce conditions. Records shall be stored onsite and available for review during
inspections. If biosolids are transp orted off-site for disposal, then the Discharger shall submit records
identifying the hauling company, the amount of biosolid s transported, the date re moved from the facility,
the location of disposal, and copies of all analytic al data required by the entity accepting the waste.
All records shall be submitt ed as part of the Annual Monitoring Report.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2004-0003 -4-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SACRAMENTO COUNTY


REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discha rger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date, sample
type (e.g., effluent, pond, etc.), and re ported analytical result for each sample are readily discernible. The
data shall be summarized in such a manner to cl early illustrate complian ce with waste discharge
requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as a pplicable. The results of any monitoring done more
frequently than required at the locations specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be
reported in the next sche duled monitoring report.
 As required by the California Business and Pr ofessions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, all
Groundwater Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct supervision of a Registered Engineer
or Geologist and signed by th e registered professional.

A. Monthly Monitoring Reports

Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board on the 1
st day of the second month
following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 Marc h). At a minimum, the reports shall
include:
1. Results of influent and wastewater pond monitoring;
2. A scaled facility map depicting loca tions where freeboard is measured;
3. A comparison of monitoring data to the discha rge specifications and an explanation of any
violation of those requirements. Data shall be presented in tabular format;
4. If requested by staff, copies of laboratory analytical report(s); and
5. A calibration log verifying calibration of all hand held monitoring instruments and devices used to
comply with the prescrib ed monitoring program.

B. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Beginning with the second quarter of 2004, the Discharger shall establish a quarterly sampling
schedule for groundwater such that samples are obtained approximately every three months.
Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Board by the 1st day of the second month
after the quarter (i.e. the January-Mar ch quarterly reports is due by May 1st) each year. The
Quarterly Report shall include the following:
1. Results of groundwater monitoring. The results of regular monthl y monitoring reports for March,
June, September and December may be incorporated into their corresponding quarterly monitoring
report;
2. A narrative description of a ll preparatory, monitoring, sampling, a nd analytical testing activities
for the groundwater monitoring. Th e narrative shall be sufficiently detailed to verify compliance
with the WDR, this MRP, and the Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements. The
narrative shall be suppo rted by field logs for each well documenting depth to groundwater;
parameters measured before, during, and after purging; method of purgi ng; calculation of casing
volume; and total volume of water purged;
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2004-0003 -5-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SACRAMENTO COUNTY


3. Calculation of groundwater eleva tions, an assessment of groundwater flow direction and gradient
on the date of measurement, comparison of prev ious flow direction a nd gradient data, and
discussion of seasonal trends if any;
4. A narrative discussion of the an alytical results for all groundwate r locations monitored including
spatial and temporal tends, with reference to summ ary data tables, graphs, and appended analytical
reports (as applicable);
5. A comparison of the monitoring data to the groun dwater limitations and an explanation of any
violation of those requirements;
6. Summary data tables of histor ical and current water table elev ations and analytical results;
7. A scaled map showing relevant st ructures and features of the faci lity, the locations of monitoring
wells and any other sampling stations, and groundwat er elevation contours referenced to mean sea
level datum; and
8. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) for groundwater monitoring.

C. Annual Report

An Annual Report shall be prepared as the fourth quarter monitori ng report. The Annual Report shall
include all monitoring data required in the monthl y/quarterly schedule. Th e Annual Report shall be
submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February each year. In addition to the data normally presented,
the Annual Report shall include the following:
1. The contents of the regular qua rterly monitoring report for the last quarter of the year and
groundwater results for anal yses required annually;
2. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the year;
3. An evaluation of the groundwater quality be neath the wastewater treatment f acility;
4. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned or proposed
actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements;
5. A discussion of any data gaps and potential de ficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring system or
reporting program;
6. A copy of the certification for each certified wastewater treatmen t plant operator working at the
facility and a statement about whether the Disc harger is in complian ce with Title 23, CCR,
Division 3, Chapter 26.
7. Results of the wastewater pond annual monitoring; 8. A summary of information on the dispos al of sludge and/or solid waste;
9. A discussion of whether the Discharger antici pates removing biosolids or ripping the ponds in the
coming year, and if so, the anticipated schedule for cleaning, drying, and disposal;
10. A summary of maintenance a nd repair activities performed on the collection system; and
11. A forecast of influent flows, as de scribed in Standard Provisions No. E.4.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2004-0003 -6-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SACRAMENTO COUNTY


A letter transmitting the self-monitoring reports shall accompany each report. Such a letter shall include a
discussion of requirement violations found during the reporting period, and actions taken or planned for
correcting noted violations, such as operation or facil ity modifications. If the discharger has previously
submitted a report describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence w ill be satisfactory. Pursuant to the Standard
Provisions and Reporting Requirements, the transmittal letter shall contain a statement by the discharger or the discharger's authorized agen t, under penalty of perjury, that to the best of the signer's knowledge,
the report is true, a ccurate, and complete.
 The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program as of the date of this Order.


 Ordered by: original signed by
 THOMAS R. PINKOS, Executive Officer

 29 January 2004 (Date) AMENDED ALO:1/29/04


 INFORMATION SHEET
 ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 SACRAMENTO COUNTY BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
Background
The Sacramento County Boys Ranch is a youth correc tional facility with a popul ation of approximately
120 wards and 70 staff. The Boys Ranch is 12 miles south of Folsom and approximately one mile west of Scott Road on Boys Ranch Road, in Sacramento County. The WWTF consists of a gravity collection
system, a 9,000-gallon temporary storage/holding ta nk, a sewage distribution box, and two raw sewage
evaporation/percolation ponds. The Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Va lley Region (Regional Boar d) is reissuing Waste
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 5-01-256 for this facility as directed by State Water
Resources Control Board Order WQO-2003-0014 and as agreed by the Executive Officer. The
Discharger filed suit in Sacramento County Superior Court seeking a writ of mandate to overturn the
Orders of the Regional Board a nd State Board (Sacramento Superi or Court Case No. 03CS011521)

Sanitary Sewer Overflows
The WWTF has experienced four sanitary sewer overflows sin ce December1999. The Discharger
reported that two of these spills were caused fr om corrosion damage along 450 feet section of steel
influent pipe. The Discharger replaced the damage d section of pipe with PV C pipe; however, sanitary
sewer overflows continued to occur after the sewer line replacement. The Discharger has recently
prepared a sanitary sewer operati on, maintenance, overflow preventi on, and response plan and on-site
staff observe the ponds and sewer system daily. This Order requires that the Discharger implement its
plan.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
Surface water drainage from the WWTF is to the Co sumnes River via Deer and Carson Creeks. The
Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento Ri ver and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth Edition
(Basin Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains
implementation plans and policies to achieve the objectiv es for all waters of the Basin. Beneficial use
designations determine the water quality objectives that apply to a water body. For example, pursuant to
the Chemical Constituents objective, waters designat ed as municipal and domes tic supply must meet the
maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for drinking wate r. The Basin Plan sets forth the applicable
beneficial uses (industrial process, industrial service, agricultural, and municipa l and domestic supply in
this instance) of groundwater, proce dure for application of water qual ity objectives, and the process for
and factors to consider in allo cating waste assimilation capacity.

Bacteria Water Quality Objective
The Discharger objected to groundwater limitations with respect to bacter ia contained in previous Order
No. 5-01-256. The State Board, in Order WQ O-2003-0014, supported the groundwater limitations
adopted by the Regional Board. This revised Orde r, therefore, does not modify the groundwater
limitations from the previous WDRs Order No. 5-01- 256, but provides further clarification and findings
with respect to those limitations.
INFORMATION SHEET FOR ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -2-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


The Basin Plan contains a numerical water qualit y objective for Bacteria that states in part:

“The following objectives apply to all ground wate rs of the Sacramento and San Joaquin River
Basins, as the objectives are re levant to the protection of de signated beneficial uses.

“Bacteria

In ground waters used for domestic or municipal supply (MUN), the most probable number of
coliform organisms over any seven-day period shall be less than 2.2/100mL.”
Groundwater, as described in the Basin Plan (page I- 1.00), includes all subsurface waters that occur in
fully saturated zones and fractures within soils and other geologic formations.
In testimony before the State Board and in the Compla int for Writ of Mandate, the Discharger expressed
disagreement with the application of the bacteria objective to waters not in current use for domestic or
municipal supply. The Discharger asse rted that because the Basin Plan states, in part, “In ground waters
used for domestic or municipal supply (MUN),” the ba cteria objective applies only to waters in current
use for municipal or domestic water supply. The Discha rger’s interpretation of the Basin Plan, however,
is not consistent with the Port er-Cologne Water Quality Control Act (Porter-Cologne Act, California
Water Code (CWC) Division 7), the express requirements of the Basi n Plan, State Board Resolution 68-
16 (“Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaini ng High Quality of Waters in California”), or the
long-standing pattern of interpretation of the bacteria objec tive by the Regional Board. With respect to
the Porter-Cologne Act, CWC section 13263, requires wa ste discharge requirements to protect beneficial
uses. To require protection only of current uses would not be consiste nt with the stated policy of the
Porter-Cologne Act to protect the waters of the state for “use and enjoyment by the people of the
state”(CWC section 13000). With respect to the Basin Plan, several provis ions clarify the intent of the
Regional Board with respect to the bacteria objec tive. Although three of the five water quality
objectives for groundwaters in the Basin Plan do not include express reference to designated beneficial
uses, taken in proper context, however, there is no uncertainty of intent. The introduction to the
groundwater section of Chap ter III of the Basin Plan (page III-9.00) is unam biguous about where all the
water quality objectives must be applied, st ating: “The following objectives apply to all ground waters
of the Sacramento and San Joaquin River Basins, as the objectives are releva nt to the protection of
designated beneficial uses .” (Emphasis added)
 Confirming language is found in the Policy for Application of Water Quality Objectiv es (page IV-16.00
of the Basin Plan), which states, “Water quality obj ectives apply to all waters within a surface water or
ground water resource for which benefici al uses have been designated, rath er than at an intake, wellhead
or other point of consumption.” Cl early, the intent of the Basin Plan is to apply water quality objectives
not just to waters currently used, but also to waters designated for use.

The language of the objective references “MUN.” Th e term “MUN”, as used throughout the Basin Plan,
refers to waters that have the de signated beneficial use of domestic or municipal suppl y, regardless of
whether the waters are currently being used for th at purpose. In other words, since “MUN” is a
INFORMATION SHEET FOR ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -3-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


designation (not an actual use), wa ters “used for MUN” and waters “d esignated as MUN” have the same
meaning.
State Board Resolution No. 68-16 requi res the Regional Board to maintain the high quality of waters of
the state unless allowing some change in water qualit y “will be consistent with maximum benefit to the
people of the State, will not unreasonably affect presen t and anticipated beneficial use of such water and
will not result in water quality less than” the Basin Plan standards. The intent of State Board Resolution No. 68-16 and the entire basin planning proc ess is to protect water
quality, whether or not the water is actually used . Allowing degradation of groundwater designated
MUN in violation of water quality objectives merely because the water is not currently being used for
that purpose flies in the face of the entire Porter-Cologne Act regulatory scheme. Such a policy would
permit dischargers to eliminate all beneficial uses in water bodies not currently being used, regardless of
the potential for use or feasibility of attaining the use. Future benefi cial uses would not be protected.
 Further, Chapter II of the Basin Plan (page II-3.0 0) states that all ground waters in the Region are
considered suitable or potentially suitable for M UN unless otherwise designated, and once designated
that consideration of de-designati on of MUN must first sa tisfy specific exception criteria established by
State Board Resolution No. 88-63 (“ Sources of Drinking Water Policy” ). Resolution No. 88-63 itself
says regional boards should designate all waters MUN that do not qualify for exception. The State
Board has indicated that these exceptions must o ccur by means of amendment to the Basin Plan.
Groundwater, as described in Chapter I of the Basin Plan (page I-1.00), includes all subsurface waters
that occur in fully saturated zone s and fractures within soils and ot her geologic formations. The broad
application of the MUN designation to subsurface waters an d rigorous criteria for determining
exceptions indicate that both the Re gional Board and State Board inte nded to protect all ground waters
of the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins. In summary, the current Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basin Plan clearly establishes, and
State Board Resolution No. 88-63 sa ys it should establis h, that all ground wate rs (including those
beneath wastewater ponds and reclamation areas) are designated MUN unless they have been
subsequently formally de-designated. No ground wa ters have been de-designated by amendment to the
Basin Plan. The water quality objecti ve for bacteria in the Basin Pla n, when taken in context, clearly
establishes that the water quality objective applies to all ground waters desi gnated as municipal or
domestic supply (MUN). Application of the Bacteri a Water Quality Objective
1
The coliform water quality objective is expressed in the Basin Plan, and this Order, as less than 2.2 MPN/100 mL over any seven-day period. A colif orm result over 2.2 MPN/100 mL in a quarterly
groundwater constituents is typical ly not rapid enough to require mo re frequent monitoring, the MRP
requires only quarterly groundwater sampling. If the Discharger desires to collect multiple coliform
samples over a seven-day period, then it is free to perform more frequent m onitoring than required by


1 Excerpted from Regional Board Staff Me morandum titled “Supplemental Information Regarding Basin Plan Amendment of
Water Quality Objective for Bacteria in Groundwater” from Thomas Pinkos to Ce leste Cantu, dated 8 January 2004.
INFORMATION SHEET FOR ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -4-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


the MRP. As described in Standard Methods for Examinatio n of Water and Wastewater (American
Public Health Association, et al, 20th Edition), microbal data is typically positively skewed and a
geometric mean if it collects multiple samples over a seven-day period. As stated in the MRP, the
Discharger must report the results of any sampling at intervals more fr equent than those required by the
MRP. The consistent practice of the Regional Board has been to apply the bacteria water quality objective to all ground water designated for use as MUN. A re view of 142 permits issued by the Regional Board
from 1992 through 2003, twenty of which implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare
Lake Basin Plan (hereafter Tulare Lake Basin Plan) demonstr ates the application of the objective.
 All the permits reviewed that identi fied MUN as a beneficial use in findings cited the beneficial uses
designated in the Basin Plan. None of the permits cited a beneficial use as being determined from a
survey of supply wells in the disc harge area or from the potential for su pply wells in the area. Permits
typically contained the following two findings:

1. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses, es tablishes water quality objectives, contains
implementation plans and policies for protecti ng waters of the basi n, and incorporates by
reference plans and policies adopted by the Stat e Water Resources Control Board. Pursuant
to §13263(a) of the California Water Code (C WC), waste discharge requirements must
implement the Basin Plan.
2. The beneficial uses of underlying groundwat er are municipal and domestic water supply,
agricultural supply, industri al service supply, and industrial process supply.

Of the142 permits, seven do not identify MUN as a be neficial use. None of the 135 permits with a
finding of MUN had a separate finding that determin ed ground water underlying th e wastewater facility
was not designated MUN. Five of the seven perm its that do not identify MUN as a beneficial use
contained no finding as to why. During th is review, these exceptions were id entified as errors of fact that
will be corrected when the next permit update occurs (one permit was corrected in 1998). The other two
permits cited the poor natural quality of groundwater th at made MUN infeasible pursuant to criteria of
State Board Resolution 88-63 (both munici palities import surface water supplies).
 Of the 142 permits, 90 contain a groundwater limitati on that specifies no degradation of groundwater
and/or that total coliform organisms shall not exceed 2.2 MPN/100mL in groundwater. Of the six
permits that failed to identify MUN as a beneficial use, two of them require that the effluent be
disinfected and the other f our specify a groundwater limitation of no degradation or of a total coliform
that does not exceed 2.2 MPN/100mL. The “no degrad ation” limitation would normally equate to “less
than 1.1 MPN/100mL,” as determined by Standard Method 9223(B). All 142 permits, including the 52 permits that contain no groundwater limitation, include a prohibition of pollution of groundwater. The lack of a groundwater limitati on typically would be based on
insignificant infiltration of bacter ia to groundwater (e.g., an NPDES discharge that uses no ponds or
unlined sludge drying beds), insignificant threat of degradation of groundwater from bacteria (due to
disinfection criteria applied befo re infiltration into and attenuation within the soil profile), or
INFORMATION SHEET FOR ORDER NO. R5-2004-0003 -5-
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
BOYS RANCH WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SACRAMENTO COUNTY


insignificant threat of degradation of groundwater from bacteria due to the character of the discharge
and the site’s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

