FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Olivehurst and Plumas
Lake and serves a population of approximately 10,000. The design daily average flow
capacity of the Facility is 3.0 million gallons per day (MGD ).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, two oxidation ditches,
three secondary clarifiers, a concrete lined equalization basin, a 6-acre, clay-lined
flow equalization basin used for temporarily holding secondary undisinfected
wastewater when influent flows exceed the tertiary filtration design capacity during
long-term storm events, tertiary filtration and ultraviolet disinfection to treat a design
daily average flow of 3.0 mgd and design daily peak flow of 6.8 mgd. Sludge is
treated in a sludge lagoon, dewatered in sludge drying beds, and hauled to a landfill
for disposal.ORDER R5-2 021 -0024
NPDES NO. CA0077836
OLIVEHURST PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is working on sanitary sewer overflow ( SSO ) prevention upgrades at
the collection system at the Facility. A t the collection system, the Discharger plans to
upgrade an existing lift station , add a new lift station, and upsiz e existing mainline. At
the Facility, the Discharger plans on installing a concrete-lined flow equalization
basin and an additional secondary clarifier. The secondary clarifier is included as
part of the second expansion (Phase 2), the flow equalization basin is not included in
Phase 2. These improvements would not change the Facility ’s capacity, they would
be intended to add storage capacity to the Facility and keep the main lines from
backing up and causing SSOs. This upgrade is in its first stages of planning.
The Discharger also plans to install a new mainline to the Sport Center development
for future development in that area. The project is in its first stages and will not begin
for one to two years. The Discharger would consider upgrading the Facility to Phase
2 as development in this area increases.
Phase 2, originally planned for completion in late 2007, is in the engineering phase
and construction may begin around the expiration of the Order. Construction is not
expected to be completed by the time this Order expires. Phase 2 would increase
the ADWF to 5.1 MGD and require the Discharger to implement a Pretreatment
Program.
III.