13. During April through October, the filter backwash water is directly conveyed to the
irrigation system at the two LAAs instead of the storage ponds. The irrigation system
consists of four 2,500-gallon polyethylene tanks, two 85-gallon pressure tanks, and spray
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023 4
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION AMADOR COUNTY


and drip control systems. All si x tanks are in series, allowing solids settling. The filter
backwash water is applied to approximatel y one acre of Blue Oaks Playground via a
spray system and approximately three acres of adjacent campground area via a drip
system. To prevent irrigation runoff from the playground entering the reservoir, an
earthen berm was installed along a portion of the playground, as shown on Attachment B.
The drip system will not generate tailwater, so that area is not berme d. The irrigation
system process schematic is shown on Attachment C.
14. The Discharger started to operate the filter backwash water irrigation system in
June 2011. The average irrigation rate is approximately 6,400 gpd during the summer months in 2011. The Discharger provided two sets of data for the filter backwash water
that is discharged to the LAAs.
 Filter Backwash Water Result
Constituent Units (6/14/2011) (9/27/2011) Average
Total Iron μg/L 581 430 506
Dissolved Iron μg/L ND ND --
Total Manganese μg/L 1,390 1,710 1,550
Dissolved Manganese μg/L 0.952 1.34 1.15
Specific Conductivity umhos/cm 320 310 315
Chloride mg/L -- 18 --
Nitrate as Nitrogen μg/L -- ND --
Nitrite as Nitrogen μg/L -- ND --
Sodium mg/L -- 30 --
Total Suspend Solids mg/L ND 24 --
pH std 7.4 7.5 7.45
-- Not analyzed. ND – Non detect.
The filter backwash water has much lower dissolved manganese and iron concentrations
than the MCLs. This indicates that the dominant forms of manganese and iron in the
filter backwash water are in solid form, whic h is unlikely to migrate into the soil and
impact groundwater.
15. The December 2011 RWD Amendment indicates that the monthly average agronomic
irrigation rate for the LAAs is approximat ely 7,800 gpd from April through October, which
is approximately 91 percent of the monthly average backw ash water production of
8,600 gpd during the same period; the monthly maximum agronomic irrigation rate is
approximately 10,000 gpd. The excess backwash water is diverted to the two storage
ponds for percolation and evaporation. The Disc harger stated that no overflow from the
storage ponds was discharged into the unnamed creek during the summer months in
2011 and that mosquito issues have been resolved.
16. The surface soils in the LAAs were anal yzed to determine fertilizer requirements for
landscaping. Analytical results are tabulated below.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023 5
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION AMADOR COUNTY


Constituent Unit Surface Soil
pH Std 6.5
Sodium mg/Kg 16
Manganese mg/Kg 19
Iron mg/Kg 19
Nitrate as N mg/Kg 48
Phosphorus mg/Kg 25
The LAAs contain turf, shrubs and trees. Ba sed on the soil nutrient levels, the estimated
annual demand for fertilizers are 24 pounds of nitrogen, 44 pounds of phosphate and
6.6 pounds of sulfur. There is no need for iron and manganese supplementation.
Site-Specific Conditions
17. The distance between the LAAs and the Camanche Reservoi r shoreline fluctuates with
the elevation of the reservoi r water level; the distance is approximately 500 feet based on
the nominal reservoir level of 220 feet abov e mean sea level (AMSL); the distance is
approximately 1,100 feet in re cent drought years when the water level dropped to
190 feet AMSL. The elevation of the irrigation area is approximately 240 feet AMSL.
18. The LAAs are protected fr om the 100-year flood by contro lling the upstream inflow at
Pardee Dam and the downstream ou tflow at Camanche Dam.
19. The LAAs are generally level with a slope of 2 percent towa rds west and south. Typical
subsurface soils to a maximum depth of 17 feet bgs contained sands with gravel, sand,
silty sand, and sandy silts, which are related to weathered sandstone and siltstone
bedrock from nearby outcrops. The estimated percolation rate is 0.2 to 0.6 inches per
hour.
20. The average annual precipitation near the fac ility is approximately 17.5 inches and the
100-year precipitation is 31.1 inches.
21. The reference evapotranspiration rate for the area is approx imately 62.8 inches per year.
Groundwater Considerations
22. There are no groundwater monitoring wells at the LAA discharge site. However, there are
two upgradient background monitoring wells MW -2 and MW-3 installed at the Camanche
North Shore Wastewater Treatment Plant, wh ich are located 2,500 feet north of the
playground, and there is one dow ngradient well at the mari na approximately 4,000 feet
located laterally and east of the site and on t he shoreline of the Camanche Reservoir, as
shown on Attachment B.
23. Groundwater elevation data for the three wells indicate that the groundwater flows south
below the LAAs towards the reservoir. Wells MW-2 and MW-3 have depths to groundwater from 5 to 22 feet bg s. The groundwater at the LAAs is estimated to be as
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023 6
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION AMADOR COUNTY


deep as 25 feet bgs based on the site topography and known shallow groundwater
elevations.
24. Background groundwater qua lity has been characterized by quarterly sampling of
monitoring wells MW-2 and MW-3. A summary of average concentrations from
October 2003 through May 2011 is presented in the table below.
Constituent MW-2 MW-3
pH (Std.) 6.9 6.9
Nitrate as N (mg/L) 11.1 4.0
TDS (mg/L) 290 376
Chloride (mg/L) 8.3 40
Sodium (mg/L) 15.7 46
Total Iron ( μg/L) 7,052 4,730
Total Manganese (μ g/L) 329 78
Average iron concentrations in shallow bac kground monitoring wells MW-2 and MW-3
are much greater than the se condary MCL and the iron concentration in the raw water
supply. Additionally, the manganese concen trations in the two background monitoring
wells are greater than the pr imary MCL. Compared to s hallow groundwater iron and
manganese concentrations, the filter ba ckwash water has much lower average
concentrations (non-detect for dissolved iron and 1.15 μg/L in dissolved manganese) and
will not degrade the groundw ater. Therefore, groundwater monitoring is not necessary.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
25. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacr amento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fourth Edition , (hereafter “Basin Plan”) designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies fo r protecting waters of the
basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the State Board.
Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(a), wa ste discharge requirements must implement
the Basin Plan.
26. Surface water drainage is to the Camanche Re servoir. The beneficial uses of Camanche
Reservoir are municipal and domestic supply; agricultural supply; water contact recreation; non-contact water recreation; warm freshwater habitat; cold freshwater
habitat; warm water migration of aquatic or ganisms; warm and cold water spawning
reproduction and/or early devel opment; and wildlife habitat.
27. The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater are municipal and domestic water supply,
agricultural supply, industrial service supply, and industrial process supply.
28. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents,
tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater. It also sets forth a numeric objective for
total coliform organisms.
29. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objective for chemical constituents, at a
minimum, requires waters designated as domesti c or municipal supply to meet the MCLs
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023 7
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION AMADOR COUNTY


specified in Title 22. The Basin Plan recogni zes that the Central Valley Water Board may
apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical
constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.
30. In summary, the narrative toxicity objecti ve requires that groundwater be maintained free
of toxic substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in
human, animal, plant, or aquatic life asso ciated with designated beneficial uses.
Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site -specific evaluation of those
constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses.
31. The Basin Plan‘s numeric water quality objective for bact eria requires that the most
probable number (“MPN”) of coliform organisms over any seven-day period shall be less
than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater. The applicability of this objective to
groundwater designated as MUN has been affirm ed by State Water Bo ard Order
WQO-2003-0014 and by subsequent dec isions of the Sacrament o County Superior Court
and California Court of Appeal, 3rd Appellate District.
Antidegradation Analysis
32. State Water Board Resolution 68-16 (“Poli cy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality
Waters of the State”) (herea fter “Resolution 68-16”) prohib its degradation of groundwater
unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation is consist ent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State;
b. The degradation will not unreasonably a ffect present and anticipated future
beneficial uses;
c. The degradation does not result in wate r quality less than that prescribed in state
and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives; and
d. The Discharger employs best practicabl e treatment or control to minimize
degradation.
33. In August 2010, the Discharger submitted an Antidegradation Analysis Report.
The report states that the backwash water reuse will increase public beneficial uses,
visual qualities, and recreation values of t he LAAs, reduce the potential for the mosquito
issues in the creek during the warm months, and eliminate the overflow into the unnamed
creek and Camanche Reservoir in summer. The report also provides a manganese
loading rate based on a sample collected di rectly from the filters in March 2010.
However, the calculation using a total manganese concentration in stead of a dissolved
concentration overstates the actual loading to the LAAs, because the solids in the filter
backwash water are settled in the irrigation system settling tanks. In addition, an underestimated irrigation rate, which is less than half of the updated average rate, was used in the calculation.
34. Because most of the manganes e in the waste is insoluble, the manganese loading rate
was recalculated based on the average dissol ved manganese concentration of 1.15 μg/L.
The calculation result show s that approximately 1.6×10
-2 pounds of dissolved manganese
will be applied to the LAAs each year. The RWD includes plant absorption rates for manganese, which are 0.5 to 2 pounds per acre for typical soil and 2 to 8 pounds per
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023 8
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION AMADOR COUNTY


acre for severely deficient soil each year. T hus the irrigation will not significantly impact
the soil. In addition, aeration and/or mixing (e .g. via spray irrigation) would result in
further precipitation of iron and manganese by oxidation, thereby minimizing manganese
and iron migration into the groundwater.
35. The limited groundwater degradation that may occur after effective source control and
treatment is consistent with maximum benefit to the people of Californi a, provided that the
degradation does not impair any ex isting beneficial uses or cause any violations of
applicable water quality objectives. Municipa l water service is made possible by the
operation of the WTP, and municipal water service present s advantages over reliance on
numerous domestic water wells. These adv antages include: energy savings, higher-
quality water, and greater reliability. Degr adation of groundwater by waste constituents
not specified in the groundwat er limitations in this Order, and degradation by waste
constituents that can be effectively removed by conventional treatment (e.g., total coliform
bacteria) is prohibited.
36. Constituents of concern that have the potential to degrade ground water include salts
(primarily TDS) and nutri ents, as discussed below:
a. Compared to the background groundwater TDS concentrations of 376 mg/L and
290 mg/L in MW-2 and MW-3, respectively , the TDS concentration in the backwash
water is approximately 221 mg/L calculated using a ratio 1:0.7 of specific conductivity to
TDS, indicating that the Discharger’s cu rrent treatment and control practices are
effective. Therefore, the discharge is not likely to degrade groundwater quality due to
increased salinity, and a TDS

===PLANNED CHANGES===

