existing facility is exempt from the provisions of the California Environmental Quality (CEQA), in accordance with the California Code of Regulations, t itle 14, s ection 15301.
58. A Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) was certified by the City of Hughson on 13 August 2007 in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA )(Pub.
Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.) . The FEIR describes the project as the expansion,
construction, and operation of the new wastewater treatment facility through the year
2025, as proposed by the Wastewater Treatment Plant Master Plan Report (Master Plan).
The Master Plan included the following construction projects :
a. Constructing new headworks, including coarse and fine screens, a Parshall flume, and biofilters for odor control.
b. Constructing two new concrete oxidation ditches and two 70- foot diameter secondary
clarifiers.
c. Constructing indoor gravity belt filter presses for sludge dewatering.
d. Constructing three new rapid infiltration disposal ponds.
e. Replaci ng the Hatch Road influent pump station and associated force main with a new
36-inch gravity sewer extending from Hatch Road to the new influent pump station near
the headworks. The gravity sewer will utilize the same route as the existing force main.
f. Abandoning the four lower ponds (Ponds 7 through 10) and potentially converting them
to storm water basins, and;
g. Rehabilitating Ponds 5 and 6.
The first phase of the project, which has been completed, did not include construction of the coarse screens; constr uction of the second concrete oxidation ditch; replacement of
the Hatch Road pump station with a gravity line and new influent pump station;
rehabilitation of Pond 5 and 6; or construction of the third rapid infiltration disposal pond.
59. The EIR evaluated t he potential impacts to groundwater quality and found that compliance
with the new WDRs will ensure that impacts to water quality would be less than significant.
60. Compliance with these waste discharge requirements will mitigate or avoid significant impacts to water quality.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0003
CITY OF HUGHSON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
STANISLAUS COUNTY

 13
T
E
N
T
A
T
I
V
E 61. Water Code s ection 13267(b) states :
In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require that any
person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to
discharge within its region … shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring
program reports which the board requires. The burden, including costs of these reports, shall
bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the
reports. In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written
explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports
requiring that person to provide the reports .
The technical reports required by this Order and the attached Monitoring and Reporting
Program R5 -2012- 0003 are necessary to ensure compliance with these waste discharge
requirements. The Discharger owns and operates the facility that discharges the waste
subject to this Order.
62. Based on the threat and complexity of the discharge, the facility is determined to be classified as 2-B as defined below:
a. Category 2 threat to water quality, defined as, “Those discharges of waste that could
impair the designated beneficial uses of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

