Facility Information:
1. The names , certificate grades, and general r esponsibilities of all persons in charge of
wastewater treatment, handling , and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter s and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations
(Standard Provision C.4).
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan,
salinity management plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently
constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed
for adequacy.
5. A summary of any changes in processing that might affect waste characterization
and/or disch arge flow rates.
6. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years.
7. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall discuss the corrective actions taken and the
plan to bring the discharge back into compliance with Order R5- 2018 -0028.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5 -2018 -0028 -7-
RIVERDALE PUBLIC UTILIT Y DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Source Water Reporting
1. For each annual period, the results of the source water monitoring speci fied on
page 3. Results must include supporting calculations.

Solids Reporting
1. Annual production of totals solids (excluding trash and recyclables) in dry tons or cubic
yards.
2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the
disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage
disposed of by each method.
a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order
number of WDRs that regulate it .
b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs th at regulate it.
d. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of
ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).

The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.



Ordered by: Original signed by
 PAMELA C. CREEDON , Executive Officer
 4/5/2018
 (Date)
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5 -2018 -0028 -8-
RIVERDALE PUBLIC UTILIT Y DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Unless otherwise specified or approved, s amples shall be a flow -proportioned
composite consistin g of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected every day .
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at leas t twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be coll ected at least twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per year)
during non- consecutive mont hs
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April, July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per year).
Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in April and
October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year . Unless otherwise specified or
approved, samples shall be collected in October .
mg/L Milligram s per liter
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
µg/L Micrograms per liter
µmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of cation/anion
balance.
INFORMATION SHEET

INFORMATION SHEET - ORDER NO. R5 -2018 -0028
RIVERDALE PUD
WASTE WATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

Background
The Riverdale Public Utility District (District or Discharger) submitted a Report of W aste
Discharge (RWD), proposing the expansion of the existing Riverdale wastewater treatment
facility (WWTF). The WWTF is about a mile north of the community of Riverdale.

The current discharge from the WWTF is regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) Order 85 -252 that allows a discharge of up to 0.25 million gallons per day ( mgd) of
domestic wastewater. The WWTF is currently discharging an average of about 0.21 mgd or
about 88 percent of the design treatment capacity. The RWD estimates growth over the next
20 years and proposes increasing the treatment capacity in two phases. The first phase would
increase the treatment and disposal capacity to 0.275 mgd and the second phase would
increase the treatment and disposal capacity to 0.325 mgd and would be completed in about
ten years.

Wastewater Generation and Disposal

The existing WWTF is an aerated lagoon system designed to remove biochemical oxygen
(BOD ) and total suspended solids ( TSS) . Raw wastewater or influent enters at the headworks
where it passes through a comminutor, prior to being discharged to an unlined complete- mix
aerated lagoon. The effluent is then discharged to one of six unlined oxidation lagoons, where
the effluent percolates into the underlying soil/substrate, evaporates , or is discharged to o pen
land north of the WWTF.

The new treatment system will consist of three, lined aeration ponds. From the treatment
ponds, effluent will be discharged to a series of new disposal (evaporation/percolation) ponds
installed in two phases. Some of the existing treatment ponds will b e converted to disposal
(evaporation/percolation) ponds. The new evaporation/percolation ponds proposed for the site
will occupy the area of the current land application area.

Groundwater Considerations

Groundwater in the area of the Riverdale WWTF is contained in two primary aquifers. An
unconfined aquifer is present above the E -Clay or Corcoran Clay , which is reported to be at
about 450 feet below the ground surface (bgs) beneath the WWTF and is about 80 to 100 feet
thick. Below the E -Clay, the aquifer is co nfined. Historically, the Van Ness Slough flowed
across the WWTF property from east to west. The presence of a slough in the area indic ates
perched waters may be present as well.

The exact depth to first encountered groundwater beneath the WWTF is unknown, but some
regional information is available. Depth to g roundwater is addressed in the Antidegradation
Report that indicates the depth to water has dropped 100 feet since 2010 and is at about
240 feet bgs. The District indicates they just installed a new supply well and groundwater was
INFORMATION SHEET, ORDER NO. R5 -2018 -0028 2
RIVERDALE PUD WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY


encountered at a depth of 240 feet bgs. T he Department of Water Resources has
groundwater information (Tulare Lake Groundwater Basin, Spring 2010, Lines of Equal Depth
to Water in Wells, Unconfined Aquifer ) and the general direction of groundwater flow was to
the west/southwest and the depth to water in the s pring of 2010 is shown as being about
170 feet bgs.

Additional Regulatory Considerations

The Tulare Lake Basin Plan states that the evaporation of reclaimable wastewater is not an
acceptable permanent disposal method where the opportunity exists to replace an existing use
of proposed use of fresh water with reclaimed water. To that end, t he Dis trict circulated a
29 November 2016 letter to adjacent property owners that grow alfalfa, hay, or fodder crops
within a mile of the WWTF to evaluate possible interest in using undisinfected secondary
treated wastewater for recycling. One property owner responded that they were interested in
using the wastewater , but wanted to use District land as well as the wastewater due to the
elevated EC of the wastewater. The WWTF has a long history of standing water i n the existing
land application area, which created nuisance conditions (mosquitoes). To eliminate the
standing water issues associated with the recycling of wastewater to the land application area,
the upgraded WWTF will utilize evaporation/ percolation ponds for disposal.

Legal Effect of Rescission of Prior WDRs or Orders on Existing Violations

The Board’s rescission of prior waste discharge requirements and/or monitoring and reporting
orders does not extinguish any violations that may have occurred during the time those waste
discharge requirements or orders were in effect. The Central Valley Water Board reserves the
right to take enforcement actions to address violations of prior prohibitions, limitations,
specifications, requirements, or provisions of rescinded waste discharge requirements or
orders as allowed by law.

Reopener

The conditions of discharge in the proposed Order were developed based on currently
available technical information and applicable water quality laws, regulations, policies , and
plans, and are intended to assure conformance with them. The proposed Order would set
limitations based on the information provided thus far. If applicable laws and regulations
change, or once new information is obtained that will change the overal l discharge and its
potential to impact groundwater, it may be appropriate to reopen the Order.
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATE R QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

STANDARD PROVISIONS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS

1 March 1991

A. General Provisions:

1. The requirements prescribed herein do not author ize the commission of any act causing injury to
the property of another, or protec t the Discharger from liabilities under federal, state, or local
laws. This Order does not convey any pr operty rights or exclusive privileges.
 2. The provisions of this Order are severable. If any provision of this Or der is held invalid, the
remainder of this Order shall not be affected.
 3. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this Order may be terminated or modified for cause,
including, but not limited to: a. Violation of any term or c ondition contained in this Order;
 b. Obtaining this Order by misrepre sentation, or failure to disclo se fully all relevant facts;

c. A change in any condition that results in either a temporary or permanent need to reduce or
eliminate the authorized discharge;
 d. A material change in the character, location, or volume of discharge.
 4. Before making a material change in the char acter, location, or volum e of discharge, the
discharger shall file a new Report of Waste Di scharge with the Regiona l Board. A material
change includes, but is not limited to, the following: a. An increase in area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond that specified in
waste discharge requirements.
 b. A significant change in disposal method, locatio n or volume, e.g., change from land disposal
to land treatment.
 c. The addition of a major industrial, muni cipal or domestic wast e discharge facility.
 d. The addition of a major industrial waste disc harge to a discharge of essentially domestic
sewage, or the addition of a ne w process or product by an indus trial facility resulting in a
change in the character of the waste.

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -2-
Waste Discharge to Land


5. Except for material determined to be confid ential in accordance with California law and
regulations, all reports prepared in accordance with terms of this Order shall be available for
public inspection at the offices of the Board. Data on waste discharges, water quality, geology,
and hydrogeology shall not be considered confidential.
 6. The discharger shall take all r easonable steps to minimize any adve rse impact to the waters of the
state resulting from noncom pliance with this Order. Such steps shall include accelerated or
additional monitoring as necessary to determine the nature and impact of the noncompliance.
 7. The discharger shall maintain in good working order and operate as effi ciently as possible any
facility, control system, or monitoring device installed to achieve compliance with the waste
discharge requirements.
8. The discharger shall permit repr esentatives of the Regional Board (hereafter Board) and the State
Water Resources Control Board, upon presentations of credentials, to:
 a. Enter premises where wastes are treated, stor ed, or disposed of and facilities in which any
records are kept,
 b. Copy any records required to be kept under terms and conditions of this Order,
 c. Inspect at reasonable hours, monitoring equipment required by this Order, and
 d. Sample, photograph and video tape any discha rge, waste, waste management unit, or
monitoring device.

9. For any electrically operated equipment at the site, the failure of which would cause loss of
control or containment of waste materials, or viol ation of this Order, the discharger shall employ
safeguards to prevent loss of control over wastes . Such safeguards may include alternate power
sources, standby generators, re tention capacity, operating pr ocedures, or other means.
 10. The fact that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in Order to
maintain compliance with this Order shall not be a defense for the discharger’s violations of the
Order.
 11. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall create a condition of nuisance or pollution as
defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
 12. The discharge shall remain within the designated dis posal area at all times.

B. General Reporting Requirements:

1. In the event the discharger does not comply or will be unable to comply with any prohibition or
limitation of this Order for any reason, the disc harger shall notify the Board by telephone at
(916) 464-3291 [Note: Current phone numbers for all three Regional Board offices may be
found on the internet at http:// www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5/contact_us.] as soon as it or its agents
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -3-
Waste Discharge to Land


have knowledge of such noncompliance or potentia l for noncompliance, a nd shall confirm this
notification in writing within two weeks . The written notification shall state the nature, time and
cause of noncompliance, and shall incl ude a timetable for corrective actions.

2. The discharger shall have a plan for preven ting and controlling accidental discharges, and for
minimizing the effect of such events. This plan shall: a. Identify the possible sources of accidenta l loss or leakage of wastes from each waste
management, treatment, or disposal facility.
 b. Evaluate the effectiveness of present waste management/treatment units and operational
procedures, and identify needed changes of contingency plans.

c. Predict the effectiveness of the proposed changes in waste management/treatment facilities
and procedures and provide an implementati on schedule containing interim and final dates
when changes will be implemented.
 The Board, after review of the plan, may establis h conditions that it deems necessary to control
leakages and minimize their effects.
3. All reports shall be signed by persons identified below:
 a. For a corporation
: by a principal executive officer of at least the level of senior
vice-president.
 b. For a partnership or sole proprietorship
: by a general partner or the proprietor.
 c. For a municipality, state, federal or other public agency
: by either a principal executive
officer or ranking elected or appointed official.
 d. A duly authorized representative of a person designated in 3a, 3b or 3c of this requirement if;

(1) the authorization is made in writing by a person described in 3a , 3b or 3c of this
provision;
(2) the authorization specifies either an individual or a posit ion having responsibility for the
overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the position of plant
manager, operator of a waste management unit, superintendent, or position of equivalent
responsibility. (A duly authorized representa tive may thus be eith er a named individual
or any individual occupying a named position); and
(3) the written authorizati on is submitted to the Board

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -4-
Waste Discharge to Land


Any person signing a document under this Sec tion shall make the following certification:
 “I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the
information submitted in this document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of the those individuals immedi ately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe
that the information is true, accurate, and comp lete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment.”
4. Technical and monitoring reports specified in th is Order are requested pursuant to Section 13267
of the Water Code. Failing to furnish the re ports by the specified d eadlines and falsifying
information in the reports, are misdemeanors that may result in assessment of civil liabilities
against the discharger.

5. The discharger shall mail a copy of each monitori ng report and any other reports required by this
Order to:

California Regional Water Quality Control Board Central Valley Region 11020 Sun Center Drive, #200 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670-6114
Note: Current addresses for all three Regional Board offices may be found on the internet
at http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5/contact_us.
or the current address if the office relocates.

C. Provisions for Monitoring:

1. All analyses shall be made in accord ance with the latest edition of: (1) Methods for Organic
Chemical Analysis of Munici pal and Industria l Wastewater (EPA 600 Series) and (2) Test
Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste (SW 846-latest edition). The test method may be modified
subject to application and appr oval of alternate test procedures under the Code of Federal
Regulations (40 CFR 136).
 2. Chemical, bacteriological, and bioassay analysis shall be conducted at a laboratory certified for
such analyses by the State Department of Health Se rvices. In the event a certified laboratory is
not available to the discharger, analyses performed by a noncertifi ed laboratory will be accepted
provided a Quality Assurance-Quality Control Progr am is instituted by the laboratory. A manual
containing the steps followed in this program mu st be kept in the laboratory and shall be
available for inspection by Board staff. The Quality Assurance-Quality Control Program must
conform to EPA guidelines or to procedures approved by the Board.
 Unless otherwise specified, all metals shall be reported as Total Metals.
 3. The discharger shall retain re cords of all monitoring informa tion, including all calibration and
maintenance records, all or iginal strip chart recordi ngs of continuous monitoring
instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this Order, and records of all data used to
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -5-
Waste Discharge to Land


complete the application for this Order. Reco rds shall be maintained for a minimum of three
years from the date of the sample, measurement, report, or application. This period may be
extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regard ing this discharge or when
requested by the Regional Board Executive Officer. Record of monitoring in formation shall include:
 a. the date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements, b. the individual(s) who performed the sampling of the measurements,
c. the date(s) analyses were performed, d. the individual(s) who performed the analyses, e. the laboratory which performed the analysis, f. the analytical techni ques or methods used, and
g. the results of such analyses.

4. All monitoring instruments and devices used by the discharger to fulfill the prescribed
monitoring program shall be properly maintained a nd calibrated at least yearly to ensure their
continued accuracy.
 5. The discharger shall maintain a written sampli ng program sufficient to assure compliance with
the terms of this Order. A nyone performing sampling on behalf of the discharger shall be
familiar with the sampling plan.
 6. The discharger shall construct all monitoring well s to meet or exceed the standards stated in the
State Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81 and subsequent revisions, and shall comply
with the reporting provisions for wells re quired by Water Code S ections 13750 through 13755.22

D. Standard Conditions for Facilities Subject to California Code of Regulations, Title 23,
Division3, Chapter 15 (Chapter 15)

1. All classified waste management units shall be designed under the di rect supervision of a
California registered civil engine er or a California certified engi neering geologist. Designs shall
include a Construction Quality Assuran ce Plan, the purpose of which is to:

a. demonstrate that the waste management unit has been constructed according to the
specifications and plans as approved by the Board.
 b. provide quality control on the materials and construction practices us ed to construct the
waste management unit and prevent the use of inferior products and/or materials which do
not meet the approved design plans or specifications.

2. Prior to the discharge of waste to any classified waste manageme nt unit, a California registered
civil engineer or a California certified engineering geologist must certify that the waste
management unit meets the construction or prescriptive standards and performance goals in Chapter 15, unless an engineered a lternative has been approved by th e Board. In the case of an
engineered alternative, the regi stered civil engineer or a certif ied engineering geologist must
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -6-
Waste Discharge to Land


certify that the waste management unit has been constructed in accordance with Board-approved
plans and specifications.
 3. Materials used to construct li ners shall have appropriate physi cal and chemical properties to
ensure containment of discharged wastes ove r the operating life, closure, and post-closure
maintenance period of the waste management units.
 4. Closure of each waste management unit shall be performed under the direct supervision of a
California registered civil e ngineer or a California certi fied engineering geologist.

E. Conditions Applicable to Discharge Faciliti es Exempted from Chapter 15 Under Section 2511

1. If the discharger’s wastewater treatment plan t is publicly owned or regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission, it shall be supervised and operated by persons posse ssing certificates of
appropriate grade according to California Code of Regulations, Title 23, Division 4, Chapter 14.
 2. By-pass (the intentional divers ion of waste streams from any portion of a treatment facility,
except diversions designed to meet variable effl uent limits) is prohibited. The Board may take
enforcement action against the discharger for by-pass unless:

a. (1) By-pass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property
 damage. (Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property,
 damage to the treatment facilities that cause s them to become inoperable, or substantial
 and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to occur in the
 absence of a by-pass. Severe property da mage does not mean economic loss caused by
 delays in production); and


(2) There were no feasible alternatives to by- pass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment
facilities or retention of untreated waste. This condition is not satisfied if adequate
back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering
judgment to prevent a by-pass that would otherwise occur during normal periods of
equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; or


b. (1) by-pass is required fo r essential maintenance to assure efficient operation; and

(2) neither effluent nor receivi ng water limitations are exceeded; and
 (3) the discharger notifies th e Board ten days in advance.

The permittee shall submit notice of an unanticip ated by-pass as required in paragraph B.1.
above.
 3. A discharger that wishes to es tablish the affirmative defense of an upset (see definition in E.6
below) in an action brought for noncomplian ce shall demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs , or other evidence, that:
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -7-
Waste Discharge to Land


 a. an upset occurred and the cause(s) can be identified; b. the permitted facility was being properly operated at the time of the upset; c. the discharger submitted notice of the ups et as required in paragraph B.1. above; and
 d. the discharger complied with any remedi al measures required by waste discharge
requirements.
 In any enforcement proceeding, the discharger s eeking to establish the occurrence of an upset
has the burden of proof.
 4. A discharger whose waste flow has been increas ing, or is projected to increase, shall estimate
when flows will reach hydraulic and treatmen t capacities of its treat ment, collection, and
disposal facilities. The projections shall be made in January, based on the last three years’
average dry weather flows, peak wet weather flows and total annual flows, as appropriate. When
any projection shows that capacity of any part of th e facilities may be exceeded in four years, the
discharger shall notify the Board by 31 January .
 5. Effluent samples shall be taken downstream of the last addition of wastes to the treatment or
discharge works where a representative sample ma y be obtained prior to disposal. Samples shall
be collected at such a point and in such a ma nner to ensure a representative sample of the
discharge.
 6. Definitions
a. Upset means an exceptional incident in which there is uninte ntional and temporary
noncompliance with