Facility description in section II.A.2 of  the Fact 
Sheet where some BNR effluent does not receive filtration, a study of 
November – April performance of the filtration and disinfection system will 
be required of the Discharger. The study, to be conducted at a time 
determined by the Central Valley  Water Board, will summarize data 
including the amount (on a daily basis and annual basis) of effluent that 
did not receive filtration, influent and effluent flows, filter effluent turbidity, 
filter loading rates, effluent Giardia  and Cryptosporidium  data,  and effluent 
E. coli  and total coliform data.  
3. Best Management Practices and Pollution Prevention  
a. Salinity Evaluation and Minimization Plan.  An evaluation and 
minimization plan for salinity is required to be maintained in this Order to 
ensure adequat e measures are developed and implemented by the 
Discharger to reduce the discharge of salinity to the Sacramento River.  
4. Construction, Operation, and Maintenance Specifications  
a. Filtration System Operating Specifications. Turbidity is included as an 
operational specification as an indicator of the effectiveness of the 
filtration system for providing adequate disinfection. Section VI.C. 6.a 
requires the wastewater is oxidized, filtered, and adequately disinfected 
pursuant to Title 22, or equivalent , seaso nally from 1 May through 3 1 
October . The Discharger submitted an Engineering Report dated July 
2018 prepared pursuant to California Code of Regulations Title 22, section 
60323, which was conditionally accepted by the State Water Board 
Division of Drinking Water (DDW) per the conditional acceptance letter 
dated 5 October 2018.  The conditionally accepted Title 22 Engineering 
Report allows use of free chlorine disinfection and high filter loading rates 
that are not consistent with Title  22.  Effective 9 May 2 023, to ensure the 
filtration system is operating properly to provide adequate disinfection of 
the wastewater, the  turbidity of the filter effluent measured at Monitoring 
Location FIL -001 shall not exceed the following:  
i. 1.5 NTU as 24 -hour average;  
ii. 2.5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time within a 24 -hour period; and  
iii. 5 NTU, at any time.  
b. Emergency Storage Basin Operating Requirements. The operation 
and maintenance specifications for the ESB’s are necessary to protect the 
beneficial uses of the g roundwater. The specifications included in this 
Order are retained from Order R5 -2016 -0020 -01. In addition, reporting 
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT       ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -01 
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  NPDES NO. CA 0077682  
 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-145 requirements related to use of the ESB’s are required to monitor their use 
and the potential impact on groundwater.  
5. Special Provisions for Publicly -Owned Treatment Works (POTW’s)  
a. Pretreatment Requirements  
i. The federal CWA section 307(b), and federal regulations,  
40 C.F.R. part 403, require POTW’s to develop an acceptable 
industrial pretreatment program. A pretreatment program is requ ired to 
prevent the introduction of pollutants, which will interfere with treatment 
plant operations or sludge disposal and prevent pass through of 
pollutants that exceed water quality objectives, standards or permit 
limitations. Pretreatment requirements are imposed pursuant to  
40 C.F.R. part 403.  
ii. The Discharger has an approved U.S. EPA pretreatment program that 
includes 10 non-categorical significant industrial user and  
26 categorical significant industrial users.  
iii. The Discharger shall implement  and enforce its approved pretreatment 
program, which is an enforceable condition of this Order. If the 
Discharger fails to perform the pretreatment functions, the Central 
Valley Water Board, the State Water Board or U.S. EPA may take 
enforcement actions a gainst the Discharger as authorized by the CWA.  
b. Resource Recovery from Anaerobically Digestible Material (ADM).  
Some POTW’s choose to accept organic material such as food waste, 
fats, oils, and grease into their anaerobic digesters for co -digestion to 
increase production of methane and other biogases for energy production 
and to prevent such materials from being di scharged into the collection 
system, which could cause sanitary sewer overflows. The California 
Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery has proposed an 
exemption from requiring Process Facility/Transfer Station permits where 
this activity is regulat ed under WDR’s or NPDES permits. The proposed 
exemption is restricted to ADM that has been prescreened, slurried, and 
processed/conveyed in a closed system to be co -digested with regular 
POTW sludge. The proposed exemption requires that a POTW develop 
standard operating procedures for the proper handling, processing, 
tracking, and management of the ADM before it is received by the POTW.  
Standard operating procedures are required for POTW’s that accept 
hauled food waste, fats, oil, and grease for injection i nto anaerobic 
digesters. The development and implementation of standard operating 
procedures for management of these materials is intended to allow the 
California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery to exempt 
this activity from separate and redu ndant permitting programs. If the 
POTW does not accept food waste, fats, oil, or grease for resource 
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT       ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -01 
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  NPDES NO. CA 0077682  
 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-146 recovery purposes, it is not required to develop and implement standard 
operating procedures.  
The Discharger currently accepts hauled -in ADM for direct inj ection into its 
anaerobic digester for co -digestion. This Order requires the Discharger to 
implement standard operating procedures. The requirements of the 
standard operating procedures are discussed in section VI.C.5.b of the 
Order.  
6. Other Special Provisions  
a. Seasonal Title 22, or Equivalent, Disinfection Requirements. Effective 9 
May 2023,  from 1 May to 31 October , when discharging to surface water, , 
wastewater shall be oxidized, filtered, and adequately disinfected pursuant 
to Title 22, or equivalent,  requirements  consistent with the conditionally 
accepted Title 22 Engineering Report, in accordance with the compliance 
schedule in section VI.C.7.a.  
7. Compliance Schedules  
In general, an NPDES permit must include final effluent limitations that are 
consistent with CWA section 301 and with 40 C.F.R. section 122.44(d). There 
are exceptions to this general rule. The Compliance Schedule Policy allows 
compliance schedules for new, revised, or newly interpreted water quality 
objectives or criteria , or in accordance with a TMDL. All compliance schedules 
must be as short as possible and may not exceed 10 years from the effective 
date of the adoption, revision, or new interpretation of the applicable water 
quality objective or criterion, unless a TMDL  allows a longer schedule. Where a 
compliance schedule for a final effluent limitation exceeds 1 year, the Order 
must include interim numeric effluent limitations for that constituent or 
parameter, interim requirements and dates toward achieving compliance , and 
compliance reporting within 14 days after each interim date. The Order may 
also include interim requirements to control the pollutant, such as pollutant 
minimization and source control measures.  
In accordance with the Compliance Schedule Policy and 40 C.F.R.  
section 122.47, a discharger who seeks a compliance schedule must 
demonstrate additional time is necessary to implement actions to comply with a 
more stringent permit limitation. The Discharger must provide the following 
documentation as part of the application requirements:  
a. Diligent efforts have been made to quantify pollutant levels in the 
discharge and the sources of the pollutant in the waste stream, and the 
results of those efforts;  
b. Source control efforts are currently underway or compl eted, including 
compliance with any pollution prevention programs that have been 
established;  
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT       ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -01 
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  NPDES NO. CA 0077682  
 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-147 c. A proposed schedule for additional source control measures or waste 
treatment;  
d. Data demonstrating current Facility performance to compare against 
existing p ermit effluent limits, as necessary to determine which is the more 
stringent interim, permit effluent limit to apply if a schedule of compliance 
is granted;  
e. The highest discharge quality that can reasonably be achieved until final 
compliance is attained ; 
f. The proposed compliance schedule is as short as possible, given the type 
of facilities being constructed or programs being implemented, and 
industry experience with the time typically required to construct similar 
facilities or implement similar progr ams; and  
g. Additional information and analyses to be determined by the Regional 
Water Board on a case -by-case basis.  
Based on information submitted with the ROWD, SMR’s, and other 
miscellaneous submittals, it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of t he 
Central Valley Water Board that the Discharger needs time to implement 
actions to comply with the final effluent limitations for BOD 5, methylmercury, 
total coliform organisms, TSS, and chronic WET.  
a. Seasonal Title 22 (or Equivalent) Requirements. The Discharger 
submitted a request, and justification (dated 20 August 2010), for a 
compliance schedule for BOD5 , TSS, and total coliform organisms. This 
Order retains compliance schedules from Orders  
R5-2010 -0114 -04 and Rf -2016 -0020 for the final WQBEL’s for  BOD5 , 
TSS, and total coliform organisms, with compliance required by  
9 May 2023. These final compliance dates we