7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids;
b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow diagram;
and
c. A description of disposal methods, in cluding the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge producti on disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal, include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifi cations of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the fa cilities receiving the sludge.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0100 -10-
CITY OF SAN JOAQUIN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY FRESNO COUNTY
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs t hat regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
8. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.


Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report shall be prepared as a
fourth quarter groundwater monitoring repor t. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring
Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly
groundwater monitoring schedule plus the results of any annually sampled groundwater constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally presented in the quarterly groundwater monito ring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
2. Graphs of the analytical data for all sa mples collected from each monitoring well for
at least five calendar years. Each such graph shall plot over time for a given
monitoring well the concentration of one or mo re waste constituents specified herein
and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs shall be plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in water quality, and shall
plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the prev ious monitoring events for at least the
last five calendar years.

All technical reports required herein must be ov erseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.

All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.


MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0100 -11-
CITY OF SAN JOAQUIN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY FRESNO COUNTY
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any violations during the reporting period and all acti ons taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time sc hedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.

The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.

Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 2 August 2007
 (Date)

ARP/kes
INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER NO. R5-2007-0100 CITY OF SAN JOAQUIN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY FRESNO COUNTY

Background
The City of San Joaquin (Discharger or City) operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility (WWTF) for t he residents and small industry of the City of San Joaquin. The
WWTF has an average daily flow of 0.3 million gallons per day (mgd).

The Discharger submitted a report of wast e discharge (RWD) dated 23 January 2007 in
support of a modification and expansion (hereafter Expansion Project) of the City WWTF. The
existing WWTF provides secondary treatment of the wastewater stream . Treatment includes
screening to remove large solids, aeration, and sedimentation. Effluent is discharged to
13.5 acres of unlined disposal po nds. The Discharger also uses an onsite “borrow pit” as an
emergency effluent storage pond. The emergency storage pond is below grade, and will later
be converted to a disposal pond.

Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. R5-2002-0103, adopted by the Regional Water Board on 7 June 2002, limits the discharge fl ow to 0.252 million gallons per day (mgd).
The WDRs also establish quarterly

===PLANNED CHANGES===

