Existing Facility, Pro posed Facility, and Discharge
7. An existing WWTP is in operation at the site serving the mobile home units. Historically,
the existing WWTP served all of Oakwood Lake Resort, which provided water slides,
campgrounds, and a concert venue. Although the resor t closed in 2005, the mobile homes
are still occupied. The existing wastewater system is operating to treat wastewater from
the mobile homes. Presently, the WWTP is being expanded to provide better treatment for
the wastewater that will be generated in t he future land development.
8. The WWTP is being constructed to treat wastewater from new residential and commercial
developments. The developments will be constructed in phases; initially, the existing flow
from the mobile home park will be treated (approxi mately 15,000 gallons per day (gpd)).
The first phase of development will generate a total of approximately 55,000 gpd of
domestic wastewater. The second phase of development is expected to bring the total
wastewater flow rate to 136,200 gpd. The treatm ent system equipment will be constructed
as part of the Phase I development. Land application areas and recycled water storage
ponds will be constructed in phases.
9. The Dischargers have reported that they intend to connect to the City of Manteca
wastewater collection system when it is available. The RWD reports, based on
conversations with the City of Manteca, treatment capacity should be available in 10 to 15
years.
10. The treatment plant will provide tertiary treatment and disinfection using a sequential ba tch
reactor (SBR) system. The treatment system consists of screening, SBR, flow
equalization, sand filtration, disinfection, effluent pumping, and land application. Sludge
will be digested and stored on -site pending off -site disposal. A treatment system flowchart
is presented in Attachment D, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by
reference. Each of the treatment components is further described below.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 3
11. Wastewater will be delivered to the treatment system from three pump stations; one
located adjacent to the treatment plant site and two located within the housing
developments.
12. Influent wastewater will be screened with a fine mesh self -cleaning gravity screen to
remove larger solids and grit that could damage pumps or interfere with down stream
process equipment. Screenings and grit will be stored in a covered container for disposal
at an off -site location.
13. Wastewater flow rate will be measured with a magnetic flow meter. A totalizer will record
the cumulative flow quantity.
14. Screened w astewater will be treated using an SBR process. The SBR will consist of a
200,000 gallon lined basin that will be aerated and mixed using floating aerators. The
aerators will be cycled on and off to create anoxic conditions to facilitate denitrification.
The SBR is anticipated to perform four cycles per day. Excess sludge will be wasted to
the sludge storage basin.
15. Flow from the SBR will be equalized in a secondary effluent storage basin with a storage
capacity of approximately 49,000 gallons. Wastewat er from the effluent storage basin will
be pumped through sand filters. A polymer (polyaluminum chloride) will be added to the
discharge to increase the efficiency of the sand filters.
16. Duplex sand filters will be used to remove suspended solids in the w astewater that remains
after clarification. Solids removed by the filters will be flushed in backwash water and
returned to the SBR basin.
17. Disinfection will be performed by addition of hypochlorite to the sand filter effluent. Duplex
hypochlorite feed un its will be used for redundancy. The contact chamber will consist of a
24-inch diameter pipe to maximize contact time.
18. Disinfected wastewater will flow by gravity to the effluent storage basin. From the effluent
storage basin the treated wastewater will be pumped to lined recycled water storage
reservoirs.
19. Sludge will discharged to the sludge storage basin for digestion and thickening. Decant
water from the basin will be returned to the SBR pond. Sludge will be hauled off -site for
disposal.
20. An emergency storage reservoir will be available for storage of wastewater during a
malfunction of the treatment plant and when effluent doesn’t meet effluent requirements.
The emergency storage reservoir will provide approximately 233,000 gallons of storage
capacity .
21. The wastewater system includes provisions for component malfunction and primary power
outage. Critical mechanical components have duplex units or available spare parts. The
control system will monitor the status and performance of equipment. An alarm will
automatically dial system operators if a problem is detected by the control system.
22. A 100 -kilowatt standby power generator will be available for use during power failures.
The generator will automatically start in the event of a power outage. The ge nerator will
also power the wastewater lift station adjacent to the treatment plant.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 4
23. Recycled water will be stored in the effluent holding basin after disinfection. During
Phase I, effluent storage will be provided in a 23.97 -acre foot reservoir located in the
northeast corner of Oakwood Lake Water District. The location of the pond is presented
on Attachment C.
24. Treatment ponds located at the treatment facility are described below. Recycled water
storage ponds are described in the “Recycled Water Dis charge” portion of this Order. A
summary of the treatment facility ponds, their size, and their liners is presented in the table
below:
Pond Size Use Liner
SBR Pond 200,000 gallons Wastewater Treatment HDPE 40 mil 1
Secondary Effluent 49,000 gallons Flow Equalization HDPE 40 mil 1
Effluent Storage 330,000 Flow
Equalization/Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
Sludge Storage 178,000 Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil 1
Emergency Storage 233,000 gallons Emergency Storage HDPE 40 mil 1

 1 HDPE 40 -mil denotes High D ensity Polyethylene, or equivalent.

25. Storm water that falls on the treatment plant concrete paved areas will be collected and
directed into the system headworks. Storm water that falls on turf areas at the treatment
plant will infiltrate.
26. Because construc tion of these developments is not complete, no site -specific data on
wastewater quality is available. According to the RWD, the projected wastewater
characteristics are presented below:
Constituent Units Average
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L 220
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 220
Total Nitrogen mg/L 30
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 710 1

1 Total Dissolved Solids estimate is approximately 300 mg/L higher
than the potable water supply (410 mg/L).
27. The Discharger estimates the quality of the effluent will be as described below:
Constituent Units Treatment Plant Effluent
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L Not Provided
Bicarbonate mg/L 240
Calcium mg/L 58
Chloride mg/L 140
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 mL <2.2
Sodium mg/L 148
Total Nitrogen mg/L <10
pH Std. Unit 7.5
Sulfate mg/L 34
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 5
Constituent Units Treatment Plant Effluent
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 710

MPN denotes Most Probable Number.


Recycled Water Discharge
28. Treated recycled water will be stored in lined storage ponds and applied to landscaped
land application areas. All of the pond s and land application areas are within the Oakwood
Lake Water District service area boundary (see Attachment C).
29. Storage ponds will be used to store recycled water when not irrigating; the locations of the
ponds are presented on Attachment C. The table below lists recycled water storage
ponds.
Pond Size Use Liner
Basin No. 1 23.83 ac•ft Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil
Basin No. 2 26.86 ac•ft Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil
Basin No. 3 1.02 ac•ft Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil
Basin No. 4 3.45 ac•ft Recycled Water Storage HDPE 40 mil
Totals 55.16 ac•ft
30. All the ponds will be lined with 40 -mil high -density polyethylene (HDPE) or equivalent to
minimize percolation.
31. Land application areas will be planted with turf grass, shrubs, and trees. Most irrigation will
occur through drip irrigation lines installed approximately one foot below the ground
surface (Geoflow). Some spray irrigation will be used to apply wastewater. The acreage,
development phase, and application method are described in the table below:
Land Application
Area Acreage Dev. Phase Application Type
LAA No. 1 12.5 I Geo-Flow
LAA No. 2 2.16 I Spray
LAA No. 3 1.03 I Geo-Flow
LAA No. 4 0.72 II Geo-Flow
LAA No. 5 4.34 II Geo-Flow
LAA No. 6 0.87 II Spray
LAA No. 7 0.87 II Spray
LAA No. 8 0.12 II Geo-Flow
LAA No. 9 9.14 II Geo-Flow
Total Land Area 31.75
32. Effluent will be applied at plant uptake rates for both nitrogen and water application.
Irrigation tailwater will be controlled through such measures as perimeter berm s and/or
grading the area to prevent off -site drainage.
33. The RWD contains a Phase I water balance that demonstrates hydraulic capacity for a
wastewater flow rate of 55,000 gpd. The Phase I water balance requires 21.1 ac•ft of
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 6
storage capacity and 13.0 acr es of land application area. Basin No. 1 will be constructed
for the first phase of development; Basins Nos. 2, 3, and 4 will be constructed for the
second phase of development.
34. The RWD contains a Phase II water balance that demonstrates hydraulic capacit y for a
wastewater flow rate of 136,200 gpd. The Phase II water balance requires a total of 53.0
ac•ft of storage capacity and 30.0 acres of land application area.
35. Phase II land application areas and recycled water ponds will be developed in the future.
Authorization to use the Phase II land application areas and wastewater ponds must be
obtained from the Executive Officer prior to use.
Wastewater Collection System
36. The wastewater collection system will consist primarily of 6 -inch diameter gasketed
schedule -40 poly vinyl chloride (PVC) pipe. Most of the existing collection system
associated with the previous use as Oakwood Lake Resort will be abandoned. However,
the collection system associated with the existing mobile home park is not planned for
removal. If excessive inflow and infiltration in that area is identified, the RWD states that
portions of the collection system will be replaced as needed to control infiltration and
inflow.
37. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of se wer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the tre atment facility. Temporary storage
and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines,
etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not
considered sanitary sewer overflows, provide d that the waste is fully contained within
these temporary storage/conveyance facilities. Sanitary sewer overflow is also defined in
State Water Board Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ, Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems . The Internet web location for State Water
Board Order No. 2006 -0003 -DWQ is presented on Attachment E, which is attached hereto
and made part of this Order by reference.
38. For the proposed facility, any sanitary sewer overflows would consist of varying mixtures of
domestic and commercial wastewater, depending on land uses in the sewage collection
system. The chief causes of sanitary sewer overflows include grease blockages, root
blockages, debris blockages, sewer line flood damage, manhole structure failures,
vandalism, pump station mechanical failures, power outages, storm or groundwater
inflow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or contractor caused blockages.
39. Sanitary sewer overflows often contain high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic
organisms, toxic p ollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and
grease, and other pollutants. Sanitary sewer overflows can cause temporary exceedances
of applicable water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect
aquatic life, and impair the public recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface
waters in the area.
40. The Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate,
and prevent discharges from its sanitary sewer collection system. This O rder requires the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 7
Discharger to prepare and implement a Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP)
consistent with State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order No.
2006 -0003 -DWQ.
Site-Specific Conditions
41. Annual precipitation in the vicinity avera ges approximately 11.18 inches. The mean
evapotranspiration rate is approximately 53.06 inches per year. All portions of the facility
are outside the 100 -year flood zone. Flood protection is provided by levees maintained by
Reclamation District 17.
42. The facility lies within the San Joaquin Delta Hydrologic Unit Area No. 544.00, as depicted
on interagency hydrologic maps prepared by the Department of Water Resources in
August 1986.
43. Based on the National Resource Conservation Service soil survey, the soils at the
development consist of the Merritt silty clay loam and the Egbert silty clay loam. Published
infiltration rates for the soils range from 0.06 to 2.0 in/hr.
Groundwater Considerations
44. Groundwater currently used for municipal supply is pumped from tw o wells that screen a
confined aquifer that underlies the site. Well No. 1 will be used on a standby basis to
supply non -potable water for use as supplemental irrigation water; Well No. 2 will be
abandoned. Two new wells for potable supply will be constr ucted. The current potable
water supply quality was sampled in 2005 and is summarized below:
Analyte Units Concentration
Bicarbonate mg/L 170
Calcium mg/L 32
Chloride mg/L 110
Magnesium mg/L 6
Nitrate mg/L ND
Sodium mg/L 98
Potassium mg/L 3
Electrical Conductivity μmhos/cm 650
Sulfate mg/L 14
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 410
Total Hardness mg/L 110
45. Depth to groundwater varies depending on location, season, and local influences such as
irrigation practices, groundwater extraction, the presence and stage of surface water
bodies. Historically, the operators of Brown Sand and the Oakwood Lake Resort pumped
lake water into the San Joaquin River to lower lake levels to allow mining and operation of
water slides. The pumping also lowered the surrounding groundwater ele vations. The
pumping has now stopped.
46. The RWD presented available groundwater flow direction information that characterizes
groundwater elevations in the vicinity prior to beginning dewatering activities in 1969.
Maps prepared by the Department of Wate r Resources (DWR) in 1958 and 1962 indicate
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2006 -0114 -001
OAKWOOD LAKE WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

 8
that groundwater flow is to the west at the project area. Groundwater is expected to locally
reverse flow direction when the San Joaquin River elevation is greater than normal.
47. Groundwater models prepared for th e area by Condor Earth Technologies and Kleinfelder
predicted groundwater elevations ranging from 2.8 to 4.3 feet mean sea level (msl) with
groundwater elevations reaching 8 to 10 feet msl in wet years. With a final ground surface
elevation of approximate ly 12 feet msl, the depth to groundwater below the surface is likely
to vary from 2 to 10 feet.
48. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

