Facility description in section II.A.2 of the Fact
Sheet where some BNR effluent does not receive filtration, a study of
November – April performance of the filtration and disinfection system w ill
be required of the Discharger. The study, to be conducted at a time
determined by the Central Valley Water Board, will summarize data
including the amount (on a daily basis and annual basis) of effluent that
did not receive filtration, influent and effluent flows, filter effluent turbidity,
filter loading rates, effluent Giardia  and Cryptosporidium  data, and effluent
E. coli  and total coliform data.
3. Best Management Practices and Pollution Prevention
a. Salinity Evaluation and Minimization Plan.  An evaluation and
minimization plan for salinity is required to be maintained in this Order to
ensure adequate measures are developed and implemented by the
Discharger to reduce the discharge of salinity to the Sacramento River.
4. Construction, Operation, and Maintenance Specifications
a. Filtration System Operating Specifications . Turbidity is included as an
operational specification as an indicator of the effectiveness of the
filtration system for providing adequate disinfection. The tertiary treatment
process is capable of reliably meeting a turbidity limitation of 2 NTU as a
daily average. Failure of the treatment system such that virus removal is
impaired would normally result in increased particles in the effluent, which
result in higher effluent turbidity. Turbidity has a major advantage for
monitoring filter performance, allowing immediate detection of filter failure
and rapid corrective action. The operational specification requires that
turbidity prior to disinfection shall not exceed 2 NTU as a daily average;
5 NTU, more than 5 percent of the time within a 24-hour period, and an
instantaneous maximum of 10 NTU.
b. Emergency Storage Basin Operating Requirements. The operation
and maintenance specifications for the ESB’s are necessary to protect the
beneficial uses of the groundwater. The specifications included in this
Order are retained from Order R5-2016-0020-01. In addition, reporting
requirements related to use of the ESB’s are required to monitor their use
and the potential impact on groundwater.
5. Special Provisions for Publicly-Owned Treatment Works (POTW ’s)
a. Pretreatment Requirements
i.The federal CWA section 307(b), and federal regulations,
40 C.F.R. part 403, require POTW’s  to develop an acceptableSACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT           ORDER R5-2 021-0019  
SA
CRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  NPDES NO. CA0077682 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-145industrial pretreatment program. A pretreatment program is required to 
prevent the introduction of pollutants, which will interfere with treatment 
plant operations or sludge disposal and prevent pass through of 
pollutants that exceed water quality objectives, standards or permit 
limitations. Pretreatment requirements are imposed pursuant to  
40 C.F.R. part 403. 
ii.The Discharger has an approved U.S. EPA pretreatment program that
includes 10 non-categorical significant industrial user and
26
 categorical significant industrial users.
iii.The Discharger shall implement and enforce its approved pretreatment
program, which is an enforceable condition of this Order. If the
Discharger fails to perform the pretreatment functions, the Central
Valley Water Board, the State Water Board or U.S. EPA may take
enforcement actions against the Discharger as authorized by the CWA.
b. Resource Recovery from Anaerobically Digestible Material (ADM).
Some POTW ’s choose to accept organic material such as food waste,
fats, oils, and grease into their anaerobic digesters for co-digestion to
increase production of methane and other biogases for energy production
and to prevent such materials from being discharged into the collection
system, which could cause sanitary sewer overflows. The California
Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery has proposed an
exemption from requiring Process Facility/Transfer Station permits where
this activity is regulated under WDR’s  or NPDES permits. The proposed
exemption is restricted to ADM that has been prescreened, slurried, and
processed/conveyed in a closed system to be co-digested with regular
POTW sludge. The proposed exemption requires that a POTW develop
standard operating procedures for the proper handling, processing,
tracking, and management of the ADM before it is received by the POTW.
Standard operating procedures are required for POTW ’s that accept 
hauled food waste, fats, oil, and grease for injection into anaerobic 
digesters. The development and implementation of standard operating 
procedures for management of these materials is intended to allow the 
California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery to exempt 
this activity from separate and redundant permitting programs. If the 
POTW does not accept food waste, fats, oil, or grease for resource 
recovery purposes, it is not required to develop and implement standard 
operating procedures. 
The Discharger currently accepts hauled-in ADM for direct injection into its 
anaerobic digester for co-digestion. This Order requires the Discharger to 
implement standard operating procedures. The requirements of the 
standard operating procedures are discussed in section VI.C.5.b of the 
Order. SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT           ORDER R5-2 021-0019  
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  NPDES NO. CA0077682 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-1466. Other Special Provisions
a. Seasonal Title 22, or Equivalent, Disinfection Requirements.
Consistent with Order R5- 2016-0020- 01, from May to October,
wastewater shall be oxidized, coagulated, filtered, and adequately
disinfected pursuant to Title 22, or equivalent, requirements in accordance
with the compliance schedule in section VI.C.7.a.
7. Compliance Schedules
In general, an NPDES permit must include final effluent limitations that are 
consistent with CWA section 301 and with 40 C.F.R. section 122.44(d). There 
are exceptions to this general rule. The Compliance Schedule Policy allows 
compliance schedules for new, revised, or newly interpreted water quality 
objectives or criteria, or in accordance with a TMDL. All compliance schedules 
must be as short as possible and may not exceed 10 years from the effective 
date of the adoption, revision, or new interpretation of the applicable water 
quality objective or criterion, unless a TMDL allows a longer schedule. Where a 
compliance schedule for a final effluent limitation exceeds 1 year, the Order 
must include interim numeric effluent limitations for that constituent or 
parameter, interim requirements and dates toward achieving compliance, and 
compliance reporting within 14 days after each interim date. The Order may 
also include interim requirements to control the pollutant, such as pollutant 
minimization and source control measures. 
In accordance with the Compliance Schedule Policy and  
40 C.F.R. section 122.47, a discharger who seeks a compliance schedule must 
demonstrate additional time is necessary to implement actions to comply with a 
more stringent permit limitation. The Discharger must provide the following 
documentation as part of the application requirements: 
a. Diligent efforts have been made to quantify pollutant levels in the
discharge and the sources of the pollutant in the waste stream, and the
results of those efforts;
b. Source control efforts are currently underway or completed, including
compliance with any pollution prevention programs that have been
established;
c. A proposed schedule for additional source control measures or waste
treatment;
d. Data demonstrating current Facility performance to compare against
existing permit effluent limits, as necessary to determine which is the more
stringent interim, permit effluent limit to apply if a schedule of compliance
is granted;SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT           ORDER R5-2 021-0019  
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  NPDES NO. CA0077682 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-147e. The highest discharge quality that can reasonably be achieved until final
compliance is attained;
f. The proposed compliance schedule is as short as possible, given the type
of facilities being constructed or programs being implemented, and
industry experience with the time typically required to construct similar
facilities or implement similar programs; and
g. Additional information and analyses to be determined by the Regional
Water Board on a case- by-case basis.
Based on information submitted with the RO WD, SMR’s, and other 
miscellaneous submittals, it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
Central Valley Water Board that the Discharger needs time to implement 
actions to comply with the final effluent limitations for BOD 5, methylmercury, 
total coliform organisms, TSS, and chronic WET. 
a. Seasonal Title 22 (or Equivalent) Requirements . The Discharger
submitted a request, and justification (dated 20 August 2010), for a
compliance schedule for BOD5, TSS, and total coliform organisms. This
Order retains compliance schedules from Orders
R5-2010 -0114- 04 and Rf- 2016-0020 for the final WQBEL’s for B OD5,
TSS, and total coliform organisms, with compliance required by
9 May 2023. These final compliance dates were originally 1 December
2020 but have been stayed by certain orders issued by the Sacramento
County Superior Court, Honorable Michael Kenny. The stays resulted in
change, or shift by a period of time, in the compliance deadlines as well as
in the schedule for certain steps toward compliance. The operative orders
were issued by the Superior Court on 13 July 2012 and 6 May 2013.
b. Methylmercury. The Delta Mercury Control Program is composed of two
phases. Phase 1 is currently underway and continues through the Phase
1 Delta Mercury Control Program Review. Phase 1 emphasizes studies
and pilot projects to dev