COLUSA COUNTY

2 Average daily flow for the months of June through September, which consistently exhibit the lowest
precipitation and influent flows.
3 Typically occurs in January
Comparison of the average dr y weather flows and the peak month flow indicates that
inflow and infiltration (I/I) cont ributes significantly to influent flows during the rainy season.

Additionally, the significant reduction in dry weather flows for the la st two years (which
have been dryer than normal) indicates that in filtration due to high groundwater may be a
year round problem during normal conditions. The RWD states that the Discharger has
performed smoke testing on a por tion of the sewer system and found that most of the
identified I/I problems are associated with building laterals t hat are not part of the public
sewer system. The Discharger has sent repair notices to the affected properties and
plans to do more smoke testing in the future.
 10. The sewer system consists of approximately 4.4 miles of gravity pipeline. The sewer
pipes are principally concrete (approximately 65%), PVC (approximately 23%), and vitrified clay (12%). There are no lift stations upstream of the wastew ater treatment plant.
 11. Wastewater from the ma in sewer is normally routed through a Parshall flume and a
comminuter to the influent wet well, from which it is pumped to the aeration lagoon. After
approximately three days detention in the aeration lagoon, the wastewater flows through
a series of three oxidation ponds to a chlori ne contact basin where sodium hypochlorite
solution is added, and then to a dechlorinati on system prior to discharge to surface
waters. Attachment B, which is attached her eto and made part of this Order by reference,
is a site plan for the treatment plant. When the comminuter is out of service, flows from
the flume are rerouted th rough a bar screen. Likewise, the aerated lagoon can be
bypassed.

12. Design data for the existing treat ment plant ponds are summarized below.

Pond Name Surface Area
(acres) Approximate
Volume
1
(MG) Depth 2
(feet)
Aeration Lagoon 0.22 0.6 10
Oxidation Pond #1 2.15 1.9 3
Oxidation Pond #2 2.15 1.9 3
Oxidation Pond #3 2.15 1.9 3
1 Total volume at two feet freeboard.
2 Design operating depth with two feet of freeboard
 13. The Discharger regularly monitors treated ef fluent for pH, total dissolved solids (TDS),
electrical conductivity (EC), hardness, biochemical oxygen dem and (BOD), total
suspended solids, ammonia nitrogen, and total coliform organisms. Effluent monitoring
data for these parameters for April 2004 th rough April 2007 are summarized below.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0109 4
MAXWELL PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT
MAXWELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
COLUSA COUNTY


Treated Effluent Results

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
 14. As noted above, the Discharger proposes to upgrade the WWTF to improve treatment
reliability and add effluent storage and a water recycling site. Upon completion of the
improvements project, the Disc harger will eliminate the dischar ge to surface waters to
comply with the TSO. The Discharger has secured approval for a $1.7 million grant from the State Water Resources Control Board for this purpose, and additional funding is being
provided by the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Community Assistance
Program in the form of a gr ant and low interest loan.
 15. The improvements project will consist of:
a. Increasing the depth of the existi ng aerated pond (Aeration Pond No.1);
b. Converting Oxidation Pond #I to a se cond aerated pond (Aeration Pond No. 2) with a
deeper fermentation pit;
c. Deepening the Oxidation Ponds #2 and #3 to convert them to facultative lagoons
(Facultative Lagoon Nos. 1 and 2);
d. Constructing an effluent pumping station and pipeline to convey treated effluent to an
effluent storage pond at the water recycling site; and
e. Improving the new water recycling site to provide irrigation and tailwater systems.
A conceptual site plan for the upgraded treatment plant is shown on Attachment C, which
is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
 16. The project plans indicate that an average of 3 feet of sludge will be removed from the
existing oxidation ponds during construction. T he plans require that the contractor decant
free liquids into one of the ponds and dry the sludge either within the ponds or by placing it on a three-acre field south of the existi ng ponds. Once dry to an unspecified degree,
the sludge is to be spread on the field. The RWD did not include a plan to ensure that the
applied sludge will comply wit h the federal biosolids regulations, which include
requirements for pathogen reduction, vector attraction reduction, and contaminant
concentration limits. Additional ly, the RWD did not specify st orm water runoff control, the
rate of application with res pect to nutrients or cropping plans to ensure nitrogen uptake to
prevent degradation of water qualit y. Therefore, it is appr opriate to require that the
Discharger find another means of sludge disposal or obtai n separate WDRs prior to
beginning land application. This is di scussed further in Finding No. 25.
 17. The aerated ponds' increased depth and anti-erosion plates will focus aeration to the
pond surface, allowing solids settling and diges tion in the deeper fermentation pit portion
of Aeration Pond No. 2. The two remaining oxidation ponds will f unction as facultative
lagoons. Construction of t he reconfigured ponds will involve removal of accumulated
sludge, over excavation of t he first two feet of soil, and replacement of that soil at
90 percent relative compaction to form a re duced permeability liner. Design data for the
upgraded treatment ponds is summariz ed in the following table.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0109 6
MAXWELL PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT
MAXWELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
COLUSA COUNTY

Pond Name Surface Area
(acres) Volume 1
(MG) Total Depth 2
(feet) Operating
Depth 3
(feet)
Aeration Pond #1 1.24 3.55 15 13
Aeration Pond #2 2.08 6.09 15 13
Facultative Lagoon #1 2.00 2.83 7 to 11 5
Facultative Lagoon #2 2.00 2.96 7 5
1 Total volume at two feet freeboard.
2 Depth from berm crest to pond bottom.
3 Design operating depth with two feet of freeboard.

The bottom elevation of Aerated Pond No. 1 and the facultative lagoons will remain the
same (approximately, 80, 83.5, and 83 feet NAVD 881, respectively). Aerated Pond No. 2
will be excavated two to eight feet deeper to 80 feet NAVD 88.
 18. The Discharger has been disinfecting treated e ffluent for several year s to comply with its
NPDES permit. Disinfection is not required to comply with the water recycling regulations
set forth in Title 22 of the California Code of R egulations (Title 22) for irrigation of pasture
unless milking animals are allowed to graze on the recycling site. The Discharger does
not wish to allow grazing for milking animals at the water recycling site. The RWD stated
that the Discharger would continue disinfecting the effluent and provide treated effluent that meets the requirements for disinfected secondary-23 recycled water as defined in Title 22. The Discharger subsequently stated it s preference to discontinue disinfection.
However, based on site-specific hydrogeologi c conditions, which are discussed below, it
is appropriate to require that all effluent be disinfected in accordance with the Discharger’s original proposal unless and until it has been demonstrated that disinfection
is not required to protect human health or