FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the Town of Discovery Bay and serves a
population of approximately 16,000 . The design daily average dry weather flow capacity
of the Facility is 2.35 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility includes two plants (Plant 1 and Plant 2). The
Discharger completed construction of Facility upgrades during the last permit term .
With improvements made at Plant 1 and Plant 2 , the majority of Plant 1 is
decommissioned, and Plant 2 is the central treatment facility. The upgraded Facility
is operational as of June 2023 and consists of the following treatment system:
Headworks: The Facility headworks are located at Plant 1 and 2. Plant 1 is
equipped with influent pumps and a mechanical screen and the emergency storage
lagoon; the purpose of Plant 1 is to convey screened influent flow from Plant 1 to
Plant 2. Plant 2 contains additional mechanical screens .
The Emergency Storage Lagoon can be used, if needed, to capture peak flows in
excess of the Facility’s peak design capacity of 2.35 mgd. This flow can be routed
back to the Facility headworks for treatment after peak influent flows decrease. The
Emergency Storage Lagoon is constructed of compacted native soils on the sides
and bottom. Typically, several inches of percolated groundwater is present in the
lagoon, that periodically dries out . The Emergency Storage Lagoon elevations are as
follows:
a) Top of pond: 95.9 feet
b) Bottom of pond: varies between 84.5 feet
Secondary Treatment , Filtration, and Disinfection : The Facility’s secondary
treatment system consist s of three parallel trains of oxidation ditches with anoxic
basins, followed by secondary clarifiers . Secondary effluent is treated using sand
filters and disinfected via ultraviolet light prior to discharge t o Old River via an
upgraded multi -port diffuser .
Solids Treatment: Sludge handling takes place at Plant 2 and consists of an
aerated clay -lined pond (referred to as an aerobic digester), three clay lined sludge
lagoons, three belt filter presses, and four greenhouse solar drying beds. The
Discharger produces Class A biosolids. A monitoring well network of four wells
surrounds the sludge lagoons and aerobic digester to monitoring groundwater
quality.
The aerobic digestor basin elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 93 feet
b) Bottom of pond: 81 feet
The Lagoon 1 elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 92.0 feet
TOWN OF DISCOVERY BAY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2024-0068
DISCOVERY BAY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0078590


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 b) Bottom of pond: varies between 80 feet
The Lagoon 2 elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 92.0 feet
b) Bottom of pond: varies between 80 feet
The Lagoon 3 elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 87 feet
b) Bottom of pond: varies between 82 feet
Biosolids are stored on site in the covered solar drying bed buildings identified in
Attachment C on a concrete floor and are hauled to a local landfill once per year.
The Facility produces approximately 180 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this F acility to surface waters.
TOWN OF DISCOVERY BAY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2024-0068
DISCOVERY BAY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0078590


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8 B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
Division 13 of the Public Resources Code. Additionally, the adoption of land
discharge requirements for the Facility constitutes permitting of an existing facility
that is categorically exempt from the provisions of CEQA pursuant to CCR, title 14, section 15301.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan . Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the applicable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basin Plan. T he Central Valley Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fifth Edition, May 2018 (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan. In
addition, the Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution 88- 63,
which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions,
should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply . Beneficial uses applicable to Old River are as follows:
Table F -3 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point