WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of headworks with mechanical
screening and flow measurement ; a lined Biolac aeration basin with nitrification and
denitrification; two circular secondary clarifiers; a chemical feed facility; a rapid mix
basin; two flocculation basins; two cloth filters; an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection
channel; a reaeration basin; daily and monthly equalization basins; and an
emergency storage basin. After final treatment and disinfection, discharge of water
for recycling is diverted to the reclamation system which consists of a conveyance
pipe to the operational storage basin from which the recycled water is pumped to
various reclamation uses, such as irrigation of City-owned farmland, dust control,
and other irrigation uses. For storage of recycled water to be used for reclamation,
the Facility includes an operational storage basin and a seasonal storage basin.
Sludge is anaerobically digested in HDPE-lined facultative sludge lagoons. A
groundwater leachate collection system is located beneath the lagoons. All collected
leachate is routed back to the headworks. After several years, one of the two basins
is emptied, dewatered, and dried in place. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill for
disposal. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S.
EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503. If suitable, the Discharger plans to use the dried
biosolids on the City-owned farmland.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is currently applying for funding to extend its recycled water system
to be used at the fairgrounds, the CalTrans corporation yard, and the high school for
construction dust control and landscape irrigation. Other recycled water
improvements will include: the addition of redundant disinfection and filtration
systems for improved system reliability, recycled water pump and irrigation
improvements, and associated site improvements (e.g., roads).
III.