existing facility and operation. Accordingly, the
adoption of this Order is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA),
Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq., pursuant to section 15301 of the CEQA
Guidelines (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, 1500 et seq.).
44. The United Sta tes Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CFR part 503 (Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage
Sludge ), which establishes m anagement criteria for protection of ground and surface
waters, sets application rates for heavy metals, and establishes stabilization and
disinfection criteria.
45. The Central Valley Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR part 503 as guidelines
in est ablishing this Order, but the Central Valley Water Board is not the implementing
agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The Discharger may have separate and/or additional
compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to the EPA.
46. Pursuant to Water Cod e section 13263(g) , the continued ability to discharge waste is a
privilege, not a right, and adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to
continue the discharge.
Public Notice
47. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by referen ce herein, were considered in establishing the
following conditions of discharge.
48. The Discharger (s) and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the Central
Valley Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discha rge,
and they have been provided an opportunity to submit written comments and an
opportunity for a public hearing.
49. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public hearing.
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 10
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
REQUIREMENTS
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order 5-01-253 is rescinded except for purposes of
enforcement, and , pursuant to Water Code sections 13263 and 13267, the Westwood CSD , its
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
Water Code and regulations adopt ed hereunder, shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses
is prohibited.
2. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardou s’, as defined in Title 2 2,
section 66262.1 et seq., is prohibited.
3. Treatment system bypass of untreated or partially treated waste is
prohibited, except as allowed by Standard Provision E.2 of the Standard
Provisions and Repo rting Require ments for Waste Discharge
Requirements.
4. Discharge of waste at a location or in a manner different from that
described in the Findings is prohibited.
5. The d ischarge r shall not allow toxic substances to be discharged into the
wastewater treatment system or land application areas such that
biological tr eatment m echanisms are disrupted .
6. The discharge of offsite waste transported to the WWTP (other than that
specified elsewhere in this order) for disposal is prohibited unless approved by
the Executive Officer.
B. Flow Limitations
1. Effectively immediately , influent flows to the WWT P shall not exceed the
following limits:
Flow Measurement Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 122 MG
Average Dry Weather Flow 2 0.333 MGD
1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow for the months of August through October ,
inclusive, divided by 92 days .

C. Discharge Specifications
1. No waste constituent shall be rel eased, discharged, or placed w here it
will cause a violation of the Groundwa ter Limitations of this Order.
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 11
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
2. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal shall not cause pollution or a
nuisance as defined by Water Code section 13050 .
3. The discharge shall remain within the permitted waste treatment/containment
structures and land application areas at all times.
4. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to optimize the quality
of the discharge.
5. All conve yance, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be de signed,
constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent inunda tion or washout due to
floods with a 100 -year return frequency.
6. Public contact with wastewater at the WWTP shall be prevented through
such means as fences, s igns, or acceptable al ternatives.
7. Objectionable odors shall not be perceiva ble beyond the limits of the WWTP
property at a n intensity that creates or th reatens to create nuisance conditions.
8. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification C. 7, the
dissolved oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater
treatment or storage pond shall not be less than 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive
sampling events. If the DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three
consecutive sampling event s, the Discharger shall report the findings to the
Regional Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall include a specific plan
to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.
9. The Dischargers shall design, construct, operate, and maintain all ponds
sufficiently to protect the integrity of containment dams and berms and prevent
overtopping and/or structural failure. The operating freeboard in any pond shall
never be less than two (2) feet (measured vertically from the lowest possible
point of overflow). As a means of management and to discern compliance with
this requirement, the Dischargers shall install and maintain in each pond a
permanent staff gauge with calibration marks that clearly show the water level
at design capacity and enable determination of available operational freeboard.
10. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall have
suffic ient capa city to accommodate allowable wastewater flow, design sea sonal
precipi tation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the winter while ensuring
continuous compliance with all requirements of this Order. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of
100 years, distributed mon thly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
11. On or about 1 October of each year, available capacity shall at least equal the
volume ne cessary to comply with Discharge Specifications C. 9 and C. 10.
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 12
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
12. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent
breeding of mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small
coves and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the
water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through con trol of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the
water surface.
d. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito
Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding as
needed to supplement the abo ve measures.
13. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal berms
that separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall be designed
and constructed under the supe rvision of a California Registered Civil Engineer.
14. Wastewater contained in any unlined pond shall not have a pH less than 6.0 or
greater than 9.0.
15. The Dischargers shall monitor debris accumulation in the wastewater storage
ponds at least every five years and shall periodically remove debris as
necessary to maintain adequate storage capacity. Specifically, if the estimated
volume of debris in the reservoir exceeds five percent of the permitted reservoir
capacity, the Dischargers shall complete debris cleanout within 12 months after
the date of th e estimate.
D. Groundwater Limitations
Release of waste constituents from any portion of the WWTP shall not cause
groundwater to:
1. Exceed a total coliform organism level of 2.2 MPN/100mL over any seven -day
period.
2. Contain constituents in concentrations that e xceed either the Title 22 Primary or
Secondary MCLs .
3. Contain taste or odor -producing constituents, toxic substances, or any other
constituents in concentrations that cause nuisance or adversely affect beneficial
uses.
4. Compliance with these limitations shall be determined annually based on
comparison of groundwater concentrations to applicable WQOs .
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 13
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
E. Solids Disposal Specifications
Sludge, as used in this document, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues
removed du ring primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes.
Solid waste refers to grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment.
Residual sludge means sludge that will not be subject to further treatment at the
WWTP . Biosolids refers to sludge that has been treated and tested and shown to be
capable of being beneficially used as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture,
hortic ulture, and land reclamation activities pursuant t o federal and state regulations .
1. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, ponds, and
clarifiers as needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
2. Any handling and storage of residual sludg e, solid waste, and biosolids at the
WWTP shall be temporary (i.e., no longer than two years) and controlled and
contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation and precludes
infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or concentration that will
violate the groundwater limitations of this Order.
3. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner
approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27, division 2.
Removal for further treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites (i.e., landfills,
WWTP s, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in accordance with
valid waste discharge requirements issued by a Regional Water Board will satisfy
this specification.
4. Use of biosolids as a soil amendme nt shall comply with valid waste discharge
requirements issued by a regional water board or the State Water Board except
in cases where a local (e.g., county) program has been authorized by a regional
water board. In most cases, this will mean the General Biosolids Order (State
Water Resources Control Board Water Quality Order 2004 -12-DWQ, “General
Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as
a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land
Reclamati on Activities”). For a biosolids use project to be covered by Order
2004 -12-DWQ, the Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a
Notice of Applicability for each project.
5. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self -implemen ting federal
regulations of 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 503, which are subj ect to
enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the Central Valley Water Board. If during the
life of this Order, the State accepts primacy for implementation of part 503, the
Centr al Valley Water Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
6. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported in
writing to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 14
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
F. Provisions
1. The following reports shall be submitted pursuant to Water Code section 13267
and shall be prepared as described in Provision Section F.6 of this order :
a. By 1 July 2021, the Discharger shall submit a Water Quality Assessment
Report.
This report shall summarize and evaluate water q uality data collected from
the Facility .
1) For each monitored constituent identified in the MRP the report
shall present a summary of monitoring data and the calculated
concentration s of each constituent from each sampling location.
2) Effluent monitoring data shall be evaluated to assess whether
effluent wastewater concentrations are such that underlying
groundwater could be impacted.
3) The report shall also assess background groundwater quality which
includes a determination of which wells are the background
monitoring well (s) and which well (s) are compliance monitoring
point’s downgradient of the discharge.
4) The report will also provide any recommendations that may be
necessary to address any data gaps in the current monitoring
program. Such as but not limited to the installation of additional
monitoring wells for determination of groundwater gradient and
direction.
b. By 1 September 2019, the Discharger shall submit a Pond Capacity
Evaluation and Maximization Report . This report shall addres s capacity
and freeboard issues for each pond and the pond system as a whole. The
report shall include calculations for percent capacity for each pond and
calculations for the capacity of the entire pond system ( as built , including
2005 berm height additions) and current pond system capacity with in
place bio -solids. The report shal l also include a complete water balance
calculation for the facility.
c. By 1 October 2019 the Discharger shall submit a Bio-Solids Handling and
Disposal Plan. This plan shall address reuse or disposal of current bio -
solids stored or to be stored at the facil ity as of 1 January 20 20. The plan
shall include a detailed outline for sludge removal, drying, and disposal.
The plan shall specifically describe the phasing of the project, measures to
be used to control runoff or percolate from the sludge as it is dryin g, and a
schedule that shows how all dried biosolids will be removed from the
Facility prior to the onset of the rainy season (1 October 2020 ). It will also
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 15
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
outline future handling/ treatment of bio -solids at the facility that will
comply with section E.2 of this order that specifies no more than 2 years of
storage of any bio -solids/sludge removed from the ponds. Additionally, the
Discharger will also be required to provide written notification at least 180
days prior to any new sludge removal and disposal as specified in
Provision F.3.
2. If groundwater monitoring results show that the discharge of waste is causing
groundwater to contain any waste constituents in concentrations statistically
greater than the Groundwater Limitations of this Order , within 120 days of the
request of the Executive Officer, the Discharger shall submit a BPTC Evaluation
Workplan that sets forth the scope and schedul e for a systematic and
comprehensive technical evaluation of each component of the facility’s waste
treatment and disposal system to determine BPTC for each waste constituent
that exceeds a groundwater l imitation. The workplan shall contain a preliminary
evaluati on of each component of the WWTP and effluent disposal system and
propose a time schedule for completing the comprehensive technical evaluation.
The schedule to complete the evaluation shall be as short as practicable , and
shall not exceed one year after receipt of the above workplan.
3. At least 180 days prior to any sludge removal and disposal, the Discharger shall
submit a Sludge Cleanout Plan . The plan shall include a detailed plan for sludge
removal, drying, and disposal. The plan shall specifically describe the phasing of
the project, measures to be used to control runoff or percolate from the sludge as
it is drying, and a schedule that shows how all dried biosolids will be removed
from the site prior to the onset of the r ainy season (1 October) .
4. In the past the WWTP has received cooling tower blowdown, boiler blowdown,
and plant wash -down water from Mount Lassen Power Cogeneration Facility
through a metered, har d-piped connection into the Ponds. Should Mount Lassen
Powe r or other entity resume operations at the Cogeneration Facility, the
Discharger shall submit a complete characterization of the industrial discharge,
an updated water balance, and a treatability anal ysis for Executive Office
approval at least 90 days prior t o the acceptance of industrial wastewater into the
Pond s.
5. A discharger whose waste flow has been increasing, or is projected to increase,
shall estimate when flows will reach hydraulic and treatment capacities of its
treatment, collection, and disposal fac ilities. The projections shall be made in
January, based on the last three years' average dry weather flows, peak wet
weather flows and total annual flows, as appropriate. When any projection shows
that capacity of any part of the facilities may be exceede d in four years, the
discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board by 31 January .
6. In accordance with California Business and Professions Code s ections 6735,
7835, and 7835.1, engineering and geologic evaluations and judgments shall be
performed by or under the direction of registered professionals competent and
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 16
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
proficient in the fields pertinent to the required activities. All technical reports
specified herein that contain workplans for investigations and studies, that
describe the conduct of inve stigations and studies, or that contain technical
conclusions and recommendations concerning engineering and geology shall be
prepared by or under the direction of appropriately qualified professional(s), even
if not explicitly stated. Each technical repor t submitted by the Discharger shall
bear the professional’s signature and stamp.
7. The Discharger shall submit the technical reports and work plans required by this
Order for consideration by the Executive Officer, and incorporate comments the
Executive Offi cer may have in a timely manner, as appropriate. Unless expressly
stated oth erwise in this Order, the Discharger shall proceed with all work required
by the foregoing provisions by the due dates specified.
8. The Discharger shall comply with the operative MRP (i.e., MRP R5-2019-0061
and subsequent revisions thereto) . The submittal dates of Discharger self -
monitoring reports shall be no later than the submittal date specified in the MRP.
9. The Discharger shall comply with the attached Standard Provisions and
Repo rting Requirements for WDRs dated 1 March 1991 (SPRRS or Standard
Provisions), which are incorporated herein.
10. The Discharger shall comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports. On or before each r eport due date,
the Discharger shall submit the specified document to the Central Valley Water
Board or, if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or noncompliance
with the specific schedule date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, th en
the Discharger shall state the reasons for such noncompliance and provide an
estimate of the date when the Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger
shall notify the Central Valley Water Board in writing when it returns to
compliance with the tim e schedule. Violations may result in enforcement action,
including Central Valley Water Board or court orders requiring corrective action
or impos ing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.
11. The Discharger shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed
or used by the Discharger to achieve compliance with the conditions of this
Order. Proper ope ration and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory
controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires
the operation of back -up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems that are installed
by the Discharger when the operat ion is necessary to achieve compliance with
the conditions of this Order.
12. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost -effective control technique(s)
including proper operation and maintenance, to comply with this Order.
ORDER R5 -2019 -0061 17
WESTWOOD C SD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
13. The Discharger shall provide certified wastewater treatment plant operators in
accordance with Title 23 , division 3, chapter 26.
14. As described in the Standard Provisions, the Discharger shall report promptly to
the Central Valley Water Board any material change or proposed change in t he
character, location, or volume of the discharge.
15. In the event that the Discharger reports toxic chemical release data to the State
Emergency Response Commission (SERC) pursuant to section 313 of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act (42 U.S.C. § 11023), the
Discharger shall also report the same information to the Central Valley Water
Board within 15 days of the report to the SERC .
16. The Discharger shall comply with the requirements of the Statewide General
Waste Discharge Requirements (Gen eral WDRs) for Sanitary Sewer Systems
(Water Quality Order 2006 -0003), the Revised General WDRs Monitoring and
Reporting Program (Water Quality Order 2008 -0002 -EXEC), and any subsequent
revisions thereto. Water Quality Order 2006 -0003 and Order 2008 -0002 -EXEC
require the Discharger to notify the Central Valley Water Board and take remedial
action upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanitary sewer system resulting
in a sanitary sewer overflow.
17. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant -free wastewater to be discharged into
the wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal systems in amounts that
significantly diminish the system's capability to comply with this Order. Pollutant -
free wastewater means rainfall, groundwater, cooling waters, and condensates
that are essentially free of pollutants.
18. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement involving disposal or recycling areas or off -site reuse of effluent, used
to justify the capacity authorized here in and assure compliance with this Order,
the Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board in writing of the
situation and of what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full
compliance with this Order.
19. In the event of any change i n control or ownership of the WWT P, the Discharger
must notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by
letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to the Central Valley Water
Board.
20. To assume operation as Discharger un der this Order, the succeeding owner or
operator must apply in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the
Order. The request must contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the state
of incorporation if a corporation, the name and ad dress and telephone number of
the persons responsible for contact with the Central Valley Water Board, and a
statement. The statement shall comply with the signatory paragraph of Standard
Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or operator assumes full

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING A ND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019-0061
FOR
WESTWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/ DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater treatment system. This MRP is issued by the Central Valley Regional Water
Quality Control Board (Central Valley Water Board) pursuant to Water Code section
13267 , subdivision (b)(1) . The Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP
unless and until a revised version is issued by the Central Valley Water Board or its
Executive Officer.
A glossary of terms used in this MRP is included on the last page .
I. General Monitoring Requirements
A. Flow Monitoring
Hydraulic flow rates shall be measured at the monitoring points specified
in this MRP . Central Valley Water Board staff shall approve any proposed
changes to flow monitoring locations prior to implementation of the
change. All flow monitoring systems shall be appropriate for the
conveyance system (i.e., open channel flow or pressure pipeline) and
liquid type. Unless otherwise specified, each flow meter shall be equipped
with a flow totalizer to allow reporting of cumulative volume as well as
instantaneous flow rate. Flow meters shall be calibrated at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer; typically, at least once per year and
records of calibration shall be maintained for review upon request.
B. Monitoring and Sampling Locations
Samples shall be obtained at the monitoring points specified in this MRP
and depicted on Attachment B. Central Valley Water Board staff shall
approve any proposed changes to sampling locations prior to
implementation of the change.
The Discharger shall monitor the following locations to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this Order:
Location Description
Pond 2 (or secondary treatment
pond) Location of a representative sample
of treated effluent
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 2
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 Location Description
MW-1 through MW -3 Groundwater monitoring well
locations.

C. Sampling and Sample Analysis
All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the
discharge or matrix of material sampled. Except as specified otherwise in
this MRP, grab samples will be considered representative of water,
wastewater, soil, solids/sludges and groundwater.
The time, date, and location of each sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form. All analyses shall be performed in
accordance with the Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for
Waste Discharge Requirements , dated 1 March 1991 (Standard
Provisions).
Field test instruments (such as those used to measure pH, electrical
conductivity, dissolved oxygen, wind speed, and precipitation) may be
used provided that:
1. The operator is trained in proper use and maintenance of the
instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated at the frequency recommended
by the manufacturer;
3. The instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer
at the recommended frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the
“Reporting” section of this MRP.
Laboratory analytical procedures shall comply with the methods and
holding times specified in the following (as applicable to the medium to be
analyzed):
• Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial
Wastewater (EPA);
• Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste (EPA);
• Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes (EPA);
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 3
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 • Methods for Determination of Inorganic Substances in Environmental
Samples (EPA);
• Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
(APHA/AWWA/WEF); and
• Soil, Plant and Water Reference Methods for the Western Region
(WREP 125).
Approved editions shall be those that are approved for use by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or the State Water Resources
Control Board, Division of Drinking Water’s (DDW) Environmental
Laboratory Accreditation Program (ELAP). The Discharger may propose
alternative methods for approval. Where technically feasible, laboratory
reporting limits shall be lower than the applicable water quality objectives
for the constituents to be analyzed
If monitoring consistently shows no significant variation in a constituent
concentration or parameter after at least 12 months of monitoring, the
Discharger may request this MRP be revised to reduce monitoring
frequency. The proposal must include adequate technical justification for
reduction in monitoring frequency. This monitoring program shall remain in
effect unless and until a revised MRP is issued.
II. Specific Monitoring Requirements
A. Influent Monitoring
Influent flow ra tes shall be monitored, and influent samples shall be
collected upstream of the treatment system at the location(s) before
entering the pond(s) . At a minimum, influent shall be monitored as
specified below:
Constituent Units Sample Type Sample
Frequency Reporting
Frequency Flow Rate a gpd Meter Continuous Quarterly
gpd denotes gallons per day. mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
a At a minimum, the total flow shall be measured monthly to calculate the average daily flow for the
month.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 4
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 B. Effluent Monitoring
Effluent samples shall be taken from Pond 2 as shown on Attachment B.
At a minimum, effluent shall be monitored as specified below:
Constituent Units Sample
Type Sampling and
Reporting Freq.
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Quarterly
pH standard Grab Quarterly
EC umhos/cm Grab Quarterly
BOD mg/L Grab Quarterly
TDS mg/L Grab Quarterly
FDS mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Ammonia as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrite as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Manganese mg/L Grab Quarterly
Iron mg/L Grab Quarterly
mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
C. Pond Monitoring
Pond 1 or pond used for primary treatment, storage, or disposal of
wastewater shall be monitored as specified below. Dissolved oxygen
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 5
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 monitoring applies to any pond containing more than two feet of standing
water:
Constituent Units Sample Type Sampling and
Reporting Freq.
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Quarterly
pH standard Grab Quarterly
EC umhos/cm Grab Quarterly
BOD mg/L Grab Quarterly
TDS mg/L Grab Quarterly
FDS mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl
Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Ammonia as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrite as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Manganese mg/L Grab Quarterly
Iron mg/L Grab Quarterly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Quarterly
Berm condition -- Observation Quarterly
mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
1 Samples shall be collected opposite the pond inlet at a depth of one foot.
2 Freeboard shall be measured vertically from the surface of the pond water to
the lowest elevation of the surrounding berm and shall be measured to the
nearest 0.1 feet.


MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 6
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 In addition, the Discharger shall inspect the condition of the ponds monthly
and document visual observations. Notations shall include observations
of:
1. Presence of weeds in the water or along the berm;
2. Accumulations of dead algae, vegetation, scum, or de bris on the
pond surface;
3. Animal burrows in the berms;
4. Evidence of seepage from the berms or downslope of the ponds;
5. Evidence of tears, abrasions, cracks, and holes in geosynthetic
liners.
III. GROUNDWATER MONITORING
The Discharger shall maintain the groundwat er monitoring well network. If a
groundwater monitoring well is dry for more than four consecutive sampling events
or is damaged, the Discharger shall submit a work plan and proposed time
schedule to replace the well(s). The well(s) shall be replaced follo wing approval of
the work plan.
The Discharger shall monitor groundwater quality as required herein fro m
Monitoring W ells MW -1 (background compliance well) , MW -2 (cross -gradient
compliance well) and MW -3 (downgradient compliance well) .
A. Groundwater Sampling and Analysis
Prior to purging or sampling, the groundwater depth shall be measured in
each well to the nearest 0.01 feet. Groundwater elevations shall then be
calculated to determine groundwater gradient and flow direction.
Low or no -purge sampling methods are acceptable, if described in an
approved Sampling and Analysis Plan. Otherwise, each monitoring well
shall be purged of at least 3 to 5 casing volumes until pH, electrical
conductivity and turbidity have stabilized prior to samplin g. Groundwater
monitoring for all monitoring wells shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
Constituent Units Sample Type Sampling/Reporting
Frequency
Groundwater
Elevation a 0.01 Feet Calculated Quarterly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 7
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 Constituent Units Sample Type Sampling/Reporting
Frequency
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly
Gradient Feet/Feet Calculated Quarterly
Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly
pH Std. Units Grab Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl
Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Ammonia as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrite as N mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Sodium mg/L Grab Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly
Manganese mg/L Grab Quarterly
Iron mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform
Organisms b MPN/100
mL Grab Quarterly
 MPN/100 mL denotes most probable number per 100 mL sample. Std. Units denotes
standard units. mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
a. Groundwater elevation shall be based on depth to water using a surveyed measuring
point elevation on the well and a surveyed reference elevation.
b. Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions.

IV. SLUDGE/BIOSOLIDS MONITORING
Sludge and/or biosolids monitoring shall be conducted as required in Title 40 of
the Code of Fed eral Regulations (40 CFR), Part 503.8(b)(4) at the following
frequency, depending on volume of sludge generated and removed from the
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 8
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 wastewater treatment system for disposal or treated for beneficial reuse as
biosolids:
1
 For the purpose of this MRP, “generated” means produced as a separate waste stream
by sludge wasting or pond cleanout. It does not apply to sludge that accumulates in treatment
or storage ponds until the sludge is removed for treatment or disposal.
At a minimum, sludge/biosolids samples shall be analyzed to determin e the total
concentration in mg/Kg for arsenic, lead, nickel, cadmium, mercury, selenium,
copper, molybdenum, zinc, total nitrogen, and total solids.
Sludge and/or biosolids monitoring records shall be retained for a minimum of
five years in accordance wit h 40 CFR, Part 503.17. A log shall be kept of sludge
quantities generated and of handling, application, and disposal activities. The
frequency of entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete
enough to serve as a basis to report sludge moni toring.
The Discharger shall demonstrate that treated sludge (i.e., biosolids) meets
Class A or Class
B pathogen reduction levels by one of the methods listed in 40 CFR, Part 503.32,
and shall maintain records of the operational parameters used to comply w ith the
Vector Attraction Reduction requirements in 40 CFR, Part 503.33(b), as well as
records of offsite disposal (quantity, date, disposal site).
V. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
All monitoring reports should be converted to a searchable Portable Document
Format ( PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB
should be emailed to: centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov .
To ensure that your submittal is routed to the appropriate staff person, the
following information should be included in the subject line of the email:
Westwood CSD/ Lassen /WDR
WDID # 5A180102001
Documents that are 50 MB or larger should be transferred to a CD, DVD, or flash
drive and mailed to the foll owing address: Volume Generated 1 (dry metric
tons/year) Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
0 to 290 Annually Annually
290 to 1,500 Quarterly Monthly
1,500 to 15,000 Bimonthly Monthly
Greater than 15,000 Monthly Monthly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 9
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board
364 Knollcrest Drive, Suite 205
Redding, CA 96002
A transmittal letter shall accompany each monitoring report. The letter shall
include a discussion of all violations of the WDRs and this M RP during the
reporting period and actions taken or planned for correcting each violation. If the
Discharger has previously submitted a report describing corrective actions taken
and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions, reference to the
previous correspondence will be satisfactory. Pursuant to Section B.3 of the
Standard Provisions and General Reporting Requirements, the transmittal letter
shall contain a statement by the Discharger or the Discharger’s authorized agent
certifying und er penalty of perjury that the report is true, accurate and complete
to the best of the signer’s knowledge.
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form
so that the date, sample type (e.g., effluent, pond, etc.), and reported analytical
result for each sample are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in
such a manner to clearly illustrate compliance with waste discharge requirements
and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable. The results of an y monitoring done
more frequently than required at the locations specified in the Monitoring and
Reporting Program shall be reported in the next scheduled monitoring report.
Laboratory analysis reports do not need to be included in the monitoring reports;
however, all laboratory reports must be retained for a minimum of three years in
accordance with Standard Provision C.3. For a Discharger conducting any of its
own analyses, reports must also be signed and certified by the chief of the
laboratory.
In addition to the requirements of Standard Provision C.3, monitoring information
shall include the method detection limit (MDL) and the Reporting limit (RL) or
practical quantitation limit (PQL). If the regulatory limit for a given constituent is
less than the RL (or PQL), then any analytical results for that constituent that are
below the RL (or PQL) but above the MDL shall be reported and flagged as
estimated.
All monitoring reports that involve planning, investigation, evaluation or design, or
other work requiring interpretation and proper application of engineering or
geologic sciences, shall be prepared by or under the direction of persons
registered to practice in California pursuant to California Business and
Professions Code sections 673 5, 7835, and 7835.1.
In the future, the State Water Board or Central Valley Regional Water Board may
require electronic submittal of monitoring reports using the State Water Board’s
California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) Program Web site
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2019- 0061 10
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT /DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
 (http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs/index.html ) or similar system. Electronic
submittal to CIWQS, when implemented, will meet the requirements o f our
Paperless Office System.
A. Monthly Monitoring Reports
Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Boar d by the 1st day
of the second month following the end of the reporting period (i.e. the
January monthly report is due by March 1st). At a minimum, each
monitoring report shall include the following:
1. Results of monthly Influent and Effluent Monitoring.
2. Results of Pond Monitoring.
3. Results of Industrial Wastewater Monitoring, if applicable.
4. Results of Sludge/Biosolids Monitoring, if applicable, and
verification of classification of biosolids as nonhazardous per 22
California Code of Regulations (CCR), Article 11, Criteria for
Identification of Hazardous and Extremely Hazardous Waste
(California Assessment Manual procedures).
5. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s).
6. A comparison of monitoring data to the