FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Mountain House and
serves a population of approximately 21,750 . The current design daily average flow
capacity of the Facility is 4.0 MGD , with plans to expand the capacity up to 5.4 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger has completed construction of modifications and improvements to
the Facility to improve treatment reliability and produc tion of effluent quality that
meets Title 22 recycled water applications , and the average dry weather flow
treatment capacity has increased to 4 MGD . The F acility improvements included
installation of five new influent pumps, new ultra -fine screening and grit removal
headworks, replacing the sequencing batch reactors ( SBRs ) and disk filters with
membrane bioreactors ( MBRs ), and upgrading the UV disinfec tion system. The
capacity of the influent pump station has increased to 18 MGD to sustain peak wet
weather flows.
The Facility consists of the following unit operations: influent pumping, flow
measurement, fine screening, grit removal, emergency storage, MBR s for biological
treatment and filt ration, UV disinfection, effluent pumping, effluent disposal, and
solids handling.
The Facility also includes two lined, aerated storage reservoirs for use during
emergency situations and during plant maintenance. The storage reservoirs have a
capacity of approximately 12 million gallons, which provide automatic short -term
emergency stor age. Level and flow metering, aeration equipment, and discharge
pumping facilities are available to allow a metered return to the regular process
stream.
Sludge handling at the Facility includes two stage aerobic digesters, a drum
thickener, and a centrifuge. Sludge supernatant is returned to the anoxic reactor
headworks prior to proceeding to the fine screens . Solids are collected in a truck and
removed by a hauler (currently Synagro) for disposal at a licensed biosolids facility.
The Facility produces approximately 150 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the bioso lids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger has plans to ultimately expand treatment capacity to 5.4 MGD to
accommodate population growth. The Facility is currently using four out of the six
filter bays in the MBR system. Once another expansion is needed, t he remaining two
filter bays will b e equipped with new filters and permeate pumps, along with some
minor adjustments made to the control strategy in the operating system . The need
for an expansion of treatment capacity to 5.4 MGD is dependent upon the rate of
population growth .
III.