Wastewater Treatment and Disposal

15. According to t he August 2015 RWD , the WWTF upgrades will include: a submersible
pump in storage Pond 4, a flocculation tank, suspended air flotation unit, granular media
filter, storage tank for filter backwash, sludge dewatering geotextile tubes, and a second chlorine contact tank. A site map of the WWTF is shown in Attachment A and a process
flow schematic is shown on Attachment B , both of which are attached hereto and made
part of this Order by reference.

16. The wastewater at the WWTF will enter through the headworks and proceed to the four
aeration ponds. The ponds are typically operated in series , but piping and valves are
installed to provide the ability to divert flow from each of the ponds to Diversion Box
No. 5 or to isolate and bypass a single pond. From Diversion Box No. 5, the wastewater
will be pumped to a flocculation tank followed by a suspended air flotation unit .
Coagulant is added to the wastewater upstream of the flocculation tank and then
surfactant is added in the suspended air flotation unit. The wastewater then flow s by
gravity to three dual -media filters operated in parallel. Filter effluent flows by gravit y to a
storage tank and then to two six -pass serpentine chlorine contact tanks operated in
series. Sodium Hypochlorite is injected at the beginning of the first chlorine contact
tank. After the chlorine contact tanks , the treated wastewater will flow to the storage
ponds.

17. The WWTF will produce an effluent anticipated to meet coliform levels of 2.2 Most Probable Number per 100 milliliters (MPN/100 mL).
 18. The agreement between the Discharger and Devine and Wood for the delivery of
treated wastewater from the WWTF to the Use Areas expired on 31 May 2015.
By letter of 4 May 2015, both the Discharger and Devine and Wood extended the
terms of their agreement through the construction of the WWTF upgrades to produce disinfec ted tertiary wastewater. At this time it is unknown if after
completion of the WWTF upgrades , Devine and Wood will continue to accept
wastewater generated by the Prison. This Order includes a Provision requiring the Discharger and/or any User of the treated wastewater to apply for coverage
under the State Water Resource Cont rol Board Order WQ 2016- 0068 -DDW ,
Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use.
 19. According to the RWD, s ludge produced from the WWTF will be dewatered in
geotextiles tubes installed inside roll -off bins. Water will drain through pores in the

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2016 -0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
 -5-
geotextile tubes and into the roll -off bins. The rear door of the roll -off bin (s) will be
propped open slightly to allow free water to drain from the roll -off bin (s) to a concrete
slab below. Water on the concrete slab will drain to a sump and then pumped back to
the aeration ponds for treatment. Once the geotextile tube( s) are filled, the geotextile
tube( s) will be left to drain for up to a week. Then the geotexti le tube (s) and solids will
be dumped as a unit in a landfill. The roll -off bins will be returned to the WWTF and new
geotextile tube(s) will be placed in the roll -off bin(s) and the process will be repeated.

20. The WWTF will have reliability and redundancy features that will include: a) multiple
aeration ponds capable of producing oxidized wastewater with one pond not in operation; b) aerator alarms and alarms from downstream treatment processes; c) connection from the aeration ponds directly to the chlorine contact tanks will be remo ved, preventing the possibility of treated wastewater from going directly to
disinfection and bypassing filtration; and d) emergency storage of wastewater not
meeting Title 22 requirements.

Wastewater Collection System
 21. The Discharger’s collection syste m is comprised of about five miles of gravity sewer
lines and an influent pump station outside of the secured perimeters where flow is
screened then pumped through one mile of force main to the WWTF.
22. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Resources Control Board (hereafter State Water
Board) adopted a General Sanitary Sewer System Order (State Water Resources
Control Board Order No. 2006- 0003 -DWQ, Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems ) (the “General Order”). The General Order
requires that all public agencies that own or operate sanitary sewers systems greater
than one mile in length comply with the General Order. The Discharger’s collection system is greater than on mile in length. The Discharger has applied for, and is enrolled
under the General Order.

Site-Specific Conditions
 23. The Prison obtains it source water from the City of Coalinga via the Coalinga Canal
which originates at the California Aqueduct. The quality of source water , based on the
City of Coalinga Consumer Confidence Report s, is as follows.

Table 4. Source Water Quality

 Sodium Chloride Nitrate as Nitrate Electrical Conductivity Total Dissolved Solids Iron
 mg/L mg/L mg/L umhos/cm mg/L mg/L
2012 86 110 2.7 640 250 ---
2013 51 77 3.5 --- --- ---
2014 74 110 1.6 --- --- ---

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2016 -0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
 -6-
2015 60 82 3.1 560 330 0.037

24. According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) maps (Map Number
06019C3250H) the WWTF is in Zone X. Areas in Zone X have a 1 percent annual chance of flood with average depths are less than one foot or with drainage areas less
than one square mile.

25. Soils in the vicinity of the WWTF are Posochanet clay loam, Excelsior sandy loam, and
Lethent clay loam, according to the Web Soil Survey published by the United States
Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service. Posochanet clay
loam, Excelsior sandy loam, and Lethent clay loam have land capability classifications of
2s, 1, and 3s , respectively. Soils with “Class 1” have sli ght limitations that restrict their
use. Soils with “Class 2” have moderate limitations that restrict the choice of plants or require moderate conservation practices. Soils with “Class 3” have severe limitations
that restrict the choice of plants or require special conservation practices, or both. The
subclass “s” shows that the soil has limitations within the root zone, such as shallowness of the root zone, a high content of stones, a low available water capacity, low fertility, and excessive salinity or sodicity. Overcoming these limitations is difficult.
 26. The WWTF is in an arid climate characterized by dry summers and mild winters. The
rainy season generally extends from October through April. The average annual
precipitation in the area is about 7.62 inches based on 70 years of data collected by the
Western Regional Climate Center. Average annual pan evaporation in the discharge
area is about 89 inches, according to the Department of Water Res ources (DWR) ,
Bulletin 73-79, Evaporation from Water Surfaces in California, November 1979.

27. Land uses in the vicinity of the WWTF consist of agriculture. The California Department
of State Hospitals, Coalinga State Hospital is immediately adjacent to the Pleasant Valley State Prison to the east , its WWTF is regulated by WDRs R5- 2013- 0055.
Primary crops grown in the area include cotton, pistachios, sugar beets, onions , and
garlic accordi ng to the Fresno County 2000 Land Use Map published by DWR .


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2016 -0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
 -7-
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Water Quality Objectives

28. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition, revised
January 2015 (the “Basin Plan”) designates beneficial uses, establishes narrative and
numerical water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for
protecting all waters of the Basin, and incorporates, by reference, plans and policies of
the State Water Board. In accordance with Water Code section 13263(a), these waste
discharge requirements implement the Basin Plan.

29. The WWTF is in Detailed Analysis Unit (DAU) No. 245, within the Pleasant Valley Basin hydrologic unit. The Basin Plan identifies the beneficial uses of groundwater in this DAU
as municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural supply (AGR), and industrial
service supply (IND).

30. The WWTF is in the Kettleman Hydrologic Area (No. 558.50) of the South Valley Floor
Hydrologic Unit, as depicted on hydrologic maps prepared by State Water Resources Control Board. The nearest surface water is the Los Gatos Creek, a Valley Floor Water
at the location of the WWTF but it originates in the Juniper Ridge Hydrologic Area
(No. 559.20) of the Coast Range Hydrologic Unit as a West Side Stream . As indicated
in the Basin Plan, the beneficial uses of both Valley Floor Waters and West Side
Streams that includes Los Gatos Creek are follows: agricultural supply (AGR), industrial
service supply (IND); industrial process supply (PRO); water contact recreation (REC -1);
non-contact water recreation (REC -2); warm freshwater habitat (WARM); wildlife habitat
(WILD); rare, threatened, or endangered species (RARE); and groundwater recharge (GWR).
 31. The Basin P lan includes a water quality objective for chemical constituents that at a
minimum, requires waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs) specified in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR) ( Title 22). The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water
Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.

32. The Basin Plan establi shes narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents,
taste and odors, and toxicity. The toxicity objective, in summary, requires that
groundwater be maintained free of toxic substances in concentrations that produce
detrimental physiological responses in human, plant, animal, or aquatic life associated
with designated beneficial uses. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site -specific evaluation of those constituents that have the potential to impact water
quality and beneficial uses.

33. The Basin Plan identifies the greatest long -term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake
Basin as the increase in salinity in groundwater, which has accelerated due to the intensive use of soil and water resources by irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2016 -0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
 -8-
recognizes that degradation is unavoidable until there is a long -term solution to the salt
imbalance. Until then, the Basin Plan establishes several salt management
requirements, including:

a. The maximum EC in the discharge shall not exceed the EC of the source water plus 500 umhos/cm. When the source water is from more than one source, the EC shall
be a weighted average of all sources.

b. Discharges to areas that may recharge to good quality groundwater, shall not exceed an EC of 1,000 umhos/cm, a chloride of 175 mg/L, or a boron content of 1.0 mg/L.
The Basin Plan generally applies these limits to industrial discharges to land.

Groundwater Considerations
 34. The Discharger does not have a groundwater monitoring well network at the WWTF. Groundwater in the area is approximately 373 feet below ground surface (bgs)
according to Lines of Equal Elevation of Water in Wells in Unconfined Aquifer map
published by the Department of Water Resources 2004.

35. Based on available groundwater data found in the United States Geological Survey
National Water Information System: Mapper, t he quality of groundwater in the area
based on four nearby wells is shown in Table 5. For comparison purposes, State
drinking water primary and secondary MCLs are listed at the end of the table , where
bold, constituent concentrations are greater than listed MCLs .

Table 5. Quality of Groundwater

 Well
Depth
(feet bgs) Date
Sampled Electrical
Conductivity
(umhos/cm) Nitrate
as
Nitrogen
(mg/L) Calcium
(mg/L) Magnesium
(mg/L) Sodium
(mg/L) Potassium
(mg/L) Chloride
(mg/L)

21S16E10N002M 350 9/1/1951 1,410 1.36 93 51 150 2.8 52
21S16E08E001M 463 9/1/1951 1,890 1.9 116 81 220 5 98
2/29/1964 1,950 --- 104 --- --- --- ---
20S16E34H001M 850 6/23/2010 1,740 <0.039 72.2 19.7 276 2.8 93
20S16E32D003M 247 9/1/1951 2,860 1.47 160 160 320 7 160
Maximum Contaminant Levels 900/1 ,600 10 n/a n/a n/a n/a 250

36. Groundwater is of poor quality with respec t to electrical conductivity, w ith EC ranging
from 1,740 to 2,860 umhos /cm. Generally, the quality of the current discharge with EC
of 924 umhos/cm is of better quality than that of groundwater.



WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2016 -0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
 -9-

Antidegradation Analysis

37. State Water Board Resolution 68- 16, the Statement of Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality of Waters in California ( State Antidegradation Policy ) generally
prohibits the Central Valley Water Board from authorizing activities that will result in the
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:

a. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state
and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives;

b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial
uses;

c. The Discharger employs B est Practicable Treatment or C ontrol (BPTC) to minimize
degradation; and

d. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state .
 38. Constituents of concern in the discharge that have the potential to degrade groundwater
include s alts and nutrients. This Order establishes terms and conditions of discharge to
ensure that the discharge does not unreasonably affect present and anticipated uses of
groundwater and includes groundwater limitations that apply water quality objectives
established in the Basin Plan to protect beneficial uses. The discharge will not
unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial uses of groundwater
because:

a. For salinity, the Basin Plan contains

===PLANNED CHANGES===

