Existing Facility and Discharge

9. The system consists of inlet structures (flume, ultrasonic flow meter, and two distribution
boxes), and four ponds . A previously permitted overland flow/ land application area will
be decommissioned as indicated in Provision 1.F.c , of this order. Inlet flow can also be
diverted to Pond 2 or Pond 3 to allow drying and cleanout of Pond 1 . Pond 2 is
segmented by an earthen berm dividing the pond into an east and west cell. Pond 4 is
considerably smaller than the others and is intended for use in emergency situations.
Pond areas are approximately 8.3, 6. 9, 4.8, and 0.9 acres for Ponds 1 through 4 ,
respectively.

10. Wastewater receives essentially no treatment before entering the Facility’s pond system .
Treatment in the ponds consists of natural aeration and decomposition.

11. In response to Central Valley Water Board CDO R5-2000 -0109 the exist ing collection
system was fully replaced between 2002 and 2006 .

Site-Specific Conditions

12. The Facility’s wastewater treatment ponds are at elevations of approximately 3,175 to
3,190 feet mean sea level ( MSL). The overall topography at the Facility slopes to the
west with a grade of approximately 2 to 3%, towards Squaw Valley Creek . Squaw Valley
Creek flows southward in the watershed and is a tributary to the McCloud River
(Attachments A and B) .

13. The Facility is located within the 100 -year floo d pla in of Squaw Valley Creek (Attachment
B). Located in Zone AE; the base flood elevation ranges from 3,178 to 3,186 feet MSL.

14. The Facility is located 8 miles south of the base of Mt. Shasta , within the Cascade Range
geologic province of northern California, predominantly comprised of Tertiary age
volcanic rocks. Geologic formations exposed or underlying the Facility are mapped as
Quaternary -age alluvium and basalt. The treatment ponds are constructed over alluvium
consisting of mud flow and glacial deposits originating from the slopes of Mt. Shasta.
The Facility is underlain by fractured andesitic basalt and dense gray pyroxene andesite .

ORDER R5 -2017 -0078 3
MCCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREAT MENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
SISKIYOU COUNTY

15. The soil types encountered at the Facility included silt, fine to medium sand, and silty to
sandy gravel. These soils are underlain by v olcanic (andesitic) bedrock from
approximately 12 to 18 feet below ground surface (bgs). A grading analysis run on soils
collected from th e bottom of Pond 2 classified the soil as fine silty sand. A typical
permeabilit y value for fine sil ty sand is 3 x 10-5 centimeter/second.

16. Annual Precipitation in the area is approximately 50 inches with an annual pan
evaporation of approximately 55 inches.

17. In the immediate vicinity of the Facility , land uses consist of timberland production, open
space, rural residential, and commercial (golf course).


Groundwater Conditions
18. Generally, the volcanic units in this area have variable gro undwater yields, with
production zones at a depth of approximately 200 feet bgs. The Facility is located within
the Squaw Creek Hydrologic Area (505.10) that lies within the McCloud Hydrologic Unit
(505.00) which is part of the Sacramento Hydrologic Basin as delineated by the California
Department of Water R esources (DWR) . The Facility lies to the north of the Redding
Basin, the northernmost sub basin of the Sacramento Valley basin.

19. In response to CDO 93 -248 the Discharger conducted various investigations in support of
required corrective actions. From these investigations it was determined that t he upper
surface of volcanic bedrock underlying the Facility is unsaturated and serves as an
aquitard in some locati ons, but as a conduit in other locations. Groundwater was absent
in several test borings, drill ed to less than two feet bgs below Pond 2 before encountering
bedrock.

20. In 1979 , a dye study was performed by Central Valley Water Board staff from the
wastewater ponds and indicated no observed impacts in the nearby Squaw Valley Creek
or other areas of known/s uspected groundwater surfacing/discharge. Additionally
coliform analysis of samples taken from Squaw Valley Creek were collected above and
below the ponds also indicated no observed impacts from the wastewater ponds .

21. According to DWR information, data gathered from 19 domestic well logs in the area,
indicate an average total depth of well s to be approximately 120 feet bgs, with an
average depth to static water of 34 feet bgs. Information also obtained from DWR
indicated w ell yields range d from 10 t o 100 gallons per min ute (gpm) . The distance from
the ponds to the closest water supply well(s) is unknown; however there are no wells
within a half mile downgradient of the ponds, as th is property is owned by the Discharger.

22. Four m onitoring wells were in stalled in February 2016 in response to the Central Valley
Water Board ’s request for a new RWD. Groundwater gradient is to the south -southwest ,
generally following surface topography. Depth to groundwater in onsite monitoring wells
ranged from approximately 2 to 5 feet bgs.

ORDER R5 -2017 -0078 4
MCCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREAT MENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
SISKIYOU COUNTY

23. Shallow groundwater beneath the site is likely seasonal or precipitation dependent.
Groundwater levels in onsite monitoring wells declined approximately 2.8 to 3.3 feet
between March and May 2016 monitoring events.

24. Based on onsite monitoring wells , shallow groundwater quality is good. N one of the
measured parameters exceeded their respective maximum contaminant levels ( MCL s).
Effluent quality is poorer than the shallow groundwater, but also did not exceed MCL s for
the measured parameters in the March 2016 sampling event .

25. Percolating effluent moves into fractured bedrock underlying the ponds and migrates into
underlying strata . The exact quality of the effluent that moves through fractured bedrock
is unknown, but it is reasonable to assume that it is of similar quality to that observed in
the Facility ’s shallow groundwater monitoring wells , which meets Water Quality
Objectives (WQOs) for the constitutions of concern . Thus, the discharge (pond
percolation) does not appear to adversely affect groundwater quality, nor should it cause
WQOs to be exceeded .

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

26. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins ,
Fourth Edition , revised July 2016 (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses,
establishes WQOs , contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of
the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the State Water
Board. Pursuant to California Water Code section13263(a), waste discharge
requirements must implement the Basin Plan.

27. Local drainage is to Squaw Valley Creek a tributary of the McCloud River . The beneficial
uses of the McCloud River , as stated in the Basin Plan, are Municipal and Domestic
Supply (MUN) , Hydropower Generation (POW) , Water Contact Recreation (REC -1) and
Non-contact Water Recreation (REC -2); including canoei ng and rafting , Cold Freshwater
Habitat (COLD) , Spawning, Reproduction, and/or Early Development (SPWN) , Wildlife
Habitat (WILD) and other aquatic resources.

28. The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as set forth in the Basin Plan are
Industrial Process , Municipal and Domestic Supply (MUN), Agricultural Supply (AGR) ,
Industrial Service Supply (IND) , Industrial Process Supply (PRO) .

29. The Basin Plan establishes narrative WQOs for chemical constituents, tastes and odors,
and toxicity in groundwater. It also sets forth a numeric objective for total coliform
organisms.

30. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objective for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven -day period shall be less
than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater.

31. The Basin Plan’s narrative WQOs for chemical constituents, at a minimum, require
waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the MCLs specified in Title
ORDER R5 -2017 -0078 5
MCCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREAT MENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
SISKIYOU COUNTY

22 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 22) . The Basin Plan recognizes
that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure
that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect
beneficial uses.

32. The narrative toxicity objective r equires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic
substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in
human, animal, plant, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses.

33. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site -specific evaluation of those
constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses. The
Basin Plan states that when compliance with a narrative objective is required to protect
specific beneficial uses , the Central Valley Water Board will, on a case -by-case basis,
adopt numerical limitations in order to implement the narrative objective.

34. In the absence of specific numerical water quality limits, the Basin Plan methodology is to
consider any relevant published criteria. General salt tolerance guidelines, such as
Water Quality for Agriculture by Ayers and Westcot and similar references indicate that
yield reductions in nearly all crops are not evident when irrigation water has an EC less
than 700 μmhos /cm. There is, however, an eight - to ten -fold range in salt tolerance for
agricultural crops and the appropriate salinity values to protect agriculture in the Central
Valley are considered on a case -by-case basis. It is possible to achieve full yield
potential with waters having EC up to 3,000 μmhos/cm if the proper leaching fraction is
provided to maintain soil salinity within the tolerance of the crop.

Antidegradation Analysis

35. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68 -16, the Statement of Po licy with
Respect to Maintaining High Quality of Waters in California ( Antidegradation Policy )
generally prohibits the Central Valley Water Board from authorizing activities that will
result in the degradation of high -quality waters unless it has been show n that :
a. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state
and regional policies, including violation of one or more WQOs;
b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future
beneficial uses ;
c. The discharger employs Best Practicable Treatment or Control (BPTC) to minimize
degradation ; and
d. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.

36. Prior to 2016 the Discharger was not required to monitor groundwater qua lity at the
Facility . Although current data is limited to two sampling events, shallow groundwater
shows limited degradation (which may or may not have been caused by the operation of
the WWTP), but no exceedances of an applicable WQO. Shallow groundwater is likely
only present seasonally or after significant p recipitation events . As discussed previously ,
ORDER R5 -2017 -0078 6
MCCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREAT MENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
SISKIYOU COUNTY

local groundwater supplies are derived from fractured volcanic bedrock – wells are
typically screened to 120 feet bgs with a static water level of 34 feet.

37. Constituents of concern that have the potential to degrade groundwater include salts
(primarily TDS, sodium, and chloride), nutrients and coliform organisms, as discussed
below .
Constituent Concentration (mg/L)
Influent
(Pond sample) Effluent 1 Background
Groundwater 2 Downgradient
Groundwater 3 Potential Water
Quality Objective
TDS 320 110 55 47 450 4 to 1,500 8
Nitrate (N) <0.02 <0.02 0.1 0.73 10 6
Ammonia
Nitrogen 16 NA 0.056J 0.028J --
Sulfate 5.8 0.54J 1.6 0.91J 250 7
Sodium 24 13 12 4.9 69 4
Chloride 16 8.35 3.2 0.90 106 4 - 600 8
Manganese NA 0.316 NA NA 0.050 7
Iron NA 12.9 NA NA 0.300 7
Arsenic NA 0.001 NA NA 0.010 6
 NA denotes Not Analyzed , J - Below reporting limits, estimated value
1 EFF- 1, placed in berm of Pond 1, sampled 5/26/16
2 MW-1, upgradient well, sampled 3/16/16
3 MW-3, downgradient well, sampled 3/16/16
4 Lowest agricultural water quality goal. 6 Primary Maximum Contaminant Level.
7 Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level.
8 Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level range

a. Total Dissolved Solids . The influent TDS concentration is approximately 320 mg/L,
which is low for a typical domestic wastewater treatment facility and appears to drop to
110 mg/L after percolating through the vadose zone below the pond as indicated by
Effluent sample above. This appears to indicate that the Discharger’s current treatment
practices are effective. The background groundwater concentration is 55 mg/L and
downgradient concentration is 47 mg/L. Therefore, the discharge is not likely to degrade
groundwater quality due to increased salinity and a TDS

===PLANNED CHANGES===

