facility description on official letterhead that includes the items listed in section 3 of 
Attachment B. 
4. Pretreatment program information, if applicable.  
B. Additional Requirements for Specific Dischargers  
1. Low Volume Dischargers.  Section 1.3, Step 8 of the SIP reads, in part, “ The RWQCB 
shall require periodic monitoring (at least once prior to the issuance and reissuance of a 
permit) for pollutants for which criteria or objectives apply and for which no effluent 
limitations have been established; however, the RWQCB may choose to exempt low 
volume discharges, determined to have no significant adverse impact on water quality, 
from this monitoring requirement .”  Section IX. F of the Monitoring and Reporting Program 
requires effluent for priority pollutants twice during the permit term and receiving water 
monitoring for priority pollutants once  during the permit term. Low volume Dischargers 
may qualify for an exception to the sampling requirements for some or all of the priority 
pollutants, provided the Discharger can sufficiently justify that the discharge will have no 
significant adverse impact on water quality.  Dischargers seeking an exception to the sampling requirements for priority pollut ants must submit justification as part of the Notice 
of Intent.  If the Central Valley Water Board finds that the justification is not sufficient to 
grant an exception to the sampling requirements, the Discharger will be required to 
analyze the discharge f or all priority pollutants as part of the Effluent and Receiving Water 
Characterization Study required in section IX. F of the Monitoring and Reporting Program 
(Attachment E). 
2. Existing Dischargers.  Dischargers  currently regulated under an existing individual 
NPDES permit  (“existing D ischargers”) may provide additional representative data for the 
effluent and/or receiving water that they wish to be considered that has not been reported in the California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) during the last 3 years, if 
available.   If an existing Discharger has completed a major upgrade to their existing 
facility for which representative data is not available from the upgraded facility  or the 
upgrades have not been completed,  the Discharger shall provide estim ated data for the 
proposed effluent and receiving water and for the priority pollutants and other 
constituents of concern listed in section IX.F  of the Monitoring and Reporting Program 
(Attachment E).  The Discharger will be required to sample the effluent and report the 
analytical results for the priority pollutants and other constituents of concern listed in 
section IX.F of the Monitoring and Reporting Program (Attachment E) within 18 months 
for an upgraded facility that is fully operational at the time of the issuance of the Notice of 
Applicability  or within 21 months following completion of construction of the upgrades to 
the existing facility.  
3. New Dischargers.  New Dischargers shall provide either analytical results  (if the 
proposed new discharge is from an operational facility) or estimated data (if the proposed 
MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS THAT MEET  ORDER R5 -2017 -0085- 01 
OBJECTIVES/CRITERIA AT THE POINT OF DISCHARGE TO SURFACE WATER  NPDES NO. CAG 585001 
 
 
ATTACHMENT F –  FACT SHEET  F-7 new discharge is from a new facility for which construction and startup has not been 
completed) for the proposed effluent and receiving water  for the priority pollutants and 
other constituents of concern listed in section IX. F of the Monitoring and Reporting 
Program (Attachment E).  If estimated data are provided, the Discharger will be required 
to sample the effluent and report the analytical r esults for the priority pollutants and other 
constituents of concern listed in section IX. F of the Monitoring and Reporting Program 
(Attachment E)  within 18 months  for a new facility that is fully operational at the time of 
the issuance of the Notice of Ap plicability  or within 21 months following completion of 
construction of a new facility that is not fully operational at the time of the issuance of the 
Notice of Applicability . 
4. New or Increased  Discharge. Dischargers requesting a new discharge or expanding 
facility capacity beyond their current permitted average dry weather flow shall provide an 
antidegradation analysis and a feasibility analysis for wastewater disposal, 
regionalization, and recycled water alternatives .  
The State Water Board established California’s antidegradation policy in State Water 
Board Resolution No. 68-16 (“Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining High 
Quality of Waters in California”). Resolution No. 68- 16 requires that existing water quality 
be maintained until it has been demonstrated that any change will be consistent with 
maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not unreasonably affect present and 
anticipated beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality lass than that prescribed in 
State policies. Additionally, Resolution No. 68- 16 requires that any activity which 
produces or may produce a waste or increased volume or concentration of waste and 
which discharges or proposes to discharge to existing high quality waters be required to 
meet  WDR’s  that result in the best practicable treatment or control of the discharge 
necessary to assure that a pollution or nuisance will not occur and the highest water 
quality consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State will be maintained. Th e 
antidegradation analysis shall be developed in accordance with the antidegradation provisions of 40 C.F.R. section 131.12 and State Water Board Resolution No. 68- 16 and 
guidance in Administrative Procedures Update (APU) No. 90- 004, Antidegradation Policy  
Implementation for NPDES Permitting.  
Pursuant to section 2, Article X, California Constitution, and Water Code section 275, on 
preventing waste and unreasonable use of waters of the state, the Central Valley Water 
Board encourages, wherever practicable, w ater conservation and/or re- use of 
wastewater.  Therefore, to obtain coverage under this General Order, Dischargers are 
required to evaluate their wastewater disposal, regionalization, and recycled water 
alternatives . 
5. UV Disinfection Dischargers.  Discharge rs that use UV disinfection shall provide a copy 
of the site -specific engineering study and DDW approval letter if requesting site- specific 
UV disinfection system operating specifications  in lieu of the specification in Special 
Provisions VII.C.4.b.i and  ii. Dischargers that use UV disinfection shall also provide a 
description of chlorine use and demonstration that chlorine use is managed properly  if 
chlorine is used within the treatment system for cleaning and/or maintenance purposes.  
IV.