Facility Information

1. The names , certificate grades, and general responsibilities of all persons in charge of
wastewater treatment and disposal.

2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WCP for emergency
and routine situations.

3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and ot her monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (Standard Provision
C.4).

4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan, and
contingency plan, reflec t the WCP as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when
these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.

5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2018-0046
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY -9-
6.A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations hav e
oc
curred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring t he
di
scharge into full compliance with this Order.
Biosolids/Sludge Monitoring
1.A
nnual production to tals in dry tons or cubic yards.
2.A
 description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal
methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage disposed of by eac h
m
ethod.
a. For
 landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order number
of the WDRs that regulate it.
b. For
 land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs
that regulate it.
c.For
 incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration occurs, the
Order number of the WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of ash, and the
name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).
d. For
 composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs that
regulate it.
D
. Pretreatment Reporting
T
he Discharger shall submit annual and quarterly pretreatment report s as required by Standard
Provision E.7 (SPRRs) .
T
he Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.
O
rdered by: __________________________ ____
PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer
_________ 31 May 2018 __________
(D ate)
ORIGINAL SIGNED BY
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2018-0046
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY

 -10-
GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand @ 20° C
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved soli ds
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non -consecutive
days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non- consecutive
weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times
per year) during non -consecutive months.
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January,
April, July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times
per year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be
collected in April and October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
ug/L Micrograms per liter
umhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium Nitrate
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance
ORDER R5 -2018- 0046
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY

INFORMATION SHEET

BACKGROUND

The City of Visalia (City) owns and operates a wastewater treatment facility also known as the Water
Conservation Plant (WCP) that produces disinfected tertiary treated wastewater. The WCP serves the
City of Visalia and adjacent unincorporated community of Goshen in Tulare County.

Waste Discharge Requirements Order R5- 2014 -0076 (NPDES No. CA0079189) was adopted on
6 June 2014. Along with adoption of the Order, the Cent ral Valley Water Board adopted Tim e
Schedule Order (TSO) R5-2014- 0077 which required Visalia to come into complianc e with the
ammonia and copper limits in Order R5 -2014- 0076.

On 16 June 2016, the City submitted a Notice of Intent ( NOI) with an appended Title 22 Engineering
report for coverage under WQ 2016- 0068 -DDW, State Water Resources Control Board Order, Water
Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (General Order) for expanding the reclamation
area by 168 acres and consideration of providing recycled water to five dairies adjacent to the
discharge conveyance canal and percolation pond.

On 12 Aug ust 2016 the City submitted a Report of Waste Discharger ( RWD ) describing a plant
upgrade to disinfected tertiary treatment. The purpose of the upgraded WCP is to comply with the
TSO.

A 28 September 2016 NOA for coverage under the General Order makes the City of Visalia
responsible for administration of the Recycled Water Program for undisinfected secondary effluent
and allows for an expansion of 168 acres of fodder crops and the potential use of up to 2,500 acres of
property adjacent to the City’s wastewater discharge conveyance canal and percolation pond pending
approval of a Nutrient Management Plan and/or Waste Management Plan.

On 14 February 2017, the City submitted a NOI for coverage under the General Order and amended
Title 22 Engineering report for an expanded reclamation area to use disinfected tertiary wastewater.

On 18 January 2017, the City notified Central Valley Water Board staff the membrane bioreactor
(MBR ) and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection syste m processes were put into service and old
processes taken offline.

On 1 September 2017, a State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board), Division of
Drinking Water ( DDW ) letter transmits a DDW memorandum pertaining to the City of Visalia UV
operations plan and spot -check bioassay. The memorandum establishes conditional acceptance of
the 2012 NWRI UV dose equation and 16,000 -hour lamp age factor for the Ozonia Aquaray 3X HO
VLS UV Disinfection System.

On 16 February 2018, DDW staff witnessed UV disinfection system critical alarms testing at the WCP.
The City successfully demonstrated that the critical alarms were functional for its operations. On 21
February 2018, the City submitted a revised final UV Operations Plan to address DDW comments in
the 1 September 2017 DDW letter. On 20 March 2018, the DDW issued a letter documenting its
acceptance of the UV Operations Plan and Completion of Critical Alarms Testing.

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2018-0046 - 2 -
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY


On 22 March 2018 the DDW issued a letter documenting its acceptance of the City of Vi salia final
amendment to the 2011 Title 22 Recycled Water Engineering Report for the WCP.

WCP Upgrade

The WCP was upgraded to a tertiary treatment facility and now consists of two mechanical bar
screens, four grit tanks, five primary clarifiers, four fine screens, four aeration basins, ten membrane
tanks, and two parallel UV channels.

REGULATORY CONSIDERA TIONS

Groundwater

The WCP is in the Consolidated Hydrologic Area (No. 558.10) of the South Valley Floor Hydrologic
Unit, as depicted on hydrologic maps prepared by State Water Resources Control Board in August
1986. Regional groundwater underlying the area is first -encountered at about 145 feet below ground
surface (bgs) and flows to the south southwest; according to the Department of Water Resources
(DWR ) Groundwater Information Center (GIC) Interactive map using dat a from Spring 2017.

The City has a groundwater monitoring network consisting of 18 monitoring wells which include
cluster and individual wells which monitor the upper, unconfined aquifer and lower, confined aquifer.
Fifteen monitoring wells are installed in the upper aquifer and three in the lower. Monitoring wells in
the upper aquifer are screened in two different zones, from 66 -160 feet bgs, and just above the
aquitard at 223 -248 feet bgs. Deep monitoring wells are screened below the aquitard from 267- 303
feet bgs.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Water Quality Objectives

The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition, revised July 2016 (Basin
Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes narrative and numerical water quality objectives,
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the B asin, and incorporates by
reference , plans and policies adopted by the State Wat er Board. The beneficial uses of underlying
groundwater as set forth in the B asin Plan are municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural
supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), water contact
recreation (REC1), and non- contact water recreation (REC2).

The Basin Plan identifies the greatest long -term water quality problem facing the entire Tulare Lake
Basin is increasing salinity in groundwater, a process accelerated due to the intensive use of soil and
water resources by irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan recognizes that degradation is unavoidable
until there is a long- term solution to the salt imbalance. The stakeholder -led Central Valley Salinity
Alternatives for Long- Term Sustainability (CV -SALTS) initiative has been coordinating efforts to
impleme nt new salt and nitrate management strategies. Until then, the Basin Plan establishes several
salt management requirements, including the following limits:

1. The maximum EC of the effluent discharged to land shall not exceed the EC of source water plus
500 umhos/cm. When the source water is from more than one source, the EC shall be a
weighted average of all sources.

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2018-0046 - 3 -
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY


2. Discharges to areas that may recharge to good quality groundwater shall not exceed an EC of
1,000 umhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or a boron content of 1.0 mg/L.

CV-SALTS

The Central Valley Water Board is developing amendments to the Basin Plan to incorporat e new
strategies for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the waters and soils of the Central
Valley as part of the Central Valley Salinity Alternatives for Long -Term Sustainability (CV -SALTS)
initiative. The Salinity Control Program currently being developed would subject dischargers that do
not meet stringent salinity numeric values (700 µS/cm EC as a monthly average to protect the AGR
beneficial use and 900 µS/cm EC as an annual average to protect the MUN beneficial use) to
performance -based salinity requirements, and would require these dischargers to participate in a
basin- wide Prioritization and Optimization S tudy to develop a long- term strategy for addressing
salinity accumulation in the Central Valley.

The level of participation required of dischargers whose discharges do not meet stringent salinity
requirements will vary based on factors such as the amount of salinity in the discharge, local
conditions, and type of discharge. The Board anticipates that the CV -SALTS initiative will result in
regulatory changes that will be implemented through conditional prohibitions and modifications to
many WDRs region- wide, including the WDRs that regulate discharges from the City of Visalia WCP.
More information regarding this regulatory planning process can be found at the following link:
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralvalley/water_issues/salinity/

Antidegradation Policy

State Wat er Board Resolution No. 68- 16, the Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining High
Quality Waters in California ( State Antidegradation Policy ) generally prohibits the Central Valley Water
Board from authorizing activities that will result in the degradation of high -quality groundwater unless it
has been shown that:

a. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state and regional
policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives;

b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial uses;

c. The discharger employs Best Practicable Treatment or Control (BPT C) to minimize
degradation; and

d. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.

This Order establishes terms and conditions to ensure that the authorized discharge does not
unreasonable affect present and anticipated future beneficial uses of groundwater or result in
groundwater quality worse than background or the water quality objectives set forth in the Basin Plan.

This Order is consi stent with the Anti Degradation Policy in that : (a) the Discharge has implemente d
Best Practicable Treatment and Control to minimize degradation; (b) the degradation will not
unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial uses of groundwater, or result in water
quality less than water quality objectives; and (c) the lim ited degradation is of maximum benefit to the
people of the State.
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2018-0046 - 4 -
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY



California Environmental Quality Act

The City of Visalia acted as the lead agency for the project pursuant to California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA ). The City approved the Final Environmental Impact Report ( EIR) in 2013 for and
filed a Notice of Determination (SCH#2010081057) on 3 February 2014 . Mitigation measures were
not related to water quality issues. Acting as a responsible agency pursuant to CEQA, the Central
Valley Water B oard concurs with the conclusion in the Final EIR that the discharge will not have a
significant impact on water quality.

California Code of Regulations , Title 27

Unless the Board finds that the discharge of designated waste is exempt from Title 27 of the California
Code of Regulations, the release of designated waste is subject to full containment requirements.
Here, the discharge is exempt from the requirements of Title 27 pursuant to the sewage and
wastewater exemptions found in Title 27, sections 20090(a) , (b), and (h) .

PROPOSED ORDER

Discharge Prohibitions, Specifications and Provisions

The proposed Order prohibits the discharge of waste to surface waters and to surface water drainage
courses other than described in the findings , and prohibits the cross connection between potable
water and well piping with recycled water piping.

The proposed Order restricts the discharge to a dry weather monthly average daily flow limit of
18 mgd. This Order sets