Existing Facility and Discharge
6. The Mendota WWTF treats domestic wastewater from the City of Mendota and a
nearby Federal Correctional Institution. The City has a population of approximately
11,000 residents and the prison has approximately 1,100 inmates and 300 staff. The
WWTF was originally constructed in 1972 and has been incrementally modified over
the years. The WWTF is located adjacent to the Fresno Slough near the convergence
with the San Joaquin River.
7. S ince 2011, the City has been working to reduce obvious contributions to inflow and
infiltration (I&I ). These efforts have included closing open utility vault covers ,
particularly in low -lying areas subject to storm flooding, and repair of old utility vault
covers potentially subject to upward groundwater intrusion.
8. The WWTF previously consisted of three unlined treatment ponds (Ponds 1
through 3 ) run in series and four percolation/evaporation disposal ponds (Ponds 4
through 7). The disposal ponds have an estimated percolation rate of approximately
0.01 feet per day. The three treatment ponds were used until 2011, when the WWTF
improvements project was completed as described below. From 2011 through 2015,
the Discharger used the abandoned treatment ponds for emergency disposal. The
Discharger was not able to remove the sludge from Ponds 2 and 3 until 2015, at
which point they were designated as disposal ponds. This Order establishes a time schedule to remove sludge from Pond 1.
9. In 2006, the Discharger submitted a Preliminary Engineer’s Report that evaluated
alternative treatment designs to comply with CDO R5- 2002- 0048 and improve the
WWTF’s treatment and hydraulic capacity. Based on the evaluation, the Discharger
proposed a WWT F improvements project that involved decommissioning the old
treatment ponds, relocating and construct ing a new headworks , constructing a larger
treatment pond system further from the Fresno Slough consist ing of aerated primary
treatment ponds and secondary facultative ponds, removing sludge from the decommissioned treatment ponds for use as disposal ponds , rehabilitating existing
disposal ponds to improve percolation rates, and constructing new disposal ponds with better percolation rates .
10. From 2010 through 2012, the Discharger completed construction of the proposed WWTF improvements project as available funding allowed. The project was
completed as discussed below. A site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
a. Construction included two aerated primary treatment ponds, T1 and T2, and two
secondary facultative treatment ponds, F1 and F2. Ponds T1 and F1 are run in series as are ponds T2 and F2. Additional funds were not available to complete the planned construct ion of two additional aerated primary treatment ponds, T3
and T4, and two additional secondary facultative treatment ponds, F3 and F4.
b. To increase hydraulic disposal capacity, the Discharger proposed construct ing
new disposal ponds and drai ning, cleaning , and deepening the existing disposal
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 3
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


ponds to improve percolation rates. In 2006, the Discharger proposed a location
for new disposal ponds further from the river where an identified underlying sand
lens was anticipated to have a higher percolation rate than the existing disposal
ponds. In 2011, t he Discharger constructed three new disposal ponds (Ponds 8
through 10) in the proposed location and to a depth of the sand lens. However,
within four weeks of filling the new disposal ponds with wastewater , the observed
percolation rate f ell from 0.5 feet per day to less than 0.07 feet per day, which has
remained steady. It is unclear whether the percolation rate was affected by
clogging or whether the available void space was simply filled.
c. Efforts to improve the percolation rates of existing disposal Ponds 4 through 7
were not successful during the project timeline due to wet weather conditions ,
funding availability, and project deadlines.
d. In 2012, the Discharger attempted another effort to obtain better percolation by
construct ing disposal Pond 11 in the same sand lens as Ponds 8, 9, and 10, but
Pond 11 also exhibits the same percolation rate of 0.07 feet per day. Currently, an
economically feasible solution to improve the percolation rate does not exist.
11. The flow schematic of the completed WWTF improvement project is shown on
Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
After completing the WWTF improvement project in 2012, the WWTF had an influent
pumping capacity of nearly 2.5 mgd and a treatment capacity of 1.35 mgd. However,
poor percolation of the disposal ponds limited the disposal capacity to 0.86 mgd.
12. From 2010 to 2014, the disposal capacity was not sufficient to handle influent flows ,
which averaged .970 mgd over the five year period and ranged from 0.816 mgd to
1.181 mgd as a monthly average. As a result, the Discharger used unpermitted land
areas for wastewater disposal.
13. In 2015, the Discharger cleaned the sludge out of decommissioned treatment Ponds 1 and 2 for disposal use. The Discharger also began discharging wastewater to the
bermed land area designated for the future construction of treatment ponds T3, T4, F3, and F4. This Order names this area Pond 12. With the addition of disposal Ponds 1, 2, and 12, the WWTF currently has an annual average hydraulic disposal
capacity of 1.28 mgd. This Order requires the Discharger to submit a Pond
Construction Report providing the as -built dimensions for Pond 12.
14. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
18. The Discharger was not able to complete the WWTF improvement project as
proposed due to funding limitations. When funding becomes available the Discharger plans to finish the remaining tasks of the project. These include rehabilitating and
removing the sludge from Pond 1 so that it can be used as a disposal pond,
rehabilitating Pond 6 so that it can be used as a disposal pond, and constructing four
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 5
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


additional unlined treatment ponds, T3, T4, F3, and F4.
19. The Discharger’s water balance shows that t he addit ion of disposal Pond 1 will
increase the annual average hydraulic disposal capacity by 0.03 mgd and the addition
of Pond 6 will increase the disposal capacity by 0.06 mgd. Once both ponds are
completed, the total annual average design capacity will be 1.37 MGD . The projected
2020 average monthly wastewater flow is estimated to be 1.052 mgd. This Order
requires the submittal of a pond construction report prior to using Ponds 1 and 6 for
disposal.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The Mendota community o btains its potable water supply from groundwater supply
wells, which are owned and operated by the Discharger . The original source water
wells were constructed on the west side of the San Joaquin River Bypass and were of
low quality with high turbidity and poor odor and taste quality. The three source water
wells installed in 2004 are located on the east side of the San Joaquin River Bypass
and have proven to provide higher quality water . The following table summarizes the
average annual water quality data from the source water well s as provided in the
RWD.
Constituent Units 2011 2012 2013 2014
Turbidity mg/L n/a n/a n/a 0.15 – 0.42
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm 838 – 931 620 – 800 680 – 800 740 – 830
Flow Weighted
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm 744 638 670 622
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 432 – 554 320 – 463 333 – 494 331 – 475
Chloride mg/L 65 – 91 59 – 85 63 – 93 62 – 95
Iron mg/L ND – 0.05 0.06 – 0.11 0.05 – 0.13 0.07 – 0.15
Manganese µg/L 0.02 – 0.03 0.02 – 0.03 0.02 – 0.03 0.02 – 0.06
Abbreviations : n/a- = Data not available; ND= non-detected
21. The WWTF is relatively level and as stated in the Discharger’s 2006 Preliminary Engineering Report: “Mendota lies on the western slope of the San Joaquin Valley, at an elevation of approximately 170 feet. The closest irregularly formed land is the Coastal Range about 16 miles to the west. From the mountain range a gentle slope beginning at an elevation of about 475 feet extends eastward until the axial center of the valley is reached at the Fresno Slough just east of the City. Unlike the soils throughout most of the western part of Fresno County, the soils within the Mendota area are rather poor for most crops. Most of the soil within the area falls in a class which includes recent alluvial fan and flood plain soils, along with basin rim soils. ”
The Report also states that the soils have a high alkali content that can be termed as "White Alkali", meaning that the sodium present in the soil is predominantly in the form of free salts
22. The 2015 RWD further states that “[v]irtually all the undeveloped area of the WWTF
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 6
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


parcel has a relatively -impermeable [layer] of silty -clays and clays at the surface. This
layer varies in thickness from several feet to well over 20 feet. The silty clays are
underlain by discontinuous lenses of coarse sand, also of varying thickness. These sands themselves are underlain by thicker clay layers and then alternating layers of sands, silts and clays. The net effect is that ponds located in any of the fine- grained
silty-clay layers do not provide substantial percolation rates.”
23. Based on the 18 February 2009 FEMA flood insurance map, the WWTF is partially
located within the 100 -year flood zone with a depth of 2 feet. The WWTF area
excluded from the flood zone appears to be the location of the bermed ponds. The RWD provides design pl ans for each of the ponds that show that the berms are 4.5 to
9.7 feet high. Therefore, the WWTF as constructed after the improvements project is not expected to be within the 100 -year flood zone.
24. The average annual precipitation, 100 year return annual precipitation, annual evapotranspiration, and annual pan evaporation for the site is reported to be
8.05 inches , 12.24 inches, 45.75 inches , and 79.22 inches, respectively .
25. Surrounding land use is primarily agricultural. Irrigation water is either supplied by
groundwater wells or a network of surface water canals supplied by the San Joaquin
River or the Fresno Slough. Agricultural irrigation has a considerable influence on groundwater movement and quality. The types of crops grown and irrigation water
quality information w ere not provided in the RWD.
Groundwater Conditions
26. The Discharger began monitoring groundwater monitoring wells MW -1 through MW -7
in 2002. The Discharger’s 2011 Hydrogeologic Evaluation Report Volume II:
Groundwater Characterization (Groundwater Characterization Report) states: “During
installation of […] groundwater monitoring wells [MW-1 through MW -7], the lithology
beneath the WWTP was logged. The uppermost soils were comprised of stiff olive gray clay and silty clay from land surface to a depth of seven (7) to eighteen (18) feet below ground surface (bgs). The clay is characterized by large desiccation cracks extending several feet below land surface. Beneath these clay soils, fine to medium grained sands of primarily granitic origin were encountered to completion depths of the monitoring wells at 45 to 60 feet bgs. ”
27. To better characterize background groundwater, the Discharger expanded t he
monitoring well network by installing MW-8 through MW -13, which were first
monitored in September 2007. In 2007, MW -6 was destroyed because it required
retrofit and casing extension. MW -8 was installed as a replacement to MW -6. The
monitoring well installation locations are indicated on Attachment B. The Discharger’s
Groundwater Characterization Report states: “the lithology of the boreholes [logged during] installation of […] groundwater monitoring wells [MW -8 through MW -13]
generally confirmed the original findings, including identification of a four to twenty -two
foot thick sandy [interval] and/or silty clay cap overlying interbedded lenses of poorly and well graded sands, present to depths of approximately 45 feet bgs.”
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 7
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


28. Groundwater monitoring data from 2008 through 2014 indicate that the depth to
shallow groundwater ranged from 25.4 to 34.5 feet below ground surface as an
annual average. Monitoring data from MW -1 through MW -7 indicated that the
groundwater flow direction varied at the site with flow directions trending towards the
south during the wet winter/spring and towards the north/northeast during the dry
summer/fall monitoring events. The expansion of the monitoring network provided evidence that groundwater flow is more consistently towards a southerly direction, with a localized, seasonal, deviation most notable in the northern portion of the facility and near the Fresno Slough. The observed variation in flow direction is likely
attributed in part to seasonal pumping of agricultural water wells located north of the
project area, including wells located just north and east of MW -3.
29. From 2010 through 2014 groundwater generally flowed south to southwest with a
localized gradient around the wastewater treatment and disposal ponds that flow ed
east or north east. The horizontal flow gradient ranged from 0.00084 to 0.0037.
30. The Discharger’s Grou ndwater Characterization Report proposed background and
compliance groundwater monitoring wells based on major ion chemistry and an
analysis of stable isotopes . Groundwater monitoring wells MW-2, MW -5, MW -9,
MW-10, MW -11, MW -12, and MW -13 were proposed as background monitoring wells
and groundwater monitoring wells MW-1, MW -3, MW -4, MW -7, and MW -8 were
proposed as compliance monitoring wells. The report presented a statistical analysis
of ten constituents: EC, TDS, nitrate as N, boron, arsenic, iron, manganese, sodium,
chloride, and sulfate. The analysis results indicated that manganese was the only
constituent to statistically exceed background groundwater quality or the associated water quality goal. The statistical exceedance was found in compliance well MW -4.
31. The following table provides a summary of recent groundwater quality based on the background and compliance monitoring wells proposed in the Groundwater
Characterization Report .
Constituent 2014 Yearly Average (Range of Yearly Averages from 2008 through 2013)
Proposed Background 1 Proposed Compliance 2
Nitrate -N (mg/L) <0.5 (all years) <0.5 (all years)
EC (µmhos/cm) 1,950 (1,910 – 2,220) 1,970 (1,890 – 3,350)
TDS (mg/L) 1,320 (1,220 – 1,620) 1,200 (1,320 – 1,700)
Chloride (mg/L) 280 (260 – 320) 280 (320 – 490)
Sulfate (mg/L) 450 (480 – 590) 340 (340 – 500)
Iron (mg/L) 13.0 (11.5 – 17.5) 4.9 (0.7 – 6.5)
Manganese (mg/L) 1.2 (1.1 – 1.4) 0.7 (0.6 – 1.4)
1 The Groundwater Characterization Report identified MW-2, MW -5, MW -9, MW -10, MW -11, MW -12, and MW -13
as background monitoring wells .
2 The Groundwater Characterization Report identified MW-1, MW -3, MW -4, MW -7, and MW -8 as compliance
monitoring wells.
32. Groundwater monitoring data indicate that groundwater quality is highly spatially
variable, generally poor, and that any impacts from the WWTF discharge are not
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 8
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


discernible from other factors , such as agricultural impact s to groundwater quality or
influence from the Fresno Slough . The above table provides an indication of
groundwater quality at the WWTF, however, because of the groundwater flow
direction variability, the proposed background monitoring wells are at times
downgradient of t he discharge and do not provide a consistent represent ation of
background groundwater quality.
33. Due to the variability of the groundwater flow direction, it is not practical to use an
interwell analysis approach to define background groundwater quality for each
constituent and to determine whether the discharge has caused degradation by
compari ng compliance well monitoring data to the defined background value.
Changes in groundwater quality associated with the discharge w ill be most discernible
using an intrawell analysis approach on compliance wells that are predominately
influenced by the discharge.
34. It is appropriate to require groundwater monitoring only for those monitoring wells
where impacts from the WWTF discharge or other influential factors are identifiable.
From the existing monitoring well network, monitoring wells MW -1, MW -4, MW -5,
MW-7, and MW -8 are in locations expected to be representative of potential WWTF
discharge impacts to groundwater quality . MW-5 sample data prior to January 2015
represents pre-discharge data prior to disposal to Pond 12.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
35. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition, revised
January 2015 (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of
the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the State Water Board. Pursuant to California Water Code section13263(a), waste discharge requirements must implement the Basin Plan.
36. The WWTF is in Detailed Analysis Unit (DAU) No. 235 within the Delta- Mendota
Basin hydrologic unit. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying as
municipal and domestic supply (MUN) , agricultural supply (AGR) , industrial service
supply (IND) , industrial process supply (PRO), non- contact water recreation ( REC-2 ),
and wildlife habitat (WILD) .
37. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater. It also sets forth a numeric objective for total coliform organisms.
38. The Basin Plan identifies the greatest long- term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake
Basin as the increase in salinity in groundwater, which has accelerated due to the
intensive use of soil and water resources by irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan establishes several salt management requirements, including:
a. The incremental increase in salts from use and treatment must be controlled to the extent possible. The maximum electrical conductivity (EC) in the discharge
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 9
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


shall not exceed the EC of the source water plus 500 umhos/cm. When the source
water is from more than one source, the EC shall be a weighted average of all sources.
b. Discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwater shall not exceed an EC of 1,000 umhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or a boron content of 1.0 mg/L.
39. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objective for bacteria requires that the most probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven- day period shall be
less than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater.
40. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, at a minimum, require waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the MCLs specified in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 22). The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.
41. The narrative toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in human, animal, plant, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses.
42. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site- specific evaluation of
those constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses. The Basin Plan states that when compliance with a narrative objective is required to
protect specific beneficial uses, the Central Valley Water Board will, on a case- by-
case basis, adopt numerical limitations in order to implement the narrative objective.
43. In the absence of specific numerical water quality limits, the Basin Plan methodology
is to consider any relevant published criteria. General salt tolerance guidelines, such as Water Quality for Agriculture by Ayers and Westcot and similar references indicate
that yield reductions in nearly all crops are not evident when irrigation water has an EC less than 700 μmhos/cm. There is, however, an eight - to ten -fold range in salt
tolerance for agricultural crops and the appropriate salinity values to protect agriculture in the Central Valley are considered on a case- by-case basis. It is
possible to achieve full yield potential with waters having EC up to 3,000 μmhos/cm if the proper leaching fraction is provided to maintain soil salinity within the tolerance of the crop.
Antidegradation Analysis
44. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68- 16 (“Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the State”) (hereafter Resolution 68- 16) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.
b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 10
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


beneficial uses.
c. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state
and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives, and
d. The discharger employs best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize degradation.
45. Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents associated with discharges from a municipal wastewater utility, after effective source control, treatment, and control measures are implemented, is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state. The technology, energy, water recycling, and waste management advantages of municipal utility service far exceed any benefits derived from reliance on numerous, concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less. The economic prosperity of valley communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people of the State, and provides sufficient justification for allowing the limited groundwater degradation that may occur pursuant to this Order.
46. The Discharger has been monitoring groundwater quality at the site since 2002 .
Based on the data available, it is not possible to determine pre- 1968 groundwater
quality. Therefore, determination of compliance with Resolution 68-16 for this facility
must be based on existing background groundwater quality.
47. Pre-discharge groundwater monitoring data does not exist for this facility and reliable
background monitoring wells were not identified within the monitoring well network .
Therefore, for the purposes of comparison, monitoring wells MW -9 and MW-10 were
identified to have the least impact from the WWTF discharge and provide a reasonable indication of potential background groundwater quality.
48. Constituents of concern that have the potential to degrade groundwater include salts
(primarily EC, sodium, and chloride), nutrients , sulfate, manganese, and iron as
discussed below .
Constituent Average Concentrations
Effluent Background
Wells 1 Compliance
Wells 2 Potential Water
Quality Objective
EC (µmhos/cm) 1,440 7 3,750 2,090 700 3 to 2,200 4
TDS (mg/L) 1,150 8 2,610 1,280 450 3 to 1,500 4
Chloride (mg/L) 300 8 550 340 106 3 - 600 4
Nitrate as N (mg/L) 7.3 8 <0.2 <0.2 10 5
Sulfate (mg/L) 250 8 1,060 370 250 to 600 4
Dissolved
Manganese (mg/L) 0.03 8 1.4 1.0 0.050 6
Dissolved Iron (mg/L) 0.34 8 12.0 5.4 0.300 6
1 MW-9 and MW-10 were determined to provide the best approximation of background groundwater quality.
Average concentrations calculated by grouping quarterly d ata collected from 2007 through 2014.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 11
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


2 Compiled from MW-1, MW -4, MW -5, MW -7, and MW -8 data collected 2007 through 2014.
3 Lowest agricultural water quality goal.
4 Short -term Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level .
5 Primary Maximum Contaminant Level.
6 Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level.
7 Effluent data from facultative ponds collected weekly from January 2013 through October 2015.
8 Disposal Pond 10 data collected quarterly from 2012 through 3rd quarter 2014.
a. Salin ity (EC, TDS, and chloride) . The average EC and TDS concentration in the
background wells substantially exceed the respective short -term Secondary
Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) water quality objectives. The average
background chloride concentration nearly exceeds the upper level of the potential
water quality objective range, which is set at the short -term Secondary MCL.
For all three salinity constituents, the average background concentration exceeds
the average effluent and compliance well salinity concentrations. The annual
average background and compliance well salinity concentrations have remained
relatively stable since 2008, while the annual average effluent EC concentration has
decreased from 2,440 µmhos/cm in 2009 to 1,180 µmhos/cm in 2015. Therefore, the effluent quality does not appear to pose a threat of further degrading
groundw ater quality.
Despite the Discharger ’s efforts to improve effluent quality, the discharge has not
been able to meet the Basin Plan maximum effluent limit for EC of 1,000 µmhos/cm.
The Discharger submitted an application, dated 10 May 2016, for an exception from
water quality objectives related to salinity pursuant to Chapter IV, Exception to
Discharge Requirements Related to the Implementation of Water Quality Objectives
for Salinity , paragraph 8 of the Basin Plan. The application provided justification as
to why the exception would be necessary, a description of salinity reduction
measures that the Discharger has undertaken, and an evaluation of whether water conservation has had an impact on effluent salinity. The Discharger has committed to becom ing a member of the Central Valley Clean Water Association (CVCWA) ,
and will thus satisfy the requirement in Resolution R5 -2014- 0074 requiring active
participation in the Central Valley Salinity Alternative for Long- term Sustainability
(CV-SALTS) program to qualify for an exception.
1 Therefore, this Order grants a 10-
year exception to the EC limit specified in the Basin Plan, and establishes an interim
performance- based EC effluent limit. Pursuant to the exception requirements, the
Discharger is expected to participate in CV -SALTS’ evaluat ion of potential Basin
Plan amendment s related to the establishme nt of salinity management plans for the
Central Valley region.
A performance- based EC effluent limit was determined using effluent sample data
from January 2011 through October 2015 (230 samples). To simulate the
variability of future annual averages from monthly sampling, twelve random samples were picked from the 230 samples to calculate a random annual average.

1 Should the Discharger fail to actively participate in CV-SALTS at any point while this permit is in effect, the
Board may reopen and reconsider the applicability of Basin Plan salinity limitations that would otherwise be
applicable to this discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 12
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Random sampling was repeated 50,000 times to create a normal distribution of
potential future annual averages. The value corresponding to the 99th percentile of
the normal distribution was chosen as the limit. Therefore, as long as the effluent EC concentration does not significantly increase, 99% of all future annual
averages will be below the limit. This method uses a nonparametric approach to
determine the 99% one- sided upper prediction limit of the mean that has an order
of twelve
.
b. Nitrate. For nutrients such as nitrate, the potential for degradation depends not only
on the quality of the treated effluent, but the ability of the vadose zone below the effluent disposal ponds to provide an environment conducive to nitrification and denitrificat ion to convert the effluent nitrogen to nitrate and the nitrate to nitrogen gas
before it reaches the water table. The effluent nitrate nitrogen concentration, as indicated from samples from Pond 10, averaged 7.3 mg/L and the groundwater
concentration in the background and compliance wells are essentially non-
detectable. The nitrate effluent quality of the newly constructed WWTF is expected to remain the same. Therefore, the discharge is not likely to degrade groundwater
quality and nitrate effluent limi t is not required to protect groundwater quality.
c. Sulfate. The average concentration of sulfate in the effluent (250 mg/L) is less than
the compliance monitoring wells (370 mg/L) , which is less than the background
monitoring wells (1,060 mg/L) and the short -term Secondary Maximum Contaminant
Level of 600 mg/L. Therefore, sulfate is not considered to be a constituent of
concern that has the potential to cause groundwater degradation.
d. Iron and Manganese. For both constituents, the average dissolved conc entration in
the compliance wells is less than the background wells and greater than the
Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level. Because the dissolved concentrations in
background groundwater exceed water quality objectives, the Basin Plan’s
Controllable Factors Policy is applicable. The Controllable Factors Policy does not allow controllable factors, such as a discharge of waste, to cause further degradation of water quality where other uncontrollable factors have already caused exceedance of a water quality objective.
While the biosolids in the decommissioned treatment ponds Pond 2 and Pond 3
were removed in 2015, the remaining biosolids in Pond 1 have the potential to
contribute to reducing conditions that may mobilize iron and manganese. This Order prohibits any further degradation of groundwater quality in compliance with the Controllable Factors Policy and requires the Discharger to submit a workplan that proposes a schedule to remove the sludge from Pond 1.
49. This Order establishes effluent and groundwater limitations for the WWTF that will not
unreasonably threaten present and anticipated beneficial uses or result in groundwater quality that exceeds water quality objectives set forth in the Basin Plan.
For EC, TDS, chloride, nitrate, sulfate, iron, and manganese, current groundwater
monitoring data indicates that groundwater has not been degraded beyond background groundwater quality by the previous discharge and that the expanded
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 13
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


discharge does not pose a threat of degradation in the future. The requirements of
this Order do not allow any degradation to occur.
50. The Discharger provides treatment and control of the discharge that has incorporated:
a. Installing new municipal supply wells that provide source water better quality
and reduce salinity and hardness ;
b. Conducting a resident outreach salinity education program;
c. Repairing of old manholes potentially subject to upward groundwater intrusion;
d. Decommissioning the old treatment ponds;
e. Constructing new wastewater treatment ponds t hat improve treatment capacity
and efficiency ; and
f. Constructing new disposal ponds in an attempt to improve percolation rates
and disposal capacity.
Although the Discharger has implemented several salinity reduction measures, the
Discharger’s salinity management plan has not been submitted. Therefore, this Order requires the Discharger to submit a Salinity Management Plan. These efforts
are considered best practicable treatment or control at this time .
Other Regulatory Considerations
51. In compliance with Water Code section 106.3, it is the policy of the State of California
that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and accessible water
adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitary purposes. This order promotes that policy by requiring discharges to meet maximum contaminant levels
designed to protect human health and ensure that water is safe for domestic use.
52. Based on the threat and complexity of the discharge, the facility is determined to be
classified as 3B as defined below:
a. Category 3 threat to water quality : “Those discharges of waste that could degrade
water quality without violating water quality objectives, or could cause a minor
impairment of designated beneficial uses as compared with Category 1 and
Category 2. ”
b. Category B complexity, defined as : “Any discharger not included [as Category A]
that has physical, chemical, or biological treatment systems (except for septic systems with subsurface disposal) or any Class 2 or Class 3 waste management units.”
53. Title 27 of the California Code of Regulation s (hereafter Title 27) contains regulatory
requirements for the treatment, storage, processing, and disposal of solid waste. However, Title 27 exempts certain activities from its provisions. Discharges regulated by this Order are exempt from Title 27 pursuant to provisions that exempt domestic sewage, wastewater, and reuse. Title 27, section 20090 state s in part :
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 14
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


The following activities shall be exempt from the SWRCB -promulgated provisions of
this subdivision, so long as the activity meets, and continues to meet, all
preconditions listed:
 (a) Sewage - Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated
by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of this code, or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal wastewater
treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid waste from wastewater
treatment facilities shall be discharged only in accordance with the applicable SWRCB -promulgated provisions of this division.
 (b) Wastewater - Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leachfields if the following
conditions are met:

(1) the applicable RWQCB has issued WDRs, reclamation requirements, or
waived such issuance;

(2) the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan;
and

(3) the wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste.
54. The discharge authorized herein (except for the discharge of residual sludge and solid
waste), and the treatment and storage facilities associated with the discharge, are
exempt from the requirements of Title 27 as follows:
a. Treatment ponds T1, T2, F1, and F2 are exempt pursuant to Title 27, section 20090(a) because they are treatment and storage facilities associated with a municipal domestic wastewater treatment plant.
b. Pond 1 through Pond 12 are exempt pursuant to Title 27, section 20090(b)
because they are wastewater percolation ponds and:
i. The Central Valley Water Board is issuing WDRs.
ii. The discharge is in compliance with the Basin Plan, and;
iii. The treated effluent discharged to the ponds does not need to be managed as hazardous waste.
55. The U.S. EPA published Statistical Analysis of Groundwater Monitoring Data at
RCRA Facilities, Unified Guidance (hereafter “Unified Guidance”) in 2009. As stated
in the Unified Guidance, the document:
…is tailored to the context of the RCRA groundwater monitoring regulations …
[however, t]here are enough commonalities with other regulatory groundwater
monitoring programs … to allow for more general use of the tests and methods in the Unified Guidance… Groundwater detection monitoring involves either a
comparison between different monitoring stations … or a contrast between past
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 15
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


and present data within a given station… The Unified Guidance also details
methods to compare background data against measurements from regulatory compliance points … [as well as] techniques for comparing datasets against fixed
numerical standards … [such as those] encountered in many regulatory
programs.
The statistical data analysis methods in the Unified Guidance are appropriate for
determining whether the discharge complies with Groundwater Limitations of this
Order.
56. The State Water Board adopted Order 2014- 0057- DWQ (NPDES General Permit
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge requirements for discharges of storm water associated with industr ial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all
affected industrial dischargers. The wastewater treatment facility has a design capacity of more than 1.0 MGD, but all storm water from the WWTF is collected and disposed of onsite. The Disc harger is therefore not required to obtain coverage
under NPDES General Permit CAS000001.
57. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems General Order 2006- 0003- DWQ (the
General Order). The General Order requires all public agencies that own or operate sanitary sewer systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the Order. The Discharger’s collection system exceeds one mile in length and the Discharger is enrolled under the General Order.
58. Water Code section 13267(b) (1) states:
In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may
require that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having
discharged or discharging, or w ho proposes to discharge waste within its region …
shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the board requires. The burden, including costs of these reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the
person with a written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall
identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to provide the reports .
The technical reports required by this Order and the attached Monitoring and
Reporting Program R5-2016- 0054 are necessary to ensure compliance with these
waste discharge requirements. The Discharger owns and operates the facility that discharges the waste subject to this Order.
59. The California Department of Water Resources sets standards for the construction
and destruction of groundwater wells (hereafter DWR Well Standards), as described in California Well Standards Bulletin 74- 90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards:
State of California Bulletin 7 4-81 (December 1981). These standards, and any more
stringent standards adopted by the state or county pursuant to Water Code section
13801, apply to all monitoring wells used to monitor the impacts of wastewater storage or dis posal governed by this Order.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 16
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


60. A Mitigated Negative Declaration was certified by the City of Mendota on
11 December 2007 in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) (Pub. Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.). The Mitigated Negative
Declaration describes the project as the expansion of the existing WWTP to include
headwork's, pump station, 30 inch sewer interceptor pipeline, effluent disposal ponds,
oxidation t reatment lagoons, facultative treatment lagoons, and renovation of the
existing treatment plant.
61. The Mitigated Negative Declaration evaluated the potential impacts to groundwater
quality and found that the discharge will not have an impact to water quality .
Compliance with this Order will avoid impacts to water quality.
62. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has prom ulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage
Sludge, which establishes management criteria for protection of ground and surface
waters, sets application rates for heavy metals, and establishes stabilization and
disinfection criteria.
63. The Central Valley Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines
in establishing this Order, but the Central Valley Water Board is not the implementing
agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The Discharger may have separate and/or
additional compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to the EPA.
64. The Central Valley Water Board finds that the Discharger will satisfy the requirements
of Resolution R5- 2014- 0074, justifying a Limited- Term Exception from Basin Plan
Provisions and Water Quality Objectives for Groundwater related to salinity
constituents .
65. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice
66. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached
Information Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the following conditions of discharge.
67. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the
Central Valley Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided an opportunity to submit written comments and an opportunity for a public hearing.
68. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public
hearing.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that WDR Order 91- 192 and CDO R5- 2002- 0048 are rescinded
except for purposes of enforcement. Pursuant to Water Code sections 13263 and 13267,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 17
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


the City of Mendota, its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall
comply with the following:

A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses
is prohibited.
2. Discharge of hazardous wastes, as that term is defined in California Code
of Regulations, title 22, section 66261.1 et seq., is prohibited.
3. Bypass around, or overflow from, the wastewater treatment pond(s) is
prohibited, e xcept as allowed by Standard Provision E.2 of the Standard
Provisions and Repor ting Require ments for Waste Discharge
Requirements.
4. Discharge of waste at a location or in a manner different from that
described in the Findings is prohibited.
5. The Discharger shall not allow toxic substances to be discharged into the
wastewater treatment system such that biological treatment mechanisms are disrupted.
B. Flow Limitations
1. Effectively immediately , influent flows to the WWTF shall not exceed the following
limits:
Influent Flow Measurement Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 468 MG
Average Dry Weather Flow 2 1.28 MGD
1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow for the months of August through October, inclusive, divided by
92 days.
2. Effective on the date of Executive Officer approval of each successive
Wastewater Treatment Disposal Pond Completion Report submitted pursuant to
Provision G.1.f , influent flows shall not exceed the specified limits as indicated in
the following table. Approval is dependent on submittal of a water balance capacity analysis demonstrating that the as -built hydraulic capacity of the WWTF is
consistent with the flow limits.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 18
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


 Flow Limit
Influent Flow Measurement Pond 3
Completion Pond 6
Completion Pond 3 & 6
Completion
Total Annual Flow 1 489 MG 478 MG 499 MG
Average Dry Weather Flow 2 1.34 MGD 1.31 MGD 1.37 MGD
1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow for the months of August through October, inclusive, divided by
92 days.
C. Effluent Limitations
1. Effective immediately , effluent discharged to the disposal evaporation and
percolation ponds shall not exceed the following limits:
Constituent Units Limit Basis of Compliance
Determination
BOD 5 1 mg/L 40 Monthly average
BOD 5 1 mg/L 80 Monthly maximum
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm 1,680 Flow Weighted Annual Average
1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20˚C.
2. Effective 1 July 2026, effluent discharged to the disposal evaporation and
percolation ponds shall not exceed the f ollowing limits:
Constituent Units Limit Basis of Compliance
Determination
BOD 5 1 mg/L 40 Monthly average
BOD 5 1 mg/L 80 Monthly maximum
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm Basin Plan 2 Annual Average 3
1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20˚C.
2 As specified in the most current revision of the Basin Plan.
3 Compliance shall be based on the flow weighted annual average unless otherwise specified in
the Basin Plan.
D. Discharge Specifications
1. No waste constituent shall be rel eased, discharged, or placed w here it will
cause a violation of the Groundwat er Limitations of this Order.
2. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal shall not cause pollution or a
nuisance as defined by Water Code section 13050.
3. The discharge shall remain within the permitted waste
treatment/containment structures.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 19
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


4. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to optimize the
quality of the discharge.
5. All conve yance, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be
designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent inundati on or
washout due to floods with a 100- year return frequency.
6. Public contact with wastewater at the WWTF shall be prevented through
such means as fences, s igns, or acceptable al ternatives.
7. Objectionable odors shall not be perceivab le beyond the limits of the
WWTF property at an intensity that creates or thr eatens to create nuisance
conditions.
8. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification D.7, the
dissol ved oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater
treatment or storage pond shall not be less than 1.0 mg/L for three
consecutive sampling events. If the DO in any single pond is below 1.0
mg/L for three consecutive sampling events, the Discharger shall report the findings to the Regional Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall
include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days .
9. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect
the integrity of containment dams and berms and prev ent overtopping
and/or structural failure. Unless a California- registered civil engineer
certifies (based on design, construction, and conditions of operation and
maintenance) that less freeboard is adequate, the operating freeboard in
any pond shall never be less than two feet (measured vertically from the
lowest possible point of overflow). As a means of management and to discern compliance with this requirement, the Discharger shall install and maintain in each pond a permanent staff gauge with calibration marks that
clearly show the water level at design capacity and enable determination of available operational freeboard.
10. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall
have suffic ient capac ity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow,
design sea sonal precipi tation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
winter while ensuring compliance with all requirements of this Order.
Design seasonal prec ipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation
using a return period of 100 years, distributed mont hly in accordance with
historical rainfall patterns.
11. On or about 1 October of each year, available capacity shall at least equal
the volume nec essary to comply with Discharge Specifications D.9 and
D.10.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 20
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


12. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent
breeding of mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small
coves and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water
surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through cont rol of water depth, harvesting,
or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
d. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding as needed
to supplement the above measures.
13. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal berms that
separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall be designed and constructed under the super vision of a California Registered Civil Engineer.
14. Wastewater contained in any unlined pond shall not have a pH less than 6.0 or
greater than 10.0.
15. The Discharger shall monitor sludge accumulation in the wastewater
treatment/storage ponds at least every five years beginning in 2020, and shall
periodically remove sludge as necessary to maintain adequate storage capacity. Specifically, if the estimated volume of sludge in the reservoir exceeds ten percent
of the permitted reservoir capacity, the Discharger shall complete sludge cleanout within 24 months after the date of the estimate.
E. Groundwater Limitations
Release of waste constituents from any portion of the WWTF shall not cause
groundwater to:
1. Contain constituents in concentrations statistically greater than current background
groundwater quality or that exceed either the Primary or Secondary MCLs
established in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, whichever is greater.
2. Exceed a total coliform organism level of 2.2 MPN/100 mL over any seven- day
period.
3. Exceed nitrate (as nitrogen) concentrations of 10 mg/L.
4. Contain taste or odor -producing constituents, toxic substances, or any other
constituents in concentrations that cause nuisance or adversely affect beneficial uses.
Compliance with these limitations shall be determined annually as specified in the
Monitoring and Reporting Program using approved statistical methods.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 21
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


F. Solids Disposal Specifications
Sludge, as used in this document, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues
removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that will not be subject to further treatment at the WWTF .
Biosolids refers to sludge that has been treated and tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially used as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation activities pursuant to federal and state regulations .
1. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, ponds, and clarifiers as needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
2. Any handling and storage of residual sludge, solid waste, and biosolids at the WWTF shall be temporary (i.e., no longer than six months) and controlled and
contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or concentration that will violate the groundwater limitations of this Order.
3. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27, division 2.
Removal for further treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites (i.e., landfills, WWTF s, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in accordance with
valid waste discharge requirements issued by a Regional Water Board will satisfy this specification.
4. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste discharge requirements issued by a regional water board or the State Water Board except in cases where a local (e.g., county) program has been authorized by a regional water board. In most cases, this will mean the General Biosolids Order (State Water Resources Control Board Water Quality Order 2004- 12-DWQ, “General
Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land Reclamation Activities”). For a biosolids use project to be covered by Order 2004- 12-DWQ , the
Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a Notice of Applicability for each project.
5. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self -implementing federal
regulations of 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 503, which are subject to
enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the Central Valley Water Board. If during the life of this Order, the State accepts primacy for implementation of part 503, the Central
Valley Water Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
6. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported in writing to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 22
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


G. Provisions
1. The following reports shall be submitted pursuant to Water Code section 13267
and shall be prepared as described in Provision G.4:
a. By 1 October 2016, the Discharger shall submit a Pond Construction Report
for Pond 12. The report shall include final as -built dimensions including pond
width, length, depth, freeboard, berm height, berm slope, and volume capacity.
b. By 1 October 2016 , the Discharger shall submit a Groundwater Limitations
Compliance Assessment Pl an. The Plan shall propose and justify the values to
be used to determine “current groundwater quality” (as defined in Groundwater Limitations E.1) for each of the compliance wells listed in the Monitoring and
Reporting Program (MRP). In addition, the plan shall propose and justify the
statistical methods that will be used to evaluate compliance with the
Groundwater Limitation of this Order for the compliance wells and constituents specified in the MRP. Compliance shall be determined using appropriate statistical methods that have been selected based on site- specific information
and the U.S. EPA Unified Guidance document cited in Finding 55 of this Order.
The report shall explain and justify the selection of the appropriate statistical methods.
c. By 1 November 2016 , the Discharger shall submit a Pond Retrofit Workplan
for Pond 1 and Pond 6. The workplan shall provide a schedule to remove
sludge from Pond 1 prior to 1 January 2019. The workplan shall also include
planned dimensions for each pond and describe the necessary work to be
completed so that Pond 1 and Pond 6 will be fully functional and ready to
receive wastewater in compliance with the requirements of this Order.
d. By 1 July 2017, the Discharger shall submit a Salinity Management Plan that
describes completed and planned salinity minimization efforts. At a minimum,
the plan shall meet the following requirements outlined in Water Code Section
13263.3(d)(3):
i. An estimate of all of the sources of pollutants contributing, or potentially contributing, to the loadings of salinity in the treatment plant influent including water supply, water softeners, and other residential, commercial and industrial salinity sources.
ii. An analysis of the methods that have been or could be used to prevent the discharge of salinity into the facility, including prohibiting the installation of new self-regenerating residential water softeners, application of local limits
to industrial or commercial dischargers regarding pollution prevention techniques, public education and outreach, or other innovative and alternative approaches to reduce discharges of the pollutant to the facility.
The analysis shall also identify sources, or potential sources, not within the ability or authority of the Discharger to control.
iii. An estimate of salinity load reductions that may be identified through the methods identified in W ater Code Section 13263.3(d)(3)(ii).
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 23
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


iv. A plan for monitoring the results of the salinity pollution prevention
program.
v. A description of the tasks, costs, and time that have been required or will
be required to investigate and implement various elements in the salinity pollution prevention plan.
vi. A statement of the Discharger's salinity pollution prevention goals and strategies, including priorities for short -term and long- term action, and a
description of the Discharger's intended pollution prevention activities for the immediate future.
vii. A description of the Discharger's existing salinity pollution prevention programs.
viii. An analysis, to the extent feasible, of any adverse environmental impacts, including cross -media impacts or substitute chemicals that may result from
the implementation of the pollution prevention program.
ix. An analysis, to the extent feasible, of the costs and benefits that may be incurred to implement the pollution prevention program.
x. Progress to date in reducing the concentration and/or mass of salinity in
the discharge.
Implementation progress of the plan shall be reported each year in the Annual
Monitoring Report required pursuant to Monitoring and Reporting Program
R5-2016- 0054.
e. By 1 February 2019, the Discharger shall submit a Sludge Removal Report for
Pond 1. The report shall describe implementation of the approved workplan, provide results of any analyses performed to characterize soil/sludge removed from the pond, and describe the fate of the removed materials. If the work
deviates from the approved workplan, the report shall explain and justify the
deviations.
f. Upon completion of retrofitting Pond 1 or Pond 6 and at least 12 0 days prior
to 1) discharging to either pond, and 2) i ncreasing influent flow, the Discharger
shall s ubmit a Wastewater Disposal P ond Construction and Completion report.
If discharge to the ponds will begin at the same time, then only one report describing both ponds needs to be submitted. The report s shall certify that
pond construction is complete, fully functional, and ready to receive wastewater in compliance with the requirements of this Order. The report shall include final as-built dimensions including pond width, length, depth, freeboard, berm
height, berm slope, and volume capacity. The report shall include a water
balance model that provides the following hydraulic capacity information:
i. Average daily dry weather flow for the months of July thr ough September,
inclusive;
ii. Maximum monthly average flow based on a reasonable allowance for sewer system I/I during the 100-ye ar, 365- day precipitation event;
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 24
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


iii. Total annual flow volume; and
include documentation of, and technical support for, all data inputs used with
consider ation of at least the f ollowing :
iv. The as -built geometry of all ponds;
v. A minimum of two feet of freeboard in each pond at all times;
vi. Historical local pan evaporation data (monthly average values) used to estimate pond evaporation rates;
vii. Local precipitation data (for the 100- year 365- day event distributed in
accordance with mean monthly precipitation patterns) applied as direct precipitation onto all ponds;
viii. Proposed wastewater generation rates based on historical flows and any new developments distributed monthly in accordance with expected
seasonal variations;
ix. Estimated I/I flows for the 100- year 365- day event based on historical
flows, new development, and age and type of sewer pipes; and
x. Projected long- term percolation rates of the ponds including consideration
of solids plugging effects of solids plugging on all ponds.
2. At least 180 days prior to any sludge removal and disposal, the Discharger shall
submit a Sludge Cleanout Plan. The plan shall include a detailed plan for sludge
removal, drying, and disposal. The plan shall specifically describe the phasing of the project, measures to be used to control runoff or percolate from the sludge as it
is drying, and a schedule that shows how all dried biosolids will be removed from
the site prior to the onset of the rainy season (1 Octo ber). If the Discharger
proposes to land apply biosolids at the effluent recycling site, the report shall include a Report of Waste Discharge and filing fee to apply for separate waste
discharge requirements.
3. A discharger whose waste flow has been increasing, or is projected to increase, shall estimate when flows will reach hydraulic and treatment capacities of its treatment, collection, and disposal facilities. The projections shall be made in January, based on the last three years' average dry weather flows, peak wet weather flows and total annual flows, as appropriate. When any projection shows that capacity of any part of the facilities may be exceeded in four years, the discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board by 31 January .
4. In accordance with California Business and Professions Code sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, engineering and geologic evaluations and judgments shall be performed by or under the direction of registered professionals competent and proficient in the fields pertinent to the required activities. All technical reports specified herein that contain workplans for investigations and studies, that describe the conduct of investigations and studies, or that contain technical conclusions and recommendations concerning engineering and geology shall be prepared by or
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 25
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


under the direction of appropriately qualified professional(s), even if not explicitly
stated. Each technical report submitted by the Discharger shall bear the professional’s signature and stamp.
5. The Discharger shall submit the technical reports and work plans required by this Order for consideration by the Executive Officer, and incorporate comments the Executive Officer may have in a timely manner, as appropriate. Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Order, the Discharger shall proceed with all work required by the foregoing provisions by the due dates specified.
6. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program R5-2016- 0054, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by
the Executive Officer. The submittal dates of Discharger self -monitoring reports
shall be no later than the submittal date specified in the MRP.
7. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
8. The Discharger shall comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of technical and monitoring reports. On or before each report due date, the Discharger shall submit the specified document to the Central Valley Water Board or, if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, then
the Discharger shall state the reasons for such noncompliance and provide an
estimate of the date when the Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board in writing when it returns to compliance
with the time schedule. Violations may result in enforcement action, including Central Valley Water Board or court orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.
9. The Discharger shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed or used by the Discharger to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of back -up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems that are installed by the Discharger
when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of this Order.
10. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost -effective control technique(s)
including proper operation and maintenance, to comply with this Order.
11. The Discharger shall provide certified wastewater treatment plant operators in accordance with Title 23, division 3, chapter 26.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 26
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


12. As described in the Standard Provisions, the Discharger shall report promptly to
the Central Valley Water Board any material change or proposed change in the
character, location, or volume of the discharge.
13. The Discharger shall report to the Central Valley Water Board any toxic chemical release data it reports to the State Emergency Response Commission within
15 days of reporting the data to the Commission pursuant to section 313 of the
"Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act of 1986."
14. The Discharger shall comply with the requirements of the Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements (General WDRs) for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Water Quality Order 2006- 0003), the Revised General WDRs Monitoring and
Reporting Program (Water Quality Order 2008- 0002- EXEC), and any subsequent
revisions thereto. Water Quality Order 2006- 0003 and Order 2008- 0002- EXEC
require the Discharger to notify the Central Valley Water Board and take remedial action upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanitary sewer system resulting in a sanitary sewer overflow.
15. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant -free wastewater to be discharged into the
wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal systems in amounts that significantly diminish the system's capability to comply with this Order. Pollutant -
free wastewater means rainfall, groundwater, cooling waters, and condensates that are essentially free of pollutants.
16. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement involving disposal or recycling areas or off -site reuse of effluent, used to
justify the capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board in writing of the situation and of what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full compliance with this Order.
17. In the event of any change in control or ownership of the WWTF , the Discharger
must notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to the Central Valley Water Board.
18. To assume operation as Discharger under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must contain the requesting entity's full legal name, the state of incorporation if a corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the persons responsible for contact with the Central Valley Water Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or operator assumes full responsibility for compliance with this Order. Failure to submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a violation of the Water Code. If approved by the Executive Officer, the transfer request will be submitted to the Central Valley Water
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016- 0054 27
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Board for its consideration of transferring the ownership of this Order at one of its
regularly scheduled meetings.
19. A copy of this Order including the MRP, Information Sheet, Attachments, and Standard Provisions, shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
20. The Central Valley Water Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take other enforcement actions. Failure to comply with this Order may result in the assessment of Administrative Civil Liability of up to $10,000 per violation, per day, depending on the violation, pursuant to the Water Code, including sections 13268, 13350 and 13385. The Central Valley Water Board reserves its right to take any enforcement actions authorized by
law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may petition the State Water Board to review the action in accordance with Water Code section 13320 and California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 2050 and following. The State Water Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m., 30 days after the date of this Order, except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this Order falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the State Water Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next
business day. Copies of the law and regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found
on the Internet at:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices/petitions/water_quality
or will be provid ed upon request.
 I, PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a full true, and correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board on 24 June 2016 Original signed by
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MON ITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2016- 0054

FOR
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

 The Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring influent
source water, effluent wastewater, and the disposal areas. This MRP is issued pursuant to
Water Code Section 13267. The Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP
unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer.
 All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of material sampled. The time, date, and location of each sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of custody form. Field test instruments (such as those used to measure pH and dissolved oxygen) may be used provided that:
1. The operator is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are calibrated prior to each monitoring event;
3. The instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the “Reporting” section of the MRP.
 Laboratory analytical procedures shall comply with the methods and holding times specified in
the following (as applicable to the medium to be analyzed) :
• Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater (EPA);
• Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste (EPA);
• Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes (EPA);
• Methods for Determination of Inorganic Substances in Environmental Samples (EPA);
• Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater (APHA/AWWA/WEF);
and
• Soil, Plant and Water Reference Methods for the Western Region (WREP 125).
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 2 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Approved editions shall be those that are approved for use by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency or the California Department of Public Health’s Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program (ELAP) . The Discharger may propose alternative methods for approval
by the Executive Officer. Where technically feasible, laboratory reporting limits shall be lower
than the applicable water quality objectives for the constituents to be analyzed.
If mon itoring consistently shows no significant variation in a constituent concentration or
parameter after at least eight consecutive monitoring events , the Discharger may request this
MRP be revised to reduce monitoring frequency. The proposal must include adequate
technical justification for reduction in monitoring frequency.

A glossary of terms used in this MRP is included on the last page.

INFLUENT MONITORING

Influent samples shall be collected at the headworks prior to treatment. A grab sample will be considered to be representative of the influent. At a minimum, the Discharger shall monitor
influent as specified below :

Parameter Units Type of Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Average Daily Influent Flow MGD Meter Observation Daily Quarterly
Cumulative Annual Flow 1 MG Calculated Daily Quarterly
BOD5 2 mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
EC µmhos/cm Grab Weekly Quarterly
1 Cumulative annual flow from January 1 through each following day of the year.
2 5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand.

EFFLUENT MONITORING

Effluent samples shall be collected after treatment by the facultative treatment ponds and prior
to discharge to the disposal ponds. Grab samples will be considered be representative of the
effluent. Equal volume grab samples of effluent from ponds F1 and F2 shall be composited
together prior to analysis. Effluent monitoring shall include the following:

Parameter Units Type of Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
BOD 5 1 mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Nitrate as N itrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Calculated 2 Monthly Quarterly
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 3 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


1 5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
2 Summation of total Kjeldahl nitrogen and nitrate as nitrogen.

WASTEWATER DISPOSAL POND MONITORING

The Discharger shall monitor each of the percolation basins with at least one foot of standing water as specified below. For non -sampled ponds, the report shall state whether standing
water was less than one foot.

Constituent Units Type of Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Freeboard 1 0.1 feet Staff Gage Weekly Quarterly
Levee Condition -- Observation Weekly Quarterly
Seepage 2 -- Observation Weekly Quarterly
Odors -- Observation Weekly Quarterly
pH 3 pH Units Grab Weekly Quarterly
Dissolved Oxygen 3 mg/L Grab Weekly Quarterly
1 Freeboard shall be measured vertically from the surface of the pond water to the lowest elevation of the
surrounding berm and shall be measured to the nearest 0.1 feet.
2 Pond containment berms shall be observed for indication s of seepage or surfacing water along the exterior
toe. A sample of the surfacing water shall be collected and tested for total coliform organisms and total
dissolved solids.
3 Samples shall be collected opposite the pond inlet at a depth of one foot.

GROUND WATER MONITORING

Prior to construction and/or sampling of any new groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger
shall submit plans and specifications to the Central Valley Water Board for review and approval. Once installed, all new wells shall be added to the compliance monitoring network. The following table lists all existing monitoring wells and designates the purpose of each well.
Groundwater Gradient
Monitoring Wells Groundwater Quality
Compliance Wells
MW-2 MW-1
MW-3 MW-4
MW-9 MW-5
MW-10 MW-7
MW-11 MW-8
MW-12
MW-13
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 4 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Prior to sampling, depth to groundwater measurements shall be measured in each monitoring
well to the nearest 0.01 feet. Groundwater elevations shall then be calculated to determine groundwater gradient and flow direction.
Low or no- purge sampling methods are acceptable if described in an approved sampling and
analysis plan. Groundwater monitoring for groundwater gradient monitoring wells shall include
depth to groundwater, groundwater elevation and groundwater gradient monitoring as specified in the following table. Groundwater monitoring for compliance wells shall include all of the following :
Constituent Units Type of Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Depth to G roundwater 0.01 feet Measurement Quarterly Quarterly
Groundwater Elevation 1 feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient M agnitude feet/feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
pH pH units Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrate as N itrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total D issolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Dissolved Iron 2 mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Dissolved Manganese 2 mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total coliform organisms MPN per
100 mL Grab Quarterly Quarterly
1 Groundwater elevation shall be determined based on depth- to-water measurements using a surveyed
measuring point elevation on the well and surveyed reference elevation.
2 Samples shall be filtered using a 0.45 µm filter prior to sample preservation.
APPLICABILITY OF GROUNDWATER LIMITATIONS
The Groundwater Limitations set forth in Section E of the WDRs shall apply to the specific compliance monitoring wells tabulated below.

Constituent Grou ndwater
Limitation Date Effective Compliance Wells to which
Limitation Applies
Nitrate nitrogen 10 mg/L Immediately All compliance wells 2
Electrical Conductivity No temporal increase 1 Immediately All compliance wells 2
Total D issolved Solids No temporal increase 1 Immediately All compliance wells 2
Chloride No temporal increase 1 Immediately All compliance wells 2
Iron No temporal increase 1 Immediately All compliance wells 2
Manganese No temporal increase 1 Immediately All compliance wells 2
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 5 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


1 Temporal increase is defined as a statistical increase relative to the 2011 through 2015 concentrations for
each individual compliance well.
2 Including any compliance wells installed subsequent to adoption of this Order.

Groundwater Trigger Concentrations

The following groundwater trigger concentrations are intended only to serve as a means of assessing whether the discharge might potentially cause a violation of one or more of the Groundwater Limitations of the WDRs at some later date.
Constituent Compliance Wells Trigger Concentration, mg/L
Nitrate nitrogen All compliance wells 7.5 mg/L
 If the annual evaluation of groundwater quality performed pursuant to this MRP shows that the
annual average nitrate nitrogen concentration in any compliance well exceeds the trigger
concentration, the Discharger shall submit one or both of the following technical reports by 1 May of the following calendar year (e.g., if the trigger concentration is exceeded for
calendar year 2020, the report is due by 1 May 2021):
a. A technical evaluation of the reason for the concentration increase and a technical demonstration that, although the concentration has increased more than expected in one or more compliance wells, continuing the discharge without additional treatment or control will not result in exceedance of the applicable groundwater limitation.
b. An Action Plan that presents a systematic technical evaluation of each component of the facility’s waste treatment and disposal system to determine whether additional treatment or control is feasible for each waste constituent that exceeds a trigger
concentration. The plan shall evaluate each component of the wastewater treatment,
storage, and disposal system (as applicable); describe available treatment and/or
control technologies; provide preliminary capital and operation/maintenance cost estimates for each; designate the preferred option[s] for implementation; and specify a proposed implementation schedule. The schedule for full implementation shall not exceed one year, and the Discharger shall immediately implement the proposed improvements.

WATER SUPPLY MONITORING

One or more sampling stations shall be established where representative samples of the
municipal water supply can be obtained. Reported results shall be based on flow- weight
averaging of all operating water supply wells or from a representative location where all water
supply sources have commingled. Water supply monitoring shall include at least the following for each water source used during the previous year. As an alternative to annual water supply monitoring, the Discharger may submit results of the most current Department of Public Health
Consumer Confidence Report.
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 6 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY



Parameter Units Type of Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency 1
Electrical Conductivity µmhos/cm Grab Annually Annually
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Annually Annually
pH mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Standard Minerals 2 mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1 Results shall be submitted in the fourth quarter monitoring report.
2 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: boron, calcium,
chloride, iron, magnesium, manganese, nitrogen, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total alkalinity (including alkalinity series), and hard ness.

SLUDGE AND/OR BIOSOLIDS MONITORING

A composite sample of digested sludge shall be collected when sludge is removed from the wastewater treatment system for disposal in accordance with EPA's POTW Sludge Sampling and Analysis Guidance Document, August 1989. The composite sample shall be analyzed for
cadmium, copper, nickel, chromium, lead, and zinc.
 Sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years. A log shall be kept of sludge quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency of entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis for part of the annual report.
REPORTING
All monitoring reports should be converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than 50MB should be emailed to: centralvalleyfresno@waterboards.ca.gov
To ensure that your submittal is routed to the appropriate staff person, the following information should be included in the body of the email:
Attention: Compliance/Enforcement Section
City of Mendota Wastewater Treatment Facility
Fresno County
Place ID: 273126

Documents that are 50 MB or larger should be transferred to a CD, DVD, or flash drive; include a cover sheet with the above information; and mailed to the following address:
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 7 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board
ECM Mailroom
1685 “E” Street
Fresno, CA 93706- 2007

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type (e.g., wastewater, groundwater, etc.), and reported analytical result for each sample are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly illustrate compliance with waste discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported in the next scheduled monitoring report.
Laboratory analysis reports do not need to be included in the monitoring reports; however, all laboratory reports must be retained for a minimum of three years in accordance with Standard Provision C.3.
 In addition to the requirements of Standard Provision C.3, monitoring information shall include the method detection limit (MDL) and the Reporting limit (RL) or practical quantitation limit (PQL). If the regulatory limit for a given constituent is less than the RL (or PQL), then any analytical results for that constituent that are below the RL (or PQL) but above the MDL shall be reported and flagged as estimated. For a Discharger conducting any of its own analyses,
reports must also be signed and certified by the chief of the laboratory.

All monitoring reports that involve planning, investigation, evaluation or design, or other work requiring interpretation and proper application of engineering or geologic sciences, shall be prepared by or under the direction of persons registered to practice in California pursuant to California Business and Professions Code sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.

A. Quarterl y Monitoring Reports

Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Central Valley Water Board on the
1
st day of the second month after the quarter (i.e. the January -March quarterly report is due
by May 1st). Each Quarterly Monitoring Report shall include the following :
1. Results of Influent Monitoring for each month,
2. Results of E ffluent Monitoring for each month,
3. Results of W astewater Disposal Pond Monitoring for each month,
4. Results of G roundwater Monitoring, including:
a. A narrative description of all preparatory, monitoring, sampling, and sample handli ng for groundwater monitoring.
b. A field log for each well documenting depth to groundwater; method of purging;
parameters measured before, during, and after purging; sample preparation (e.g., filtering); and sample preservation.
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 8 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


c. Calculation of the groundwater elevation at each monitoring well, and
determination of groundwater flow direction and gradient on the date of measurement.
d. Summary data tables of historical and current water table elevations and analytical results.
e. A scaled map showing relevant structures and features of the facility, the locations of monitoring wells, surface waters, and groundwater elevation contours referenced to an appropriate datum (e.g., NGVD).
5. Results of Sludge and/ or Biosolids Monitoring completed during the quarter, and (if
applicable) verification of classification of biosolids as nonhazardous per 22 CCR, Article 11, Criteria for Identification of Hazardous and Extremely Hazardous Waste (California Assessment Manual procedures).
6. Data presented in a tabular format.
7. A comparison of monitoring data to the effluent limitations and discharge specifications and an explanation of any violation of those requirements.
8. If requested by staff, copies of laboratory analytical report(s).
9. A copy of inspection log page(s) documenting inspections completed during the quarter.
10. A copy of calibration log page(s) verifying calibration of all hand- held monitoring
instruments performed during the quarter.
B. Annual Monitoring Report
An Annual Report shall be submitted by 1 February of each year, and shall include the
following:
1. The average monthly flows for each month of the year
2. The average dry weather flow and total annual influent flow calculated as specified in
the Flow Limitations of the WDRs and compared to the specified f low limits.
3. The flow -weighted annual average EC concentration shall be calculated using the
following formula:
∑∑×
=12
112
1) (
ii i
a
VV C
C

Where : Ca = Flow -weighted annual average EC concentration ( µmhos/cm )
 i = The number of the month (e.g., January = 1, February = 2, etc.)
 C i = Monthly wastewater EC conc entration for calendar month i (µmhos/cm)
 V i = Volume of wastewater disposed to ponds for calendar month i
(million gallons )
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 9 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


4. Effective 2020, and every five years thereafter, an evaluation of sludge depth and
sludge removal as necessary pursuant to Discharge Specification B.15.
5. Concentration v. time graphs for each monitored constituent using all historic groundwater monitoring data. Each graph shall show the background groundwater concentration range, the trigger concentration specified above, if applicable, the Water
Quality Objective, and the approved statistical determination of “current groundwater quality” as horizontal lines at the applicable concentration.
6. An evaluation of the groundwater quality beneath the site and determination of whether
any trigger concentrations were exceeded in any compliance well at any time during the calendar year. This shall be determined by comparing the annual average concentrat ion for each well during the calendar year to the corresponding trigger
concentration specified above. If any groundwater trigger concentrations were exceeded, include acknowledgment that the technical report described in the Groundwater Trigger Concentrations section of this MRP will be submitted in accordance with the specified schedule.
7. An evaluation of the groundwater quality beneath the site and determination of
compliance with Applicability of Groundwater Limitations, as specified above.
Compliance shall be based on each compliance well using statistical analysis methods
in accordance with the approved Groundwater Limitations Compliance Assessment
Plan. Include all calculations and data input/analysis tables derived from use of
statistical software, as applicable.
8. Sludge/Biosolids monitoring results, if sludge or biosolids were removed for off -site
disposal during the year.
9. A summary of all biosolids/sludge analytical data and verification of compliance with the biosolids/sludge monitoring requirements.
10. A summary of information on the disposal of sludge and/or solid waste during the calendar year.
11. Analytical results for any annual water supply monitoring. The Discharger’s Consumer Confidence Report (or Annual Water Quality Report) may be submitted to comply with
this requirement, if applicable.
12. An evaluation of the performance of the WWTF, including discussion of capacity issues, infiltration and inflow rates, nuisance conditions, and a forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year, as described in Standard Provision E.4
13. A discussion of compliance and the corrective actions taken, as well as any planned or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste
discharge requirements.
14. A copy of the certification for each certified wastewater treatment plant operator working at the facility and a statement about whether the Discharger is in compliance with Title 23, CCR, Division 3, Chapter 26.
15. Monitoring equipment maintenance and calibration records, as described in Standard Provision C.4.
MONITORIN G AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2016 -0054 - 10 -
CITY OF MENDOTA
MENDOTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


16. A statement of when the wastewater treatment system Operation and Maintenance
Manual was last reviewed for adequacy and a description of any changes made during the year.
17. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies or redundancies in the monitoring system or reporting program.
A letter transmitting the self -monitoring reports shall accompany each report. The letter shall
include a discussion of requirement violations found during the reporting period, and actions taken or planned for correcting noted violations, such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence
will be satisfactory. The transmittal letter shall contain a statement by the Discharger, or the Discharger's authorized agent, under penalty of perjury, that to the best of the signer's knowledge the report is true, accurate and complete, as described in the Standard Provisions
General Reporting Requirements Section B.3.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.
 Ordered by: Original signed by
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

 (Date)

 24 June 2016
GLOSSARY

BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO 3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots over a 24- hour period.
Daily Every day except weekends or holidays .
Twice Weekly Twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly O nce per week.
Twice Monthly Twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly O nce per calendar month.
Bimonthly O nce every two calendar months (i.e., six times per year) during non-
consecutive months.
Quarterly O nce per calendar quarter.
Semiannually O nce every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) during non-
consecutive quarters .
Annually O nce per year.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
MTF Multiple tube fermentation
Monitoring Report Submittal Transmittal Form


Attn: Omar Mostafa (559) 4 45-5197
Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board 1685 “E” Street
Fresno, CA 9 3706-2007

Discharger: City of Mendota
Name of Facility: Mendota Wastewater Treatment Facility
WDRs Order Number: R5-2016-0054
WDID: 5D100109001
County: Fresno

I am hereby submitting to the Central Valley Water Board the following information:
Check all that apply:

1st / 2nd / 3rd / 4th ( circle one) Quarterly Monitoring Report for the year of__________

Annual Monitoring Report for the year __________
Violation Notification

During the monitoring period, there were / were not (circle one) any violations of the WDRs.

1. The violations were:


2. Have the violations been corrected? Yes / No. If no, what will be done to correct the
violations:


Certification Statement

“I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the
information submitted in this document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.”
Signature: _____________________________ Phone: ____________________
 Printed Name: ___________________________ Date: _____________
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATE R QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

STANDARD PROVISIONS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS


1 March 1991

A. General Provisions:

1. The requirements prescribed herein do not author ize the commission of any act causing injury to
the property of another, or protec t the Discharger from liabilities under federal, state, or local
laws. This Order does not convey any pr operty rights or exclusive privileges.
 2. The provisions of this Order are severable. If any provision of this Or der is held invalid, the
remainder of this Order shall not be affected.
 3. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this Order may be terminated or modified for cause,
including, but not limited to: a. Violation of any term or c ondition contained in this Order;
 b. Obtaining this Order by misrepre sentation, or failure to disclo se fully all relevant facts;
 c. A change in any condition that results in either a temporary or permanent need to reduce or
eliminate the authorized discharge;
 d. A material change in the character, location, or volume of discharge.
 4. Before making a material change in the char acter, location, or volum e of discharge, the
discharger shall file a new Report of Waste Di scharge with the Regiona l Board. A material
change includes, but is not limited to, the following: a. An increase in area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond that specified in
waste discharge requirements.
 b. A significant change in disposal method, locatio n or volume, e.g., change from land disposal
to land treatment.
 c. The addition of a major industrial, muni cipal or domestic wast e discharge facility.
 d. The addition of a major industrial waste disc harge to a discharge of essentially domestic
sewage, or the addition of a ne w process or product by an industrial facility resulting in a
change in the character of the waste.

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -2-
Waste Discharge to Land


5. Except for material determined to be confid ential in accordance with California law and
regulations, all reports prepared in accordance with terms of this Order shall be available for
public inspection at the offices of the Board. Data on waste discharges, water quality, geology,
and