PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Discharger previously provided sewerage service for the Deuel Vocational
Institution (DVI) , a correctional facility, located east of Tracy, C alifornia , which served a
population of approximately 2,500, including inmates and staff. The DVI facility was
serviced by an onsite sanitary wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) that discharged
tertiary treated effluent to Deuel Drain, a water of the United States and tributary to the
San Joaquin River.

In August 2021, the Discharger initiated the Deuel Vocational Institution Warm
Shutdown, during which no inmates and staff are housed at the DVI site, and no
municipal wastewater is conveyed, treated, or discharged. All support activities such as
kitchen, laundry, and dining, have also ceased. The DVI site is now maintained by a
staff of 20 or less and domestic waste is handled by portable facilities. Existing buildings
and facilities at the DVI site are maintained in a ready state, and facilities such as the
water system and plumbing, sewer system, storm drainage facilities, and building
structures and functional elements, are maintained in an operational state. The DVI site
will continue to maintain the wastewater treatment components no longer in use and
flush the sewer system once a month with potable effluent from the onsite drinking
water treatment system . The sewer system and wastewater treatment plant
components have been drained and cleaned of all municipal waste. Now the sewer
system only collects water for flushing the cold and hot water piping and other incidental
flows and conveys those flows to limit ed parts of the WWTP . Due to the drastic change
in the operation of the WWTP and character of the effluent , this site is considered a new
discharge.

In addition to the flushing stream , other i nfluent flow s to the WWTP will consist of
basement drain age, groundwater inflow and infiltration , and rainwater runoff .
Wastewater treatment components still in use include bar screening, grit removal, and
Richard Abalos - 3 - 24 February 2025
Warm Shutdown Branch Support Unit DVIWarm Shutdown Facility
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation R5-2022-0006-036
drum screens, and the aeration basins will be used for equalization and settling during
storm events. All other treatment components are maintained in a ready state should
the DVI site re -commence standard operations. To accommodate for variable flow and
variable water quality, treated effluent is stored in the clay-lined facultative ponds for
disposal. Treated effluent may be discharged to the Deuel Drain if needed and ponds
are at capacity. The maximum e ffluent flow is expected to be approximately 0.0 6 million
gallons per day (MGD).

The Limited Threat General Order and this NOA do not allow the discharge of
wastewater that contains sewage of human origin. Therefore, prior to re -instituting
discharge of domestic sewage from the Facility, the Discharger must submit a Report of
Waste Dis charge and receive an individual NPDES permit from the Central Valley
Water Board.
DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
Discharge prohibitions are specified in Section IV Discharge Prohibitions of the Limited
Threat General Order. Based on the information available , the following discharge
prohibitions are applicable to this discharge:
·Prohibition IV.A
·Prohibition IV.B
·Prohibition IV.C
·Prohibition IV.D. The flow rate shall not exceed 0.06 MGD