Comparison of the daily dry weather flows and the peak month daily flow indicates that
inflow and infiltration (I/I) contributes signific antly to influent flows during the rainy season.
7. The sewer system consists of approximately 15 miles of gravity pipe and 6 miles of force
main. Seven pump stations (PS-1, PS-2, PS- 3, PS-4, PS-6, PS-7, and the State Park
pump station) convey raw sewage from the gravity sewers through three separate force
mains (the Kelseyville, Corinthian, and State Park force mains) to an 840-gallon concrete collection box on the southeast side of the treatm ent plant. The flow from each force main
is individually metered to monitor the total infl uent flow to the treatment plant. Each of the
District’s pump stations has an alarm system wit h an autodialer to alert operations staff of
power failures and high liquid levels. Portabl e generators are available to provide backup
power to the pumps when needed.
8. The collection box has sluice gates to divide the influent flow between three aerated
stabilization ponds if desired. However, the three treatment ponds are usually operated in
series with Pond 1 receiving the raw sewage. Attachment B, which is attached hereto and
made part of this Order by reference, is a site plan for the treatment plant.
9. Pond 1 is operated as an aerated facultat ive pond, and Ponds 2 and 3 are operated as
aerated stabilization ponds. A fourth pond (Pond 4) functions as a clear well for the
effluent pumping station. Design data fo r the existing treatment plant ponds are
summarized below.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0023
LAKE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT
KELSEYVILLE COUNTY WATER WORKS DISTRICT NO. 3 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY

 3
Pond Name Surface Area
(acres) Volume 1
 (MG) Depth 2
(feet)
1 2.75 4.3 3.5
2 3.72 5.9 3.5
3 3.85 5.8 3.5
4 0.91 1.1 3.5
1 Total volume at two feet freeboard.
2 Design operating depth with two feet of freeboard.
10. Sodium hypochlorite solution is injected into the treated effluent at the filter screen guide
channel just upstream of the effluent pump vault. Contact is achieved within the
13,000-foot force main as the effluent is pumped to the P/E pond site for disposal.
11. Per the California Department of Public H ealth (CDPH), disinfection is not required to
comply with the Title 22 water recycling require ments set forth in WDRs Order No. 99-070
for the crops being irrigated with reclaimed wate r, but the Discharger has been disinfecting
the treated effluent for several years. According to the 1988 WWTF Operation and
Maintenance Manual, the disinfection system is designed to reduce total coliform
organisms to 23 MPN/100 mL as a 30-day median and 500 MPN/100 mL as a daily maximum if the contact time is 25 minutes or more at the design influent flow rate of
0.26 mgd. The Operation and Maintenance Manual recommends that the residual chlorine
concentration be between 0.2 and 1.0 mg/L after 15 to 30 minutes of contact time, and that
the chlorine dose rate should be adjusted based on monitoring data. The Discharger does
not monitor the effluent for total coliform organism s, so the level of disinfection currently
achieved is not known.
12. The seven P/E ponds, which are approximatel y 525 feet above treatment plant, are shown
on Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
Design data for the P/E ponds are summarized below.

Pond Name Surface Area
1
(acres) Volume 1
 (MG) Depth 1
(feet)
H-1 1.10 1.28 3.9
H-2 1.53 1.81 3.9
H-3 1.39 1.48 3.5
H-4 1.23 1.31 3.5
G-1 1.07 1.13 3.5
G-2 1.29 1.36 3.5
G-3 1.25 1.32 3.5
1 At two feet of freeboard.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0023
LAKE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT
KELSEYVILLE COUNTY WATER WORKS DISTRICT NO. 3 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY

 4
13. The effluent pump station has two pumps wit h a design capacity of 290 gallons per minute
(gpm) each, or 580 gpm (0.835 mgd) total. The 13,000-foot effluent pipeline from the
treatment plant to the remote P/E pond site is 6-inch diameter ductile iron and asbestos
cement. Due to deterioration of the effluent pumps and pipeline, the current capacity of
the effluent pumping system is approximately 0.47 mgd, which is less than the current
peak day flow of 0.78 mgd and only slightly gr eater than the current peak month flow of
0.45 mgd.
14. The effluent pump station has automated controls and an alarm system to warn operators
of power failure. An emergency standby generator is available in case of power failure.
15. The treatment plant has duplex units or s pare parts for critical mechanical components,
and a control system to monitor equipment st atus and performance. The control system
includes an autodialer to alert plant operators of mechanical problems.
16. The Discharger regularly monitors treated e ffluent for pH, electrical conductivity (EC),
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and settleable solids (SS). Effluent monitoring data
for these parameters for January 2006 thr ough July 2008 are summarized below.
 Treated Effluent Results

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in Discharge
22. The Discharger plans to upgrade the WWTF to comply with the CDO, and has secured
approval for $3.5 million in loans and grants from the State Water Resources Control
Board for this purpose.
23. The improvements project cu rrently planned (known as Phase I) will consist of increasing
the effluent lift station capacity to 0.79 mgd; replacing 3,000 feet of effluent pipeline;
reconfiguring the treatment ponds; and improving the treatm ent system to provide full
secondary treatment within the f ootprint of the existing plant. A conceptual site plan for
the upgraded treatment plant is shown on Atta chment D, which is attached hereto and
made part of this Order by reference.
24. Part of Treatment Pond 1 will be converted to an aerated l agoon system with both partially
and fully mixed cells separated by baffle curtains . The fully mixed cell will have four 7.5-hp
aerators, and the three partially mixed ce lls will each have one 2-hp aerator. The new
treatment lagoon will be lined with 60-mil hi gh density polyethylene (HDPE). The
remainder of Pond 1, and Ponds 2 and 3 will serve as effluent storage ponds. Pond 4 will continue to be used as a clear we ll for the effluent pump station.
25. According to the RWD, Phase I will provi de a firm treatment, storage and disposal capacity
of 0.30 mgd as an average annual flow, and should accommodate projected growth
through 2015, assuming a one percent population growth rate.
26. To accommodate projected flows for 2016 th rough 2025, the Wastewater Facilities Plan
envisions that a second phase (Phase II) will consist of a new headworks system
designed to accommodate 0.90 mgd; increasing the effluent lift station capacity again to
0.90 mgd; replacing another 6, 400 feet of effluent pipeline; improving the chlorine
disinfection system to increase contact time; and increasing the P/E pond system disposal
capacity. The scope of the Phase II improvem ents is not fully defined, so this Order will
have to be revised prior to any further expansion.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0023
LAKE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT
KELSEYVILLE COUNTY WATER WORKS DISTRICT NO. 3 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY

 7
27. The RWD included a water balance for the both the current and Phase I design flow
scenarios to demonstrate adequate treatment, st orage and disposal capacity for current
demand and anticipated development through appr oximately 2015. The water balance
was prepared based on reasonable estimates of influent flows, I/I, precipitation, and
evaporation. The water balance was used to model storage and disposal capacity during
the 100-year, 365-day precipitati on event with at least two feet of freeboard in every pond.
The model indicates that the upgraded WW TF will provide the following capacities:
Condition Current Capacity Phase I Capacity
Average daily flow 0.21 mgd
0.31 mgd
Average daily dry weather flow 0.12 mgd
0.22 mgd
Peak month daily flow 0.39 mgd
0.48 mgd
The model shows that the P/E pond percolation ra tes are critical to the WWTF’s effluent
disposal capacity. The Discharger has recently completed percolation testing of five of the
seven P/E ponds. Based on those tests, the percolation rate was highly variable between the P/E ponds and the average percolation rate wa s 0.60 inches per day. The RWD states
that the Discharger currently scarifies eac h P/E pond every three to four years on a
rotational basis. This schedule may not be adequat e to maintain percolation rates high
enough to support the proposed Phase I flows. However, the Phase I treatment system
improvements may result in reduced organic loading to the P/E ponds, which may reduce
the rate of clogging. Additionally, the Discharger states that it may be possible to increase
the frequency of scarification to once every two years on average. Because of the uncertainty regarding sustainable P/E percolation rate s, it is appropriate to require that the
discharger submit and implement a plan to increase the frequency of scarification and
re-evaluate percolation rates periodically, and continue its I/I reduction efforts. Because
the current WWTF storage/disposal capacity is less that the current flows cited in Finding
No. 6, it is also appropriate to limit influent flows rates to the maximum values tabulated in
Finding No. 6 until the Phase I project is complete.
28. A previous order, WDRs Order No. 90-149, allowed the Discharger to land apply treated
effluent to a 10-acre walnut orchard adj acent to the south side of the P/E ponds
(Attachment C). The Discharger stopped using t hat area for effluent disposal and it was
not included in the WDRs Order No. 99-094. The Discharger may wish to begin
discharging to the orchard again, but is not prepared to provide sufficient details of the
proposed discharge at this time. This Or der may be reopened to prescribe requirements
for discharges to the orchard if the Di scharger submits an amended Report of Waste
Discharge that describes the orchard disc harge operation and provides a revised water
balance capacity analysis.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0023
LAKE COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT
KELSEYVILLE COUNTY WATER WORKS DISTRICT NO. 3 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY

 8
Wastewater Collection System
29. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewat er and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system el ements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a di scharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary storage
and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells , regulated impoundments, tanks, etc.) may be
part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not considered
sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within these temporary
storage/conveyance facilities. Sanitary sewe r overflow is also defined in State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ, Statewide
General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems .
30. Sanitary sewer overflows consist of varying mixtures of domestic and commercial
wastewater, depending on land uses in the sewage collection system. The chief causes of
sanitary sewer overflows include grease blo ckages, root blockages, debris blockages,
sewer line flood damage, manhole structure failu res, vandalism, pump station mechanical
failures, power outages, storm or groundwater in flow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or
contractor caused blockages.
31. Sanitary sewer overflows often contai n high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic
organisms, toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and
grease, and other pollutants. Sanitary sewe r overflows can cause temporary exceedance
of applicable water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect
aquatic life, and impair the public recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface
waters in the area.
32. The Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate,
and prevent discharges from its sanitary se wer collection system and comply with State
Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ.
Site-Specific Conditions
33. Based on the 2007 Consumer Confidence R eport prepared pursuant to Section 116470 of
the Health and Safety Code, the chemical charac ter of the municipal water supply, which is
obtained from four wells screened wit hin the Kelsey Creek aquifer, is summarized below.
 Analytical Results