FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Murphys and serves a
population of approximately 1,542 . The permitted average daily discharge flow of the
Facility is 0.84 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of preliminary screening through a rotary strainer, a complete
mix basin, a sludge -settling storage basin, two dissolved air flotation (DAF)
thickeners, two continuous backwash sand filters, an ultraviolet light (UV)
disinfection syst em, and an effluent storage pond. The Facility also includes on -site
leachfields and an emergency storage pond to serve as a long -term plant reliability
feature during periods of Facility repair. Tertiary treated wastewater is currently
stored and reused f or golf course irrigation by the Forest Meadows Developer LLC .
Due to a lack of adequate storage and disposal capacity, the Discharger has
requested to discharge tertiary treated effluent from the Facility to the Collierville
Powerhouse Effluent Channel via the Collierville Tunnel at Discharge Point 001. The
Collier ville Tunnel is the penstock of Discharger ’s North Fork Power Plant. The
penstock is an 18 -foot diameter, 8.5 -mile long conduit connecting McKays Point
Reservoir on the North Fork Stanislaus Rive r and the Collierville Powerhouse, which
discharges to an effluent channel approximately 1,000 feet upstream of the
Stanislaus River (see Attachment B). The outfall pipeline necessary to discharge to
surface water via the Collierville Tunnel at Discharge Point 001 has not been
constructed. This Order only regulates surface water discharges to the Collierville
Powerhouse Effluent Channel, which may only occur during wet winters from 1
December through 15 May, when the wastewater flows exceed the Facility’s e ffluent
storage and disposal capacity. The Discharger’s storage facilities and reclamation
are covered under separate WDR’s Order 5 -00-066.

The disposal of UV -disinfected tertiary treated effluent is currently accomplished
solely by irrigation of the 42 -acre Forest Meadows Golf Course. The Discharger
anticipates the discharge to surface water would occur only during very wet years,
when efflue nt flows are highest due to high infiltration and inflow, golf course
irrigation needs are low, and winter and/or s pring storage needs are high, and only
when there is a threat of overflow from the storage reservoir.

Biosolids at the Facility are collected and stored in a holding tank prior to being
dewatered on a belt press. Dewatered sludge is taken off -site for land disposal
approximately once a year. Decant collected in the sludge holding tank is discharged
back to the sludge -settling mixing basin and sent back through the DAF thickeners.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503. The Discharger’s solids handling is covered under separate
WDR Order 5 -00-066.
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2024-0067
FOREST MEADOWS WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0085278

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A of this Fact Sheet, due to a lack of adequate storage
and disposal capacity, the Discharger is planning to construct an outfall pipeline to
the Collierville Tunnel. Design of the pipeline is complete; however, construction of
the pipeline is not planned until necessary to accommodate growth within the service
area.
III.