wastewater treatment and disposal facility’s
performance, including discussion of capacity issues, infiltration and inflow rates,
nuisance conditions, and forecast of flows anticipated in the following year (SPRRs
E.4).
9. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
10. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling
plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and
operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
11. Annual production of total sludge/biosolids in dry tons or cubic yards (if applicable).
12. A description of the sludge/biosolids disposal methods , including the following
information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one method is used,
including the percentage disposed of by each method.
a) For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the
Order number of WDRs that regulate it.
b) For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c) For incineration, include: the name and locations of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method
of ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving as (if applicable).
d) For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of
this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial
enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take oth er
enforcement actions. Failure to comply with this Order may result in the assessment of
Administrative Civil Liability of up to $1,000 per violation, per day, depending on the violation,
pursuant to Water Code section 13268. The Central Valley Water Boar d reserves its right to
take any enforcement actions authorized by law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may petition the
State Water Resources Control Board to review the action in accordance with California
Water Code section 13320 and California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 20 50 and
following. The State Water Resources Control Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m.,
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2024-0016 9
TUOLUMNE UTILITIES DISTRICT
SONORA REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
30 days after the date of this MRP, except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this
Order falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the
State Water Resources Control Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the
law and regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found on the internet
(http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices/petitions/water_quality) or will be provided on
request.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program starting 1 June 2024.
I, PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer, hereby certify that the following is a full, true and
correct copy of the Monitoring and Reporting Program issued by the California Regional
Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 19 April 2024 .
PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2024-0016 16
TUOLUMNE UTILITIES DISTRICT
SONORA REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FA CILITY
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
IV. GLOSSARY
amsl Above mean sea level
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Influent and effluent samples shall be time-based composite samples
consisting of at least eight equal volume discrete sample aliquots collected at
constant time intervals into one container. A time composite sample can be
collected either manually or with an automatic sampler.
Daily Once per day.
1/Week Once per week.
2/Week Twice per week on non -consecutive days .
1/Month Once per month.
2/Month Twice per month in non-consecutive weeks .
1/Quarter Once per quarter.
2/Year Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) in non-consecutive
quarters unless otherwise specified .
1/Year Once per year .
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
Metals Metals analysis shall include, at a minimum: aluminum, arsenic, barium,
cadmium, chromium, coper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium,
silver, and zinc.
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
Standard Minerals Analysis shall include: alkalinity (as CaCO 3), bicarbonate (as CaCO 3),
boron, calcium, carbonate (as CaCO 3), chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrate as N, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total
dissolved solids, and verification that the analysis is complete (i.e.,
cation/anion balance).