wastewater treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency and routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibr ations
(Standard Provision C.4).
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2014-0004 -8-
CITY OF SANGER
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan, nutrient management plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
Sludge/B iosolids sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years. A log
shall be kept of sludge quantities generated and of handling, application, and disposal activities. The frequency of entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis to report sludge monitoring. Sludge reporting shall include:
1. The results of sludge monitoring specified on page 4 and 5.
2. The amount of sludge generated that year, in dry metric tons, and the amount accumulated from previous years.
3. Demonstrations of pathogen reduction methods and vector attraction reduction methods, as described in 40 CFR Parts 503.17 and 503.27, and certifications.
4. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method.
a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill receiving the
sludge, and the Order number of WDRs that regulate it.
b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where sludge incineration occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).
d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs that regulate it.

Pretreatment Information
1. A discussion of Upset, Interference, or Pass Through incidents, if any, at the Domestic
WWTF which the Discharger knows or suspects were caused by industrial users of
the system.
2. The cumulative number of industrial users that the Discharger has notified regarding
Baseline Monitoring Reports and the cumulative number of industrial user responses .
3. An updated list of the Discharger’s industrial users including their names and
addresses, or a list of deletions and additions keyed to a previously submitted list.
The Discharger shall provide a brief explanation for each deletion.
4. A summary of the inspection and sampling activities conducted by the Discharger
during the past year to gather information and data regarding the industrial users.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2014-0004 -9-
CITY OF SANGER
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


5. A summary of the compliance and enforcement activities during the past year. The summary shall include the names and addresses of the industrial users affected by the following actions:
a. Warning letters or notices of violation regarding the industrial user’s apparent noncompliance with federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations.
For each industrial user, identify whether the apparent violation concerned the
federal categorical standards or local disc harge limitations;
b. Administrative Orders regarding the industrial user’s noncompliance with federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations. For each industrial user, identify whether the violation concerned the federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations;
c. Civil actions regarding the industrial user’s noncompliance with federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations. For each industrial user, identify whether
the violation concerned the federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations;
d. Criminal actions regarding the industrial user’s noncompliance with federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations. For each industrial user, identify whether the violation concerned the federal categorical standards or local discharge limitations ;
e. Assessment of monetary penalties. For each industrial user identify the amount of the penalties ;
f. Restriction of flow to the treatment plant; or
g. Disconnection from discharge to the treatment plant.

The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following adoption of this Order.

 Original signed by:
Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON , Executive Officer
 6 February 2014
 (Date)
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2014-0004 -10-
CITY OF SANGER
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Unless otherwise specified or approved, s amples shall be a flow -proportioned
composite consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected every day .
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at leas t twice per week on non-consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non-consecutive
weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per
year) during non-consecutive months
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April,
July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per
year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in
April and October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
µg/L Micrograms per liter
µmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance.
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATE R QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

STANDARD PROVISIONS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS


1 March 1991

A. General Provisions:

1. The requirements prescribed herein do not author ize the commission of any act causing injury to
the property of another, or protec t the Discharger from liabilities under federal, state, or local
laws. This Order does not convey any pr operty rights or exclusive privileges.
 2. The provisions of this Order are severable. If any provision of this Or der is held invalid, the
remainder of this Order shall not be affected.
 3. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this Order may be terminated or modified for cause,
including, but not limited to: a. Violation of any term or c ondition contained in this Order;
 b. Obtaining this Order by misrepre sentation, or failure to disclo se fully all relevant facts;
 c. A change in any condition that results in either a temporary or permanent need to reduce or
eliminate the authorized discharge;
 d. A material change in the character, location, or volume of discharge.
 4. Before making a material change in the char acter, location, or volum e of discharge, the
discharger shall file a new Report of Waste Di scharge with the Regiona l Board. A material
change includes, but is not limited to, the following: a. An increase in area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond that specified in
waste discharge requirements.
 b. A significant change in disposal method, locatio n or volume, e.g., change from land disposal
to land treatment.
 c. The addition of a major industrial, muni cipal or domestic wast e discharge facility.
 d. The addition of a major industrial waste disc harge to a discharge of essentially domestic
sewage, or the addition of a ne w process or product by an industrial facility resulting in a
change in the character of the waste.

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -2-
Waste Discharge to Land


5. Except for material determined to be confid ential in accordance with California law and
regulations, all reports prepared in accordance with terms of this Order shall be available for
public inspection at the offices of the Board. Data on waste discharges, water quality, geology,
and hydrogeology shall not be considered confidential.
 6. The discharger shall take all r easonable steps to minimize any adverse impact to the waters of the
state resulting from noncom pliance with this Order. Such steps shall include accelerated or
additional monitoring as necessary to determine the nature and impact of the noncompliance.
 7. The discharger shall maintain in good working order and operate as effi ciently as possible any
facility, control system, or monitoring device installed to achieve compliance with the waste
discharge requirements.
8. The discharger shall permit repr esentatives of the Regional Board (hereafter Board) and the State
Water Resources Control Board, upon presentations of credentials, to:
 a. Enter premises where wastes are treated, stor ed, or disposed of and facilities in which any
records are kept,
 b. Copy any records required to be kept under terms and conditions of this Order,
 c. Inspect at reasonable hours, monitoring equipment required by this Order, and
 d. Sample, photograph and video tape any discha rge, waste, waste management unit, or
monitoring device.

9. For any electrically operated equipment at the site, the failure of which would cause loss of
control or containment of waste materials, or viol ation of this Order, the discharger shall employ
safeguards to prevent loss of control over wastes . Such safeguards may include alternate power
sources, standby generators, re tention capacity, operating procedures, or other means.
 10. The fact that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in Order to
maintain compliance with this Order shall not be a defense for the discharger’s violations of the
Order.
 11. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall create a condition of nuisance or pollution as
defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
 12. The discharge shall remain within the designated dis posal area at all times.

B. General Reporting Requirements:
 1. In the event the discharger does not comply or will be unable to comply with any prohibition or
limitation of this Order for any reason, the disc harger shall notify the Board by telephone at
(916) 464-3291 [Note: Current phone numbers for all three Regional Board offices may be
found on the internet at http:// www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5/contact_us.] as soon as it or its agents
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -3-
Waste Discharge to Land


have knowledge of such noncompliance or potentia l for noncompliance, a nd shall confirm this
notification in writing within two weeks . The written notification shall state the nature, time and
cause of noncompliance, and shall incl ude a timetable for corrective actions.

2. The discharger shall have a plan for preven ting and controlling accidental discharges, and for
minimizing the effect of such events. This plan shall: a. Identify the possible sources of accidenta l loss or leakage of wastes from each waste
management, treatment, or disposal facility.
 b. Evaluate the effectiveness of present waste management/treatment units and operational
procedures, and identify needed changes of contingency plans.
 c. Predict the effectiveness of the proposed changes in waste management/treatment facilities
and procedures and provide an implementati on schedule containing interim and final dates
when changes will be implemented.
 The Board, after review of the plan, may establis h conditions that it deems necessary to control
leakages and minimize their effects.
3. All reports shall be signed by persons identified below:
 a. For a corporation
: by a principal executive officer of at least the level of senior
vice-president.
 b. For a partnership or sole proprietorship
: by a general partner or the proprietor.
 c. For a municipality, state, federal or other public agency
: by either a principal executive
officer or ranking elected or appointed official.
 d. A duly authorized representative of a person designated in 3a, 3b or 3c of this requirement if;

(1) the authorization is made in writing by a person described in 3a , 3b or 3c of this
provision;
(2) the authorization specifies either an individual or a posit ion having responsibility for the
overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the position of plant
manager, operator of a waste management unit, superintendent, or position of equivalent
responsibility. (A duly authorized representa tive may thus be eith er a named individual
or any individual occupying a named position); and
(3) the written authorizati on is submitted to the Board

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -4-
Waste Discharge to Land


Any person signing a document under this Section shall make the following certification:
 “I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the
information submitted in this document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of the those individuals immedi ately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe
that the information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment.”
4. Technical and monitoring reports specified in th is Order are requested pursuant to Section 13267
of the Water Code. Failing to furnish the re ports by the specified d eadlines and falsifying
information in the reports, are misdemeanors that may result in assessment of civil liabilities
against the discharger.

5. The discharger shall mail a copy of each monitori ng report and any other reports required by this
Order to:

California Regional Water Quality Control Board
Central Valley Region 11020 Sun Center Drive, #200 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670-6114
Note: Current addresses for all three Regional Board offices may be found on the internet
at http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5/contact_us.
or the current address if the office relocates.

C. Provisions for Monitoring:

1. All analyses shall be made in accord ance with the latest edition of: (1) Methods for Organic
Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industria l Wastewater (EPA 600 Series) and (2) Test
Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste (SW 846-latest edition). The test method may be modified
subject to application and appr oval of alternate test procedures under the Code of Federal
Regulations (40 CFR 136).

2. Chemical, bacteriological, and bioassay analysis shall be conducted at a laboratory certified for
such analyses by the State Department of Health Se rvices. In the event a certified laboratory is
not available to the discharger, analyses performed by a noncertifi ed laboratory will be accepted
provided a Quality Assurance-Quality Control Progr am is instituted by the laboratory. A manual
containing the steps followed in this program mu st be kept in the laboratory and shall be
available for inspection by Board staff. The Quality Assurance-Quality Control Program must conform to EPA guidelines or to procedures approved by the Board.
 Unless otherwise specified, all metals shall be reported as Total Metals.
 3. The discharger shall retain re cords of all monitoring informa tion, including all calibration and
maintenance records, all or iginal strip chart recordi ngs of continuous monitoring
instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this Order, and records of all data used to
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -5-
Waste Discharge to Land


complete the application for this Order. Reco rds shall be maintained for a minimum of three
years from the date of the sample, measurement, report, or application. This period may be
extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding this discharge or when
requested by the Regional Board Executive Officer. Record of monitoring in formation shall include:
 a. the date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements, b. the individual(s) who performed the sampling of the measurements,
c. the date(s) analyses were performed, d. the individual(s) who performed the analyses, e. the laboratory which performed the analysis, f. the analytical techni ques or methods used, and
g. the results of such analyses.

4. All monitoring instruments and devices used by the discharger to fulfill the prescribed
monitoring program shall be properly maintained a nd calibrated at least yearly to ensure their
continued accuracy.

5. The discharger shall maintain a written sampli ng program sufficient to assure compliance with
the terms of this Order. Anyone performing sampling on behalf of the discharger shall be familiar with the sampling plan.
 6. The discharger shall construct all monitoring well s to meet or exceed the standards stated in the
State Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81 and subsequent revisions, and shall comply
with the reporting provisions for wells re quired by Water Code S ections 13750 through 13755.22

D. Standard Conditions for Facilities Subject to California Code of Regulations, Title 23,
Division3, Chapter 15 (Chapter 15)

1. All classified waste management units shall be designed under the di rect supervision of a
California registered civil engine er or a California certified engineering geologist. Designs shall
include a Construction Quality Assuran ce Plan, the purpose of which is to:

a. demonstrate that the waste management unit has been constructed according to the
specifications and plans as approved by the Board.
 b. provide quality control on the materials and construction practices us ed to construct the
waste management unit and prevent the use of inferior products and/or materials which do
not meet the approved design plans or specifications.

2. Prior to the discharge of waste to any classified waste management unit, a California registered
civil engineer or a California certified engineering geologist must certify that the waste
management unit meets the construction or prescriptive standards and performance goals in Chapter 15, unless an engineered alternative has been approved by th e Board. In the case of an
engineered alternative, the regi stered civil engineer or a certif ied engineering geologist must
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -6-
Waste Discharge to Land


certify that the waste management unit has been constructed in accordance with Board-approved
plans and specifications.
 3. Materials used to construct liners shall have appropriate physi cal and chemical properties to
ensure containment of discharged wastes ove r the operating life, closure, and post-closure
maintenance period of the waste management units.
 4. Closure of each waste management unit shall be performed under the direct supervision of a
California registered civil e ngineer or a California certi fied engineering geologist.

E. Conditions Applicable to Discharge Faciliti es Exempted from Chapter 15 Under Section 2511

1. If the discharger’s wastewater treatment plan t is publicly owned or regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission, it shall be supervised and operated by persons posse ssing certificates of
appropriate grade according to California Code of Regulations, Title 23, Division 4, Chapter 14.
 2. By-pass (the intentional divers ion of waste streams from any portion of a treatment facility,
except diversions designed to meet variable effl uent limits) is prohibited. The Board may take
enforcement action against the discharger for by-pass unless:

a. (1) By-pass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property
 damage. (Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property,
 damage to the treatment facilities that cause s them to become inoperable, or substantial
 and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to occur in the
 absence of a by-pass. Severe property da mage does not mean economic loss caused by
 delays in production); and


(2) There were no feasible alternatives to by-pass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment
facilities or retention of untreated waste. This condition is not satisfied if adequate
back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering
judgment to prevent a by-pass that would otherwise occur during normal periods of
equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; or


b. (1) by-pass is required fo r essential maintenance to assure efficient operation; and

(2) neither effluent nor receivi ng water limitations are exceeded; and
 (3) the discharger notifies th e Board ten days in advance.

The permittee shall submit notice of an unanticip ated by-pass as required in paragraph B.1.
above.
 3. A discharger that wishes to es tablish the affirmative defense of an upset (see definition in E.6
below) in an action brought for noncomplian ce shall demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs , or other evidence, that:
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -7-
Waste Discharge to Land


 a. an upset occurred and the cause(s) can be identified; b. the permitted facility was being properly operated at the time of the upset; c. the discharger submitted notice of the ups et as required in paragraph B.1. above; and
 d. the discharger complied with any remedi al measures required by waste discharge
requirements.
 In any enforcement proceeding, the discharger s eeking to establish the occurrence of an upset
has the burden of proof.
 4. A discharger whose waste flow has been increas ing, or is projected to increase, shall estimate
when flows will reach hydraulic and treatmen t capacities of its treat ment, collection, and
disposal facilities. The projections shall be made in January, based on the last three years’
average dry weather flows, peak wet weather flows and total annual flows, as appropriate. When
any projection shows that capacity of any part of th e facilities may be exceeded in four years, the
discharger shall notify the Board by 31 January .
 5. Effluent samples shall be taken downstream of the last addition of wastes to the treatment or
discharge works where a representative sample ma y be obtained prior to disposal. Samples shall
be collected at such a point and in such a ma nner to ensure a representative sample of the
discharge.
 6. Definitions
a. Upset means an exceptional incident in which there is uninte ntional and temporary
noncompliance with