Wastewater
Treatment and Disposal Facilities Expansi on Project was prepared in October 1989,
followed by the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) in January 1990. The DEIR
and FEIR address the facility improvements described in the RWD. The following
mitigation measures were identified in the FEIR that was approved by Lake County.

a. Irrigation should not occur during periods of rain runoff when the irrigation runoff
collection and return system is operational to prevent surface water pollution.
 b. The city should test the water from t he monitoring well and its runoff-collection sump
for nitrate and other constituents as direct ed by the Central Valley Water Board to
prevent groundwater pollution from st orage and irrigation practices.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 13
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

c. Sludge should be removed and disposed of in a manner approved by the Central
Valley Water Board to prevent groundwater pollution from sludge disposal.

These mitigation measures are incorporated into this Order as discharge requirements to
reduce water quality impacts to less than significant levels.

45. The action by the Central Valley Water Board to adopt waste discharge requirements for
this existing facility is exempt from CE QA in accordance with California Code of
Regulations, title 14, section 15301.

46. The discharge authorized herein and the treat ment and storage facilities associated with
the discharge are exempt from the requirements of Consolidated Regulation for
Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste, as set forth in California
Code of Regulations, title 27, section 20005 et s eq. (hereafter Title 27). The exemption,
pursuant to section 20090(a) and 20090( b) is based on the following:

a. The aerated treatment ponds and st orage reservoir are exempt based on
section 20090(a) because discharges to t he treatment ponds and storage reservoir
are regulated by WDRs that are consist ent with applicable water quality objectives
and residual sludges will be discharged only in accordance with the applicable regulations.

b. The discharge of treated wastewater to the LAAs is exempt based on
section 20090(b).

i. The Central Valley Water Board has issued waste discharge requirements.
 ii. The discharge complies with the Basin Plan; and

iii. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste.

47. State regulations that pre scribe procedures for detecting and characterizing the impact of
waste constituents from wast e management units on groundwater are found in Title 27.
While the WWTF is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods of Title 27 may be
appropriate for determining whether the dischar ge complies with the terms for protection
of groundwater specified in this Order.

48. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a ve sted right to continue the discharge.

PUBLIC NOTICE

49. All of the above and details in the Informati on Sheet, which is incorporated by reference
herein, were considered in establishing the following conditions of discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 14
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

50. The Discharger and interested agencies and per sons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided
an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportuni ty to submit their written views and
recommendations.

51. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public meeting.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order 98-207 is rescinded except for purposes of enforcement,
and pursuant to Water Code sections 13263 and 13267, the City of Lakeport Municipal Sewer
District, their agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in
Division 7 of the Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the
following: [Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions , and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Prov isions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]

A. Discharge Prohibitions

1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.

2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.

3. Discharge of waste classified as “hazardous ” under California Code of Regulations, title
23, chapter 15, section 2521, or “designat ed,” as defined in Water Code section 13173
is prohibited.

4. Discharge of wastewater to locations or in a manner different from that described in the
Findings is prohibited.

5. Discharge of toxic substances into the wast ewater treatment system such that biological
treatment mechanisms are disrupted is prohibited.

6. Effective 1 December 2013, grazing of livestock within the LAAs is prohibited unless
approved in writing by the Executive Office r subsequent to submittal of the report
described in Provision H.1.e.

B. Discharge Specifications

1. Influent flows to the wastewater treatment ponds shall not exceed the following

Flow Measurement
 Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 310 million gallons
Average Dry Weather Flow 2 0.53 million gallons per day
Maximum Average Daily Flow 3 1.39 million gallons per day

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 15
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow for the months of August through October, inclusive, divided by 92
days.
3 As determined by the total flow during the calendar divided by the number of days in that month.

2. Wastewater treatment, stor age, and disposal shall not cause a nuisance or condition of
pollution as defined by the Water Code, section 13050.

3. The discharge shall not cause degradation of any water supply.

4. The discharge shall remain within the permi tted waste treatment/containment structures
and land application areas at all times.

5. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as
fences, signs, or acceptable alternatives.

6. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released
or discharged, in a concentration or in a ma ss that causes violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.

7. Objectionable odors originating at the facility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the property at an intensity that creates or threatens to create nuisance conditions.

8. As a means of discerning compliance wit h Discharge Specification B.7, the dissolved
oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall not be less than
1.0 mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive sampli ng events, the Discharger shall report the
findings to the Central Valley Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall include a
specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.

9. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.

10. All conveyance, treatment, storage, and disposal facilities shall be designed,
constructed, operated, and maintained to pr event inundation or washout due to floods
with a 100-year return frequency.

11. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the integrity of
containment levees and prevent overt opping and/or structural failure.

12. The operating freeboard in t he treatment ponds shall never be less than two feet as
measured vertically from the water surface to the lowest point of overflow. The operating freeboard in the effluent storage reservoir shall never be less than one foot as measured vertically from the water surface to the lowest point of overflow. As a means
of management and to discern compliance with this requirement, the Discharger shall
install and maintain in each pond a permanent staff gauge with calibration marks that
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 16
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

clearly show the water level at design c apacity and enable determination of available
operational freeboard.

13. The treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall have sufficient capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation, and
ancillary inflow and infiltration during the winter while ensuring continuous compliance
with all requirements of this Order. Design s easonal precipitation shall be based on total
annual precipitation using a return peri od of 100 years, distributed monthly in
accordance with historical rainfall patterns.

14. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications B.12 and B.13.

15. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control program shall be im plemented to ensure that small coves and
irregularities are not cr eated around the perimeter of the water surface.

b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or herbicides.

c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.

d. The Discharger shall consult and coordi nate with the local Mosquito Abatement
District to minimize the potential for mos quito breeding as needed to supplement the
above measures.

16. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal berms that
separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall be designed and
constructed under the supervision of a California Registered Civil Engineer.

17. Wastewater contained in any unlined pond s hall not have a pH less than 6.0 or greater
than 9.0.

18. The Discharger shall monitor sludge accumulation in the wastewater treatment/storage
ponds at least every five years beginning in 2012 , and shall periodically remove sludge
as necessary to maintain adequate storage capac ity. Specifically, if the estimated
volume of sludge in the reservoir exceeds five percent of the permitted reservoir
capacity, the Discharge shall complete sludge cleanout within 12 months after the date
of the estimate.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 17
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

C. Land Application Area Specifications

1. Irrigation with treated wastewater shall be managed to minimize erosion, runoff, and
movement of aerosols from the land application area.

2. Application of treated wast ewater shall comply with the following setback requirements:
Setback Definition Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of LAAs1 to domestic well 50
Edge of LAAs1 to any surface water drainage course2 50
Edge of LAAs1 to a residence or place where public exposure
could be similar to that of a park, playground, or school yard. 100

1 As defined by the wetted ar ea produced during irrigation.
2 Excluding ditches used exclusively for tailwater return.
3. The volume of treated wastewater appli ed to the LAAs on any single day shall not
exceed reasonable agronomic rates based on the vegetation grown, pre-discharge soil
moisture conditions, and weather conditions.
 4. The discharge of treated wastewater to t he LAAs shall be at reasonable agronomic rates
designed to maximize uptake and breakdown of plant nutrients in the root zone and
minimize the percolation of waste constituents below the root zone.
 5. Irrigation of treated wastew ater shall not be performed within 24 hours of a forecasted
storm, during a storm, and within 24 hours afte r any measurable precipitation event, or
when the ground is saturated.

6. All applied irrigation water must infiltrate before the next irrigation event. No irrigation
shall be performed if the LAAs is saturated, or if there is evidence of pooling or ponding.

7. Spray irrigation of treated wastewater is prohibited during periods when wind velocities
exceed 30 miles per hour.

8. From 1 October to 31 May , the recapture basin valves shall remain in the closed
position during and immediately following irrigat ion to contain all tailwater. Tailwater
shall be pumped and drained from the recaptur e basins prior to opening the valve to
allow release of subsequent storm water runoff via the tailwater collection system.

9. Areas irrigated with treated wastewater shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. More specifically,

a. Tailwater must be returned and all applied irrigation water must infiltrate completely
within a 48-hour period.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 18
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

b. Ditches not serving as wildlife habita t should be maintained free of emergent,
marginal and floating vegetation.

c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes
shall not be used to store reclaimed water.

D. Water Recycling Specifications

1. Effective 1 December 2013, the specifications of this section apply in addition to the
Land Application Area Specifications.

2. The use of reclaimed water shall be limited to pasture.

3. Notwithstanding the followi ng requirements, the production, distribution, and use of
recycled water shall conform to an Engineer ing Report prepared pursuant to California
Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60323 and approved by the California Department
of Public Health.

4. Recycled water shall be used in compliance with California Code of Regulations title 22,
section 60304. Specifically, uses of recycled wa ter shall be limited to those set forth in
section(s) 60304(a), 60304(b), 60304(c), and 60304(d).

5. Use areas shall be inspected as frequently as necessary to ensure continuous
compliance with the requirements of this Order.

6. Use areas and recycled water impoundments shall be designed, maintained, and
operated to comply with the fo llowing setback requirements.
Setback Definition Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of use area to property boundary. 25
Edge of use area to public road right of way 30
Edge of use area to natural surface water drainage course. 50
Edge of use area to domestic water supply well. 100
Toe of recycled water impoundment berm to domestic water
supply well. 100
Edge of use area to residence. 100
Edge of use area using spray irrigation to public park, playground,
school yard, or similar place of potential public exposure. 100

7. Spray irrigation with recycled water is prohibited when wind speed (including gusts)
exceeds 30 mph.

8. Sprinkler heads shall be of the type approved for recycled water and shall create a
minimum amount of mist.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 19
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

9. Direct or windblown spray shall be conf ined to the designated reclamation area and
prevented from contacting dr inking water facilities.

10. Public contact with reclaimed water shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and irrigation management practices. Fences and sign requirements, including
signs with proper wording of sufficient size and its location, shall be in accordance with
CDPH requirements.

11. Use areas that are accessible to the public shall be posted with signs that are visible to
the public and no less than four inches high by eight inches wide. Signs shall be placed
at all areas of public access and around the perimeter of all use areas and at above-
ground portions of recycled water conveyances to alert the public of the use of recycled
water. All signs shall display an international symbol similar to that shown in Attachment
D, which is attached and forms part of this Order, and shall include the flowing working:

“RECYLED WATER – DO NOT DRINK”
“AGUA DE DESPERDICIO RECLAMADA – NO TOME”

12. All recycling equipment, pumps, piping, valves, and outlets shall be marked to
differentiate them from potable water facilit ies. All recycled water distribution system
piping shall be purple pipe or adequately wrapped with purple tape.

13. Recycled water controllers, valves, and similar appurtenances shall be affixed with
reclaimed water warning signs as required by CDPH. The wastewater reclamation
system shall be secured in a manner that permits operation by authorized personnel
only and prevents operations that would cause a violation of this Order.

14. Quick couplers, if used, shall be differ ent than those used in potable water systems.

15. Hose bibs and unlocked valves, if used, shall not be used in areas accessible to the
public.

16. No physical connection shall exist between recycled water piping and any potable water
supply system (including domestic wells), or between recycled water piping and any irrigation well that does not have an approved air gap or reduced pressure principle device.

17. There shall be at least a ten-foot horiz ontal and a one-foot vert ical separation between
all pipelines transporting recycled water and t hose transporting domestic supply, and the
domestic supply pipeline shall be located above the recycled water pipeline.

18. No physical connection shall be made or allowed to exist between any recycled water
system and any separate conveying potable water or auxiliary water source system.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 20
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

19. A public water supply shall not be used as backup or supplemental source of water for a
recycled water system unless the connection between the two systems is protected by
an air gap separation which complies with t he requirements of California Code of
Regulations title 17,sections 7602(a) and 7603(a).

20. All recycled water piping and appurtenances in new installations and appurtenances in
retrofit installations shall be colored purpl e or distinctively wrapped with purple tape in
accordance with California Health and Safety Code Section 4049.54.

21. Any backflow prevention device installed to protect a public water system shall be
inspected and maintained in accordance with California Code of Regulations title 17 section 7605.
E. Solids/Sludge Disposal Specifications

1. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during prelim inary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that
will not be subject to further treatment at the fa cility. Biosolids refers to sludge that has
undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to federal and
state regulations as a soil am endment for agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and land
recycling.

2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, and ponds as needed to
ensure optimal plant operation and adequate hydraulic capacity.

3. Treatment and storage of sludge generated by the WWTF shall be confined to the
WWTF property, and shall be conducted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soils in a mass or at a concentration that will violate the Groundwater
Limitations of this Order.

4. Any storage of residual sludge, solid wast e, and biosolids at the facility shall be
temporary, and the waste shall be controll ed and contained in a manner that minimizes
leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
at concentrations that will violate the Gr oundwater Limitations of this Order.

5. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for further treatment,
disposal, or reuse at disposal sites (i.e., landfills, WWTFs, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in accordance with valid waste discharge requirements
issued by a regional water quality contro l board will satisfy this specification.

6. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste discharge
requirements issued by a regional water quality control board. In most cases, this will
mean the General Biosolids Order (State Wa ter Resources Control Board Water Quality
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0025 21
CITY OF LAKEPORT MUNICIPAL SEWER DISTRICT
LAKEPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY LAKE COUNTY

Order 2000-10-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Require ments for the Discharge of
Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural,
and Land Reclamation Activities ). For a biosolids use project to be covered by the
General Biosolids Order, the Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and
receive a Notice of Applicability for each project.

7. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self-implementi ng federal regulations
of Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 503, which are subject to
enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the regional water quality board. If during the life of
this Order, the State accepts primacy for implementation of 40 CFR 503, then the
regional water quality board may also in itiate enforcement where appropriate.

F.