management requirements pursuant to Sect ion 25143 of the Health and Safety
Code.
b. Non-hazardous waste that consists of, or contains, pollutants that, under ambient
environmental conditions at a waste m anagement unit, could be released in
concentrations exceeding applicable water quality objectives or could reasonably be
expected to affect beneficial uses of t he waters of the St ate contained in the
appropriate water quality control plan.
59. Pursuant to section 20090(a) of Title 27, CCR, the discharge of domestic sewage or
treated effluent associated with municipal wastewater treatm ent plants is exempt from
Title 27, provided any result ing degradation of gr oundwater is in accordance with the
Basin Plan and the waste need not be managed as a hazardous waste. As described
above in the Antidegradation se ction, the treated wastewat er discharge complies with
the Basin Plan. The treated wastewater does not need to be treated as a hazardous waste. The discharge of treat ed wastewater is thus exempt from Title 27 requirements.
60. Finding 19 indicates that wastewater sludge wil l be dewatered by centrifuge and solar
dried and stored in a clay-lined pond prior to application as biosol ids to land. Lined
ponds can be considered BPTC. As descr ibed above, the Discharger’s engineering
consultant has indicated that the clay-lined pond wi ll contain all leachate. However, the
Discharger needs to provide data regardi ng the pond’s clay liner construction and
performance.
61. Provision G.11 of this Order incorporates a compliance schedule that requires the
Discharger to show that it s sludge/biosolids treatment and storage practices are exempt
from Title 27 requirements or, if it cannot, to modify its liner as necessary to meet
exemption requirements or to fully implement Title 27 containment.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -14-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY KERN COUNTY


CEQA
62. The Discharger adopted a Final Environmental Impact Report (EIR) in 1985 in
accordance with the California Environmen tal Quality Act (Public Resources Code
Section 21000, et seq.). Central Valley Water Board staff reviewed the EIR and
concurred that the EIR had addressed issues wit h regards to potential impacts to water
quality.
63. In 1999, in anticipation of the upgrade of the WW TF, the Discharger filed a Notice of
Exemption for the upgraded WWTF. The di scharge described in these WDRs is
consistent with the Notice of Exemption because:
a. This Order does not authorize expansi on of the Prison’s wa stewater treatment
capacity and land appli cation areas; and
b. This Order limits the discharge flow to an equivalent daily flow of no more than
1.1 mgd, which is no more than the hi ghest yearly average flow since 2007, and
which is the same as the fl ow limitation in the current WDRs (Order No. 88-035).
Therefore, the action to revise waste discharge requirements for this existing facility is
exempt from the provisions of the California Environmen tal Quality Act (CEQA), in
accordance with Title 14, California Code of Regulations (CCR), section 15301.
64. Additionally, this Order includes require ments to protect wate r quality, including:
a.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

