Existing Facility and Discharge
6. Sewage from the community flows by gravity sewer to a wet well lift station at the WWTF,
which has two pumps to pump the wastewater to the WWTF. The existing WWTF consists
of eight wastewater stabilization ponds1 on approximately 20 acres and a 31.5-acre
spreading basin. The facility site plan is show n on Attachment B, which is attached hereto
and made part of this Order by reference.

1 Laugenour and Meikle, the engineers of record for the WWTF, developed a particular pond numbering system,
and have consistently used t hat system in the RWD and all design and record drawings. However, the
Discharger uses a different pond numbering system for operation and monitoring purposes, and has done so
for several years. In order to be consistent with the Discharger’s act ual operations, this Order uses the
Discharger’s pond numbering system. Therefore, pond num bers used in the Findings of this Order may not
match those used in the RWD. Attach ment B shows both numbering systems.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 2
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


7. The stabilization ponds are operated as two parallel passive stabilization systems with four
ponds each. Influent wastewater is split bet ween the two primary ponds, which have a
total depth of 11 feet and an operating depth of eight feet (including accumulated sludge).
The other six ponds have a total depth of ei ght feet and a five-foot operating depth.
According to the RWD, three feet of freeboard is maintained at all times.
8. The 31.5-acre spreading basin receives overfl ow from the eight existing ponds during the
wet season only. The berm that surrounds t he spreading area is approximately three feet
above the surrounding grade and the depth varies from three to five feet below the top of
the containment berm.
9. The WWTF does not use aerators or other active treatment systems. Reduction of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) is achieved through atmospheric oxygen diffusion during ext ended retention in the WWTF ponds. The
wastewater is not disinfected.

10. An influent flow meter was installed in February 2007. Prior to that, the Discharger
estimated influent flows based on pump run times. The winter of 2006/2007 was a relatively dry season with only 8.6 inches of rain from November 2006 through March 2007 and little rainfall thereafter. Therefore, flow monitoring data collected by the Discharger from April 2007 through June 2007 may pr ovide the most accurate estimate of
the current average daily dry weather flow. Based on these data, the current average
daily dry weather flow is estimated to be 80, 000 gallons per day (gpd). This estimate
correlates well with the average daily dry weather flows for 2005 and 2006, which were developed based on pump run time estimates.
11. There is not sufficient accurate flow moni toring data to assess wet weather influent flows
as a function of precipitation. Howeve r, the influent pump run time and monthly
precipitation data for the unusually wet winter of 2005/2006 indicate a strong precipitation-
dependent increase in influent flows with a lag of th ree to four months. This indicates that
rising groundwater levels during extended periods of heavy rainfall can cause significant infiltration of groundwater into the Kni ghts Landing sanitary sewer system. It also
indicates that the lowest monthly influent flows for this facility can be expected to occur in August through October each year unless the in filtration rate is reduced from current
levels.
12. Based on the infiltration and inflow (I/I) estimation method required per the Yolo County
Improvement Standards, the RWD estimated the daily infiltration rate at 27,000 gpd from November through April during normal rainfall y ears. This appears to be reasonable as a
preliminary estimate. However, further flow monitoring over several years, including some
years with higher than normal prec ipitation, is needed to provide data for a more thorough
analysis of I/I and its potential impact on WWTF capacity.
13. In 2002, 119 tons of sludge were removed from Pond 1 and disposed of at a local landfill.
In 2005, 289 tons of sludge were removed from Pond 2 and similarly disposed. The RWD
estimates that sludge removal should be undertaken again in 2012, and proposes to use part of the spreading basin as a temporary sludge drying bed during the summer. Ponds 1
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 3
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


and 2 are the primary ponds and can be expected to accumulate sludge faster than the
“downstream” ponds. Sludge levels in the other six ponds have not been evaluated.
Because the ponds are operated as two sets of four ponds in series, the six “downstream”
ponds can also accumulate sludge, which might ultimately affect the capacity of the
WWTF. Therefore, it is appropriate to requi re that the Discharger periodically evaluate
sludge levels in all wastewater ponds and remove sludge as needed to ensure adequate
capacity.
 Chemical Characteristics
14. Based on analytical results for three samp les (one from each supply well), which were
tested in February 2006, the chemical characte r of the municipal water supply, which is
obtained from three groundwater wells, is summarized below.
Parameter Units Range of Results
Total dissolved solids mg/L 320 to 760
Electrical conductivity 1 umhos/cm 500 to 1,200
Total hardness mg/L 101 to 416
Total alkalinity mg/L 238 to 271
Boron ug/L 880 to 1,760
Calcium mg/L 19 to 63
Chloride mg/L 38 to 200
Magnesium mg/L 13 to 63
Sodium mg/L 66 to 83
Iron ug/L <100 to 130
Manganese ug/L 20 to 140
Nitrate mg/L <2 to 2.3
Sulfate mg/L 14 to 100
 1 Estimated from TDS concentrations using and assumed conversion factor of 1.56.
The community water supply is moderately saline and moderately hard, and high concentrations of boron were reported. The reason for the apparent wide variation
between the wells is not known, but may be associated with different well designs (i.e., dissimilar depths and/or screened intervals). The prevalence of non-regenerating water
softeners, which can contribute excess salin ity to the WWTF influent, is not known.
15. According to the RWD, commercial and indus trial wastewater contributions to the WWTF
are minimal, and influent wastewater quality is mo st similar to typical domestic wastewater.
Influent characterization data for 18 wastewat er samples analyzed between February and
June 2007 are summarized below.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 4
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


Analytical Results
Constituent/Parameter Minimum Maximum Mean
BOD (mg/L) 59 700 292
Total Suspended Solids (mg/L) 42 1,100 337
Electrical Conductivity (umhos/cm) 1 931 1,519 1,249

 Analytical Results (single sample 2)
Sodium, mg/L 96
Iron, ug/L 560
Boron, ug/L 1,500
Chloride, mg/L 122
Manganese, ug/L 40
Total nitrogen, mg/L 9
Total suspended solids, mg/L 101
1 Based on monitoring results for the two primary ponds (Ponds 1 and 2).
2 Based on a single sample obtained in March 2007.
The cause of the apparent large variation in BO D, TSS, and electrical conductivity in the
two primary ponds is not known. However, because the influent samples are taken as
grab samples from the ponds, the variability may be due to changes in the
dilution/evapoconcentration state of the wastewater associated with weather variation through the year. Based on these data, use of the municipal water supply does not appear to cause an unreasonable incremental increase in salinity as measured in the WWTF influent.
16. Effluent characterization data for 17 wast ewater samples analyzed between February and
June 2007 are summarized below.
Analytical Results 1
Constituent/Parameter Minimum Maximum Mean
Electrical Conductivity (umhos/cm) 1,329 2,184 1,600
 Analytical Results (single sample 2)
Sodium, mg/L 199
Boron, ug/L 2,700
Chloride, mg/L 217
Total nitrogen, mg/L 9
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 5
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


Analytical Results 1
Constituent/Parameter Minimum Maximum Mean
Total suspended solids, mg/L 101
1 Based on monitoring results for 18 wastewater samples taken from the last two ponds (Ponds 7 and
8).
2 Based on a single sample obtained in May 2007.
The electrical conductivity, sodium, boron, and chloride data indicate that
evapoconcentration as the wastewater flows from the primary ponds through to the final ponds increases the overall salinity of the wa stewater significantly beyond concentrations
that would be considered a reas onable increment over the water supply concentrations.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in Discharge
17. The Discharger plans to expand the existing WWTF to serve a new residential subdivision.
The subdivision is expected to increase the population served by the WWTF from
approximately 1,018 to 1,320.
18. The WWTF treatment and disposal capacity will be increased by converting part of the
existing 31.5-acre land spreading area to two percolation/evaporation ponds (Ponds 9 and 10). The remainder will continue to be used as land spreading area when needed. The walls of the headworks structure will be raised by one foot to provide 100-year flood protection. The rest of the WW TF is outside the 100-year floodplain.
19. Pond 9 will have a surface area of approxim ately 5.0 acres and a maximum volume of
31 acre-feet at two feet of freeboard. P ond 10 will have a surface area of approximately
4.5 acres and a maximum volume of 30 acre-feet at two feet of freeboard
20. The Discharger has completed a water bal ance for the expanded facility to demonstrate
that adequate treatment, storage and disposal capac ity is available for the new subdivision
and other future developments. The wate r balance was prepared based on reasonable
estimates of site-specific influent flows, pr ecipitation, evaporation, percolation, and
groundwater infiltration into the sewer syst em. The water balance was used to model
storage and disposal capacity during the 100- year, 365-day precipitation event. The
model indicates that the expanded WWTF will hav e sufficient capacity for 105,000 gpd as
an average daily dry weather flow (from August through October each year) and 48.4 million gallons (MG) as a total annual influent flow (including I/I).
21. The WWTF Operation and Maintenance Manual submitted with the Report of Waste
Discharge is over 30 years old and needs to be updated to address the expansion and other facility improvements, and to delete references to waste management practices that are no longer allowed (e.g., onsite burial of scum and sludges with dead animals).
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 6
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


22. According to the RWD, the lift station wet well, wet well overflow sump, and sewer system
provide a reserve storage capacit y of approximately eight hours at current influent flows.
In the event of a power failure, a standby generator and pump can be used to transfer
sewage from the wet well to the primary ponds. The Discharger plans to install an
autodialer system to notify the plant operator of any alarm conditions.
Wastewater Collection System
23. The Knights Landing sewer system consists of 6-, 8-, and 10-inch vitrified clay pipe that
connects to a 12-inch gravity interceptor. The interceptor discharges into the main lift
station at the WWTF for distri bution to the treatment ponds.
24. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system el ements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells , regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines,
etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not
considered sanitary sewer overflows, provi ded that the waste is fully contained within
these temporary storage/conveyance facilities. Sanitary sewer overflow is also defined in
State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ, Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems . The
Internet web location for State Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ is: http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/r esdec/wqorders/2006/wqo/wqo2006_0003.pdf .
25. Sanitary sewer overflows consist of varying mixtures of domestic and commercial
wastewater, depending on land uses in the sewage collection system. The chief causes of
sanitary sewer overflows include grease blo ckages, root blockages, debris blockages,
sewer line flood damage, manhole structure failu res, vandalism, pump station mechanical
failures, power outages, storm or groundwater in flow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or
contractor caused blockages.
26. Sanitary sewer overflows often contai n high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic
organisms, toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and
grease, and other pollutants. Sanitary se wer overflows can cause temporary exceedance
of applicable water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect
aquatic life, and impair the public recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface
waters in the area.
27. The Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate,
and prevent discharges from its sanitary sewer collection system. This Order requires the Discharger to prepare and implement a Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP)
consistent with State Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ. Although State Water
Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ does not require that the overflow emergency response
program portion of the SSMP be completed bef ore February 2010, it is appropriate to
require that the Discharger submit this portion of the SSMP sooner because the
Discharger currently has no specific plan to respond to sanitary sewer overflows. Because
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 7
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


of the small size of the sewer system, requi ring this portion of the SSMP earlier will not be
overly burdensome to the Discharger.
Site-Specific Conditions
28. The WWTF site is at an elevation ranging from approximately 26 to 28 feet mean sea level
(MSL), and the area is relatively flat with dr ainage toward the Sacramento River. Because
of the extensive levee protection in the ar ea, drainage enters agricultural drains from
where it can be pumped into the river.
29. The facility is adjacent to the Knights Landing Ridge Cut, which carries drainage from local
agricultural fields into the Sacramento River.
30. Annual precipitation in the vicinity averages approximately 17 inches. The 100-year total
annual precipitation is approximately 32 inches. The reference evapotranspiration rate is
approximately 55 inches per year.
31. Based on the National Resource Conservati on Service soil survey, the soils at the WWTF
are Clear Lake clay, Sacramento clay (drained), and Sycamore silty clay loam (drained).
Published infiltration rates for the soils are le ss than 0.6 inches per hour (or 14.4 inches
per day). The RWD estimates that the wast ewater pond percolation rates are 3.0 inches
per day as a sustained pond percolation rate.
32. After the headworks improvements have been co mpleted, all portions of the WWTF will be
outside the 100-year flood zone.
33. The WWTF is surrounded by agricultural fields.
Groundwater Considerations
34. There are currently three gr oundwater monitoring wells at the facility, which were installed
in 1986 (see Attachment B). The three wells are completed to a depth of approximately
70 feet below the top of the wastewater pond berm, and are screened from 15 to 65 feet
below that reference elevation.
35. Based on the RWD’s analysis of groundwat er monitoring data for April 2000 through
November 2006, groundwater elevations at the WWTF typically range between 16.5 and
23.7 feet above mean sea level (MSL), which corresponds to a groundwater depth ranging
from 7 to 14 feet below the su rrounding (undisturbed) ground surface.
36. The gradient direction of the shallow groundwater varied from east to southwest, but did
not exhibit a consistent seasonal variation. The gradient magnitude varied from 0.002 to
0.0003 ft/ft. The Knights Landing Ridge Cut, which parallels the WWTF along its entire
length (see Attachment B), may strongly infl uence groundwater levels and flow directions.
37. Based on the shallow depth of the water table, the variable groundwater flow direction,
and the proximity of the wells to the wast ewater ponds, none of the three wells is
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 8
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


consistently upgradient or downgr adient of the discharge area. Monitoring well MW-1, at
the northwest end of the WWTF, is predominantly upgradient, but is within about 40 feet of
the primary ponds. MW-2 is near the southeas t corner of the first eight ponds, and is
sometimes down gradient of the ponds. MW-3, near the southwest corner of the first eight
ponds, is also sometimes downgradient of t he ponds. Recent groundwater monitoring
data (six events from February 2006 th rough May 2007) are summarized below.
 Range of Analytical Results 1
Constituent/Parameter MW-1 MW-2 MW-3 Applicable
Water
Quality
Limit 1, 2
Total coliform organisms 3 <2 to >1,600 <2 to >1,600 <2 to 130 2.2
Electrical conductivity 4 1,080 to 1,220 1,600 to 2,030 1,700 to 2,020 700
Total dissolved solids 5 650 to 710 990 to 1,020 1,010 to 1,040 450
Nitrate nitrogen <0.45 to 2.3 <0.1 to 3.8 <0.1 to <0.45 10
Sodium 6 3 302 350 69
Iron 6, 7 <50 80 60 300
Boron 6, 7 2,740 4,310 3,890 700
Chloride 6 44 280 228 106
Manganese 6, 7 540 770 250 50
1 mg/L except as noted.
2 Water quality limit to apply the narrative water quality objectives specified in the Basin Plan for protection
of the beneficial uses of groundwater.
3 MPN per 100 mL.
4 umhos/cm.
5 Results are from two monitoring events in February and May 2007.
6 Results are from one monitoring event in February 2007.
7 ug/L
Despite the apparent inadequacy of the existing monitoring well network, the results for
electrical conductivity, total dissolved so lids, sodium, iron, chloride, and manganese
strongly indicate that the WWTF has degraded groundwater quality. In the case of sodium
and chloride, the degradation appears to have ex ceeded the applicable water quality limit.
Additionally, coliform organisms were rout inely detected in wells MW-2 and MW-3,
whereas they were only detected in MW-1 once.
Therefore, it is appropriate to require that the Discharger install additional monitoring wells
designed to consistently monitor groundwater up- and downgradient of the wastewater
ponds, including the two new ponds. It is also appropriate, after sufficient data have been
collected, to require a formal determinat ion of background groundwater quality and the
degree to which degradation has occurred. In the interim, it is appropriate to require that
the Discharger not allow the salin ity of the influent and effluent to increase, and to require
that the Discharger develop and begin to im plement a salinity minimization plan.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 9
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY



Antidegradation Analysis
38. State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16 (“Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality
Waters of the State”) (hereafter Resolution No. 68-16) requires a regional water board in
regulating the discharge of waste to mainta in high quality waters of the state (i.e.,
background water quality) until it is dem onstrated that any change in quality will be
consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not unreasonably affect
beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality less than as described in plans and
policies, including water quality objectives in the applicable Basin Plan. The discharge is
required to meet waste dischar ge requirements that will result in the best practicable
treatment or control of the discharge necessa ry to assure that pollution or nuisance will
not occur and highest water quality consistent with maximum benefit to the people will be
maintained. It is the responsibility of t he Discharger to provide information for the
Regional Water Board to evaluate whether any degradation caused by the discharge is
consistent with this policy, as well as the amount of degradation that would be consistent.
39. There is evidence that the existing WW TF has degraded groundwater quality with respect to
salinity indicators (electrical conductivity, tota l dissolved solids, sodium, chloride, and boron);
iron and manganese (indicators of acidic or reducing soil conditions in the limited vadose zone below the ponds), and coliform organisms (pathogen indicators that have not been
adequately filtered due to the limit ed depth of fine-grained soils below the WWTF). In the
case of certain salinity indicators (electrical conductivity, total dissolved solids, sodium, and chloride), it appears that the discharge has caus ed groundwater to exceed the applicable
water quality limits.
40. Some degradation of groundwater beneath t he WWTF is consistent with Resolution
No. 68-16 provided that degradation:
a. Is confined to a reasonable area;
b. Is minimized by means of full implementation, regular main tenance, and optimal
operation of best practicable treatment and control (BPTC) measures;
c. Is limited to waste constituents typica lly encountered in municipal wastewater as
specified in the groundwater lim itations of this Order; and
d. Does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in the applicable Basin Plan.
41. In general, some degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents
released with discharge from a municipal wastewat er utility after effective source control,
treatment, and control is consistent with maxi mum benefit to the people of California. The
technology, energy, water recycling, and wast e management advantages of municipal utility
service far exceed any benefits derived from a community otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater syst ems, and the impact on water quality will be
substantially less. Degradation of groundwater by constituents (e.g., toxic chemicals) other
than those specified in the groundw ater limitations in this Order, and by constituents that can
be effectively removed by conventional treatment (e.g., total coliform bacteria) is inconsistent
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 10
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


with maximum benefit and/or BPTC. When a llowed, the degree of degradation permitted
depends upon many factors (i.e., background wate r quality, the waste constituent, the
beneficial uses and most stringent applicable wa ter quality objective, source control
measures, waste constituent treatability).
42. This Order acknowledges that some degradation may occur as a result of the discharge of
wastewater to land, but the Regional Board finds that such degradation at this facility is
consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state. Economic prosperity of local
communities and associated industry is of benefit to the people of California, and therefore
sufficient reason exists to accommodate growth and some groundwater degradation,
provided that the terms of the Basin Plan and the factors in Finding No. 40 are met. This
Order is consistent with State Water Board policy.
Treatment and Control Practices
43. The facility treats wastewater to secondar y standards through passive treatment, but its
design and the Discharger’s operational practices do not incorporate any specific measures to reduce the potential for groundwat er degradation. Because of the shallow
water table, there is minimal potential for c onstituent attenuation in the vadose zone, and
there is evidence that groundwater has been degr aded. In addition, the appropriate level
of degradation that complies with Resolution No. 68-16 has not been fully evaluated.
Therefore, the Discharger’s current effort probably does not constitute BPTC as intended
in Resolution No. 68-16, and is it appropriate for this Order to establish a schedule for tasks to formally evaluate groundwater degr adation, develop and begin to implement a
salinity reduction program, and evaluate BPTC for the other constituents that have
degraded groundwater quality (i ron, manganese, boron, and coliform organisms).
Completion of these tasks, and implementation of the approved strategies developed from
that work, will ensure that BPTC and the hi ghest water quality consistent with the
maximum benefit to the people of the State will be achieved.
44. This Order establishes interim effluent lim itations for salinity and interim groundwater
limitations that will not unreas onably threaten present and antic ipated beneficial uses or
result in groundwater quality that exceeds wate r quality objectives set forth in the Basin
Plan. The Provisions of this Order cont ain tasks for assuring that BPTC and the highest
water quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State will be
achieved. Accordingly, the discharge is c onsistent with the antidegradation provisions of
Resolution No. 68-16. Based on the results of the scheduled tasks, the Regional Water
Board may reopen this Order to reconsider effluent and groundwater limitations and other
requirements to comply with Resolution No. 68-16.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
45. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacram ento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fourth Edition , (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality
objectives, contains implementation plans and po licies for protecting waters of the basin,
and incorporates by reference plans and po licies adopted by the State Water Board.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 11
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


Pursuant to Section 13263(a) of the Californi a Water Code, waste discharge requirements
must implement the Basin Plan.
46. Surface water drainage is to the Sacrament o River near its confluence with the Colusa
Basin Drain. The beneficial uses of that r each of the Sacramento Riv er are municipal and
domestic supply; agricultural supply; wa ter contact recreation; noncontact water
recreation; warm and cold freshwater habitat; migration of aquatic organisms; spawning,
reproduction, and/or early developm ent; wildlife habitat; and navigation.
47. The beneficial uses of the underlying gr oundwater are municipal and domestic supply
(MUN), agricultural supply (AGR), and industrial supply (IND and PRO).
48. The Basin Plan establishes numerical and na rrative water quality objectives for surface
water and groundwater within the basin. Nume rical water quality objectives are maximum
limits directly applicable to the protection of designated beneficial uses of the water. The
Basin Plan requires that the Regional Wate r Board, on a case-by-case basis, follow
specified procedures to determine maximum numerical limitations that apply the narrative
objectives when it adopts waste discharge requirements.
49. The Basin Plan includes a water quality objective for Bacteria that requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven-day period shall be less
than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater. The applicability of this objective to
groundwater designated as MUN has been affi rmed by State Water Board Order No.
WQO-2003-0014 and by subsequent decisions of the Sacramento County Superior Court and California Court of Appeal, 3rd Appellate District. The numerical value of this
objective is equal to the limit of analytical detection for coliform organisms in water. Well sited and operated facilities that discharge treated domestic wastewater to land should not cause detectable levels of coliform organisms in groundwater due to adequate filtration in the vadose zone. Therefore, a coliform limit of less than 2.2 MPN/100 mL is consistent
with both the water quality objective for Bact eria and antidegradation directives of State
Water Board Resolution No. 68-16.
50. The Basin Plan includes a water quality objec tive for Chemical Constituents that, at a
minimum, requires waters designated as dom estic or municipal supply to meet the
maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) specified in the following provisions of Title 22,
California Code of Regulations: Tables 64431-A (Inorganic Chemicals) and 64431-B (Fluoride) of Section 64431, Table 64444-A (Organic Chemicals) of Section 64444, Table 64449-A (Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level s-Consumer Acceptance Limits) of
Section 64449, and 64449-B (Secondary Maximum Contaminant Levels-Ranges) of Section 64449. The Basin Plan’s incorporati on of these provisions by reference is
prospective, and includes future changes to the incorporated provisions as the changes take effect. The Basin Plan recognizes that that the Regional Water Board may apply
limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical
constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.
51. The Basin Plan contains narrative water quality objectives for Chemical Constituents,
Tastes and Odors, and Toxicity. The Toxici ty objective, in summary, requires that
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 12
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


groundwater be maintained free of toxic subs tances in concentrations that produce
detrimental physiological responses in human, plant, animal, or aquatic life associated
with designated beneficial uses. The Chemical Constituents objective requires that
groundwater “…shall not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely
affect beneficial uses.” The Tastes and Odors objective requires that groundwater
“…shall not contain taste- or odor-producing substances in concentrations that cause
nuisance or adversely affect beneficial uses.”
52. Chapter IV, Implementation, of the Basin Plan contains the “Policy for Application of Water
Quality Objectives.” This Policy specifies, in part, that “[w]here compliance with these
narrative objectives is required (i.e., where the objectives are applicable to protect specified beneficial uses), the Regional Wate r Board will, on a case-by-case basis, adopt
numerical limitations in orders which will implement the narrative objectives.” The Policy also states:
“[t]o evaluate compliance with the narrative water quality objectives, the
Regional Water Board considers, on a ca se-by-case basis, direct evidence of
beneficial use impacts, all material and relevant information submitted by the discharger and other interested parties, and relevant numerical criteria and
guidelines developed and/or published by other agencies and organizations…” and
“[i]n considering such criteria, the Board evaluates whether the specific numerical criteria, which are avail able through these sources and through
other information supplied to the Board, are relevant and appropriate to the situation at hand and, therefore, s hould be used in determining compliance
with the narrative objective. For example, compliance with the narrative objective for taste and odor may be evaluated by comparing concentrations of pollutants in water with numerical taste and odor thresholds that have been published by other agencies.”
53. To apply narrative water quality objectives, interim numerical limits in this order have been
selected based on case-specific information, including applicable beneficial uses of
groundwater beneath the facility and information provided by the Discharger. Based on the information available and consistent with Re solution No. 68-16, interim numerical limits
have been selected to protect the beneficial us es and prevent degradation. State Water
Board Resolution No. 68-16 requires that ex isting water quality be maintained unless
specific demonstrations are made, and does not allow degradation that would impair beneficial uses or violate applicable policies, including water quality objectives. In the future, should the Discharger supply case-spec ific information justifying that alternate
limits are more appropriate, these interi m numerical limits may be reevaluated.
54. State Board Order No .WQO-2003-0014 upheld the Regional Board’s use of numeric
groundwater limits, and states t hat numeric groundwater limits must be restricted to those
constituents present in the waste, breakdow n products of constituents present in the
waste, and those that might be leached from the soil beneath the wastewater disposal area. The Groundwater Limitations of this Order comply with State Board Order No.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 13
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


 WQO-2003-0014, as described below. Additional information regarding each of these
chemicals is found in the Information Sheet.
a. Monitoring data provided in the RWD show that boron is present in the WWTF effluent.
Boron occurs naturally in waters, and is k nown to be present in the cleaning products
used in domestic households2. Boron has been found in the WWTF effluent at a
concentration of 2.7 mg/L. Boron has the potential to degrade groundwater quality at
this site because there is little ability for attenuation in the vadose zone. The
groundwater underlying the facility has the designated beneficial use of agricultural
supply. According to Ayers and Westcot3, boron can cause yield or vegetative growth
reductions of sensitive crops if present in ex cess of 0.7 mg/L in irrigation water, thereby
impairing agricultural use of the water resource. The applicable water quality objective to protect the agricultural use from disc harges of boron is the narrative Chemical
Constituents objective, which is applied following the “Policy of Application of Water Quality Objectives” in the Basin Plan. A numer ical groundwater limitation of 0.7 mg/L for
boron, based on Ayers and Westcot, is relevant and appropriate to apply the narrative Chemical Constituents objective to protect agricultural use of groundwater in the absence of information to support less protective limits.
b. Monitoring data provided in the RWD show that chloride is present in the WWTF
effluent. Additionally, chloride is known to be present in domestic wastewater, as it is
one of the major components of total dissolved solids. Chloride is a major anion in natural water and wastewater, and is added to the waste stream because sodium
chloride is present in the human diet and is excreted unchanged from the human
body
2,4. Chloride concentrations at other facilities vary depending on the salinity of the
source water and the activities resulting in wastewater discharge. Chloride has been
found in the wastewater at a concentration of 217 mg/L. Chloride has the potential to degrade groundwater quality at this site because there is little ability for attenuation in
vadose zone. According to Ayers and Westcot, chloride can cause yield or vegetative growth reductions of sensitive crops if pres ent in excess of 106 mg/L in irrigation water
applied by sprinklers, thereby impairing agricultural use of the water resource. The applicable water quality objective to protect the agricultural use from discharges of
chloride is the narrative Chemical Constit uents objective, which is applied following the
“Policy of Application of Water Quality Ob jectives” in the Basin Plan. A numerical
groundwater limitation of 106 mg/L for ch loride, based on Ayers and Westcot, is
relevant and appropriate to apply the narrati ve Chemical Constituents objective to
protect agricultural use of groundwater in the absence of information to support less protective limits.

2 American Public Health Association et al., 1985. Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, 16th Edition.
3 Ayers, R.S. and D.W. Westcot, Water Quality for Agri culture, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations- Irrigation and Drainage Paper No. 29, Rev. 1, Rome (1985). This paper contains the results of studies
of the impacts of various chemicals on agricultural uses including crop irrigat ion and stock watering. Therefore,
it is appropriate to use the data contained therein to apply the narrative Chemical Constituent water quality
objective.
4 Metcalf and Eddy, 2003. Wastewater Engineering Treatment and Reuse, 4th Edition.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 14
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


c. The Discharger has not yet sampled its effluent for iron. Iron is naturally occurring in all
waters due to its presence in soils and rock2, and is liberated from the soil under
reducing conditions associated with the biodegradat ion of organic matter. Iron is known
to be present in domestic wastewater, and at other domestic wastewater facilities has
been found at concentrations ranging from 70 to 190 ug/L. It is also expected to be
present in the effluent from this facilit y. Iron has the potential to degrade groundwater
quality at this site because there is little ability for attenuation in the vadose zone. The Chemical Constituents objective prohibits c oncentrations of chemical constituents in
excess of California MCLs in groundwater that is designated as municipal or domestic
supply. The California secondary MCL fo r iron is 0.3 mg/L, and groundwater beneath
the facility is designated as municipal or domes tic supply. It is therefore appropriate to
adopt a numerical groundwater limit ation of 0.3 mg/L for iron to implement the Chemical
Constituents objective to protect the municipal and domestic use of groundwater.
d. The Discharger has not yet sampled its effluent for manganese. Manganese occurs
naturally in waters and is added to t he waste stream through both domestic and
industrial use2. Manganese has been found at other domestic wastewater treatment
facilities at concentrations ranging from 2 to 21 ug/L, and is expected to be present at
this facility. Manganese has the potential to degrade groundwater quality at this site because there is little ability for attenuation in the vadose zone. In addition, naturally
occurring manganese can be solubilized from soil under reducing conditions caused by the land disposal of domestic wastewater, and is more prevalent in dissolved forms in
groundwater
2. The Chemical Constituents objective prohibits concentrations of
chemical constituents in excess of California MCLs in groundwater that is designated as
municipal or domestic supply. The California secondary MCL for manganese is 0.05 mg/L, and groundwater beneath the facility is designated as municipal or domestic
supply. It is therefore appropriate to adopt a numerical groundw ater limitation of
0.05 mg/L (50 ug/L) for manganese to implem ent the Chemical Constituents objective
to protect the municipal and domestic use of groundwater.
e. Monitoring data provided in the RWD show that sodium is present in the WWTF
effluent. Additionally, sodium is known to be present in domestic wastewater, as it is
one of the major components of total dissolved solids. Sodium is a major cation in natural water, due to its prevalence in the earth’s crust, and in wastewater because
sodium chloride is present in the hum an diet and is excreted unchanged by the body
2.
Sodium concentrations at other domestic wast ewater facilities vary depending on the
salinity of the source water and the activities resulting in wastewater discharge. Sodium
has been found in the wastewater at this facility at a concentration of 199 mg/L. Sodium has the potential to degrade groundwater quality at this facility because there is little ability for attenuation in vadose zone. According to Ayers and Westcot, sodium can cause yield or vegetative growth reductions of sensitive crops if present in excess
of 69 mg/L in irrigation water, thereby impai ring agricultural use of the water resource.
The applicable water quality objective to protec t the agricultural use from discharges of
chloride is the narrative Chemical Constit uents objective, which is applied following the
“Policy of Application of Water Quality Ob jectives” in the Basin Plan. A numerical
groundwater limitation of 69 mg/L for sodium, based on Ayers and Westcot, is relevant
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 15
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


and appropriate to apply the narrative Chemical Constituents objective to protect
agricultural use of groundwater in the absence of information to support a less protective limit.
f. Total dissolved solids, which were found to be present in the wastewater based on
electrical conductivity (EC) measurements of up to 2,184 umhos/cm, have the potential to degrade groundwater quality at this site becaus e there is little ability for attenuation in
the vadose zone. According to Ayers and Westcot, dissolved solids can cause yield or vegetative growth reductions of sensitive crops if present in excess of 450 mg/L (or 700
umhos/cm EC) in irrigation water, thereby impairing agricultural use of the water
resource. The applicable water quality objective to protect the agricultural use from
discharges of total dissolved solids is the narrative Chemical Constituents objective,
which is applied following the “Policy of Applic ation of Water Quality Objectives” in the
Basin Plan. A numerical groundw ater limitation of 450 mg/L for total dissolved solids,
based on Ayers and Westcot, is appropriate to apply the narrative Chemical Constituents objective to protect the unrestr icted agricultural use of groundwater in the
absence of information to support a less protective limit.
g. The Discharger has not yet sampled its effluent for nitrate. However, total nitrogen was
present at a concentration of 9 mg/L. Th is constituent has the potential to degrade
groundwater quality with nitrate because a mmonia nitrogen in wastewater readily
converts to nitrate and there is little ability fo r nitrate attenuation in the vadose zone at
this site. The Chemical Constituents objective prohibits concentrations of chemical constituents in excess of California MCLs in groundwater that is designated as
municipal or domestic supply. The California primary MCL for nitrate is equivalent to 10
mg/L as nitrogen, and groundwater beneath the facility is designated as municipal or
domestic supply. It is therefore appropriate to adopt a numerical gr oundwater limitation
of 10 mg/L for nitrate as nitrogen to implement the Chemical Constituents objective to
protect the municipal and dom estic use of groundwater.
h. The Discharger has not yet sampled its effluent for nitrite. However, total nitrogen was
present at a concentration of 9 mg/L. Th is constituent has the potential to degrade
groundwater quality with nitrite because a mmonia nitrogen in wastewater readily
converts to nitrate and nitrite and there is littl e ability for nitrite attenuation in the vadose
zone at this site. The Chemical Constit uents objective prohibits concentrations of
chemical constituents in excess of California MCLs in groundwater that is designated as
municipal or domestic supply. The Californi a primary MCL for nitrite is 1 mg/L as
nitrogen, and groundwater beneath the facility is designated as municipal or domestic supply. It is therefore appropriate to adopt a numerical groundwater limitation of 1 mg/L
for nitrite as nitrogen to implement the Chem ical Constituents objective to protect the
municipal and domestic use of groundwater.

i. The Discharger has not yet sampled its effluent for ammonia. However, total nitrogen
was present at a concentration of 9 mg/L, which has the potential to degrade
groundwater quality with ammonia because total nitrogen includes both ammonia and
organic nitrogen (which readily mineralizes to the ammonia form), and there is little
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 16
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


 ability for ammonia attenuation in the vadose zone at this site. According to Amoore
and Hautala5, who evaluated odor of ammonia in water, the odor threshold for
ammonia in water is 1.5 mg/L (as ammonia) . Concentrations that exceed this value
can impair the municipal or domestic use of the resource by causing adverse odors.
The applicable water quality objective to pr otect the municipal and domestic use from
discharges of odor producing substances is the narrative Tastes and Odors objective,
which is applied following the “Policy of Applic ation of Water Quality Objectives” in the
Basin Plan. A numerical groundw ater limitation of 1.5 mg/L for ammonia (as ammonia),
based on Amoore and Hautala, is relevant and appropriate to apply the narrative Tastes and Odors objective to protect t he municipal and domestic use of groundwater.

j. pH, which is typically 7.0 to 9.5 standard units in oxidation pond domestic wastewater
treatment systems, has the ab ility to degrade groundwater quality at this site because
there is little potential for buffering in the limited vadose zone. According to Ayers and Westcot, pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8. 4 can cause yield or vegetative growth
reductions of sensitive crops if present in irrigation water, thereby impairing agricultural
use of the water resource. The applicable water quality objective to protect the
agricultural use from discharges of substances that affect pH is the narrative Chemical
Constituents objective, which is applied following the “Policy of Application of Water Quality Objectives” in the Basin Plan. A numerical groundwater limitation range of
6.5 to 8.4 for pH, based on Ayers and Westcot, is relevant and appropriate to apply the narrative Chemical Constituents objective to protect unrestricted agricultural use of groundwater in the absence of informati on to support a less protective limit.
55. The “Antidegradation” section of the attached Information Sheet lists the various waste
constituents identified thus far as fitting the restriction of the Findi ngs along with limits of
each constituent necessary to protect beneficia l uses known to be adversely affected at
certain concentrations of the waste constituent in groundwater. The listing identifies the
constituent, the beneficial use, and its associat ed limit, as well as the technical reference
for the limit. Some limits may become less stringent when the water supply is limited to
certain applications of a beneficial use and due to other case-specific circumstances.
However, relaxing limits designed to protec t beneficial uses requires additional factual
information, which is not currently available. Pursuant to the Controllable Factors Policy in
Chapter IV of the Basin Plan, groundwater limitations for each constituent reflect the most
stringent listed limit for the waste constituent so as to apply all narrative and numeric
water quality objectives, unless natural backg round quality is worse than the objective, in
which case the background level becomes the limitation.
Other Regulatory Considerations

5 Amoore, J.E. and E. Hautala, Odor as an Aid to Chemical Safety: O dor Thresholds Compared with Threshold
Limit Values and Volatilities for 214 Industrial Chemicals in Air and Water Dilution , Journal of Applied
Toxicology, Vol. 3, No. 6, (1983). These authors studi ed the concentration of chemicals in air that caused
adverse odors, and then calculated the concentration in wate r that would be equivalent to that amount in air.
Therefore, it is appropriate to use the data contained therein to apply the narrative Tastes and Odors water
quality objective.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 17
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


56. The State Water Board adopted Order No. 97-03-DWQ (NPDES General Permit No.
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge require ments for discharges of storm water
associated with industrial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all
affected industrial dischargers. The wastewater treatment plant facilities are designed to
contain all storm water runoff that might hav e contacted the waste regulated under this
Order. Because there is no storm water di scharge from the industrial portion of the
facility, the Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under NPDES General Permit
No. CAS000001.
57. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Boar d adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements For Sanitary Sewer Systems General Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ (General
Order). The General Order requires all pub lic agencies that own or operate sanitary
sewer systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the Order. The Discharger’s collection system will exceed one mile in lengt h, and therefore the General Order is
applicable. The Discharger has filed a Noti ce of Intent (NOI) for coverage under the
General Order with the State Wate r Resources Control Board.
58. Section 13267(b) of the Califor nia Water Code provides that: “ In conducting an
investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require that any person
who has discharged, discharges, or is suspec ted of having discharged or discharging, or
who proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any citizen or domiciliary, or political
agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge, waste outside of its region that
could affect the quality of waters within its region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional board requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the
report and the benefits to be obtained from the r eports. In requiring those reports, the
regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the need
for the reports, and shall identify the evidenc e that supports requiring that person to
provide the reports”.
The technical reports required by this Order and the attached “Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. R5-2007-0149” are necessary to assure compliance with these waste
discharge requirements. The Discharger owns and operates the facility that discharges
the waste subject to this Order.
59. The California Department of Water Resour ces sets standards for the construction and
destruction of groundwater wells (hereafte r DWR Well Standards), as described in
California Well Standards Bulletin 74-90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards: State of
California Bulletin 94-81 (December 1981). These standards, and any more stringent
standards adopted by the State or county pursuant to CWC Section 13801, apply to all
monitoring wells.
60. The action to adopt waste discharge requirement s for this existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the California Environm ental Quality (CEQA), in accordance with
Title 14 CCR, Section 15301.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 18
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


61. On 19 June 2007, in accordance with the Calif ornia Environmental Quality Act (Title 14
CCR, Section 15261 et. seq.), Knights Landing Co mmunity Services District certified a
Negative Declaration for expansion of the wastewater treatment facility to accommodate
anticipated growth within its sphere of influence. Mitigation measures were not made a condition of the approval of the project.
62. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge,
which establishes management criteria for pr otection of ground and surface waters, sets
application rates for heavy metals, and establishes stabilization and disinfection criteria.
63. The Regional Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines in
establishing this Order, but the Regional Water Board is not the implementing agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The Discharger may have separate and/or additional
compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to the EPA.
64. State regulations that pre scribe procedures for detecting and characterizing the impact of
waste constituents from wa ste management units on groundwater are found in Title 27.
While the wastewater treatment facility is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods
of Title 27 are appropriate for determining whether the discharge complies with the terms for protection of groundwater specified in this Order.
65. The discharge authorized herein and the treat ment and storage facilities associated with
the discharge, except for discharges of resi dual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from
the requirements of Title 27, California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 20005 et seq.
(hereafter Title 27). The exemption, pursuant to Section 20090(a) of Title 27, is based on
the following:
a. The waste consists primarily of domestic sewage and treated effluent;
b. The waste discharge requirements are c onsistent with water quality objectives; and
c. The treatment and storage facilities descr ibed herein are associated with a municipal
wastewater treatment plant.
66. Pursuant to California Water Code Section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right,
and adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice
67. All the above and the supplemental informa tion and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference her ein, were considered in establishing the
following conditions of discharge.
68. The Discharger and interested agencies and per sons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for th is discharge, and they have been provided
an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportuni ty to submit their written views and
recommendations.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 19
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


 69. In a public meeting, all comments pertaini ng to the discharge were heard and considered.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, pursuant to Sections 13263 and 13267 of the California Water
Code, Order No. 94-020 is rescinded and Knights Landing Community Services District, its
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions , and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes from any portion of the WWTF and the sanitary sewer system)
to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazar dous' under Section 2521, Chapter 15 of Title
23 or 'designated', as defined in Secti on 13173 of the California Water Code is
prohibited.
3. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
4. Discharge of treated wastewat er downstream of the treatm ent plant, other than at the
percolation/evaporation ponds and spreading area described in the Findings is
prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications
1. Effective immediately , the average daily dry weather flow6 shall not exceed
80,000 gpd, and the average daily flow7 shall not exceed 120,000 gpd during the
months of November through July, inclusive.
2. Effective upon the Executive Officer’s written approval of the report required
pursuant to Provision F.1.a, the average daily dry weather flow shall not exceed
105,000 gpd; the average daily flow shall not exceed 142,000 gpd during the months
of November through July, inclusive; and the total annual influent flow shall not exceed 48.4 million gallons.
3. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be
released or discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes violation of the
Groundwater Limitations.
4. Wastewater treatment, st orage, and disposal shall not cause pollution or a nuisance
as defined by Section 13050 of the California Water Code (CWC).

6 Dry weather is defined as the months of August through October, inclusive.
7 Average daily flow is defined as the total flow for t he month divided by the number of days in the month.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 20
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


5. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to optimize the quality of the
treated effluent.
6. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means
as fences and signs, or acceptable alternatives.
7. Objectionable odors originating at the facility shall not be perceivable beyond the
limits of the property owned by the Discharger.
8. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 7, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper one f oot of any wastewater storage pond shall
not be less than 1.0 mg/l.
9. Wastewater ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In
particular,
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small coves
and irregularities are not created around t he perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through cont rol of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
10. Effective 1 October 2008, all treatment, storage, and disposal facilities shall be
designed, constructed, operated, and mainta ined to prevent inundation or washout
due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
11. The facility shall have sufficient treat ment, storage, and disposal capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and
ancillary inflow and infiltration during the winter months. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual pr ecipitation using a return period of
100 years, distributed monthly in accor dance with historical rainfall patterns.
12. Freeboard in any pond (including the sp reading basin) shall never be less than
two feet as measured from the water surf ace to the lowest point of overflow.
13. On or about 15 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at
least equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications B.11 and B.12.
C. Effluent Limitations
1. Wastewater discharged into any of the wastewater ponds or the land spreading area
sites shall not cause the wastewater cont ained therein to exceed the following interim
performance limit for salinity:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 21
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


Constituent/Parameter Units 30-Day Average
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm 2,300
2. No stored wastewater or effluent shall have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.0.
D. General Solids Disposal Specifications
Sludge, as used in this document, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed
during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge
means sludge that will not be subject to further tr eatment at the WWTF. Biosolids refers to
sludge that has been treated and tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially and legally used pursuant to federal and state regul ations as a soil amendment for agriculture,
silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation activities.
1. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed fr om screens, sumps, ponds, and clarifiers as
needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
2. Treatment and storage of sludge generated by the WWTF shall be confined to the
WWTF property, and shall be conducted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soils in a mass or at c oncentrations that will violate the Groundwater
Limitations of this Order.
3. Any storage of residual sludge, solid wa ste, and biosolids at the WWTF shall be
temporary, and the waste shall be controlled and contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass
or at concentrations that will violate t he Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
4. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27. Removal for further treatment,
disposal, or reuse at disposal sites (i.e., landfills, WWTFs, composting sites, soil amendment sites) operated in accordance with valid waste discharge requirements
issued by a regional water quality contro l board will satisfy this specification.
5. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste discharge
requirements issued by a regional water quality control board. In most cases, this will
mean the General Biosolids Order (State Water Resources Control Board Water Quality Order No. 2000-10-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for the
Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural,
Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land Reclamation Activities). For a biosolids use project
to be covered by the General Biosolids Or der, the Discharger must file a complete
Notice of Intent and receive a Notice of Applicability for each project.
6. Use and disposal of biosolids shall co mply with the self-implementing federal
regulations of Title 40, Code of Federal Regul ations (CFR), Part 503, which are subject
to enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the Regional Water Board. If during the life of this
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 22
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


Order, the State accepts primacy for implem entation of 40 CFR 503, then the Regional
Water Board may also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
E. Interim Groundwater Limitations
1. Release of waste constituents from any wastewater treatment or storage system
component associated with the wastewater treatment facility shall not cause
groundwater under and beyond that system component, as determined by an
approved well monitoring network, to:
a. Contain any of the following constit uents in concentration greater than those
listed below or greater than natural ba ckground quality, whichever is greater:
Constituent Units Limitation
Boron mg/L 0.7
Chloride mg/L 106
Iron mg/L 0.3
Manganese mg/L 0.05
Sodium mg/L 69
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 mL less than 2.2
Electrical Conductivity 1 umhos/cm 700
Total dissolved solids 1mg/L 450
Nitrite (as N) mg/L 1
Nitrate (as N) mg/L 10
Ammonia (as NH 4) mg/l 1.5
1 A cumulative impact limit that account s for several dissolved constituents in
addition to those listed here separat ely [e.g., alkalinity (carbonate and
bicarbonate), calcium, hardness, phosphate, and potassium].
b. Exhibit a pH of less than 6. 5 or greater than 8.4 pH units.
c. Impart taste, odor, chemical constituents, toxicity, or color that creates nuisance
or impairs any beneficial use.
F. Provisions
1. The following reports shall be submitted pursuant to Section 13267 of the California
Water Code and shall be prepared as described in Provision F.3:
a. Upon completion of the facility expansion and headworks improvements, and
prior to any use of Ponds 9 and 10, the Discharger shall submit a report prepared
by a California licensed engineer certif ying that the expansion and associated
improvements (excluding the headworks fl ood protection improvements) have
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 23
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


been completed as described in the Repor t of Waste Discharge and are fully
operational.
b. By 30 April 2008 , the Discharger shall submit a Groundwater Monitoring Well
Installation Workplan prepared in accordance with, and including the items listed
in, the first section of Attachment C: “Requirements for Monitoring Well Installation
Workplans and Monitoring Well Installation Reports.” The workplan shall describe
installation of at least three new groundw ater monitoring wells designed to ensure
that background water quality is adequately characterized and any potential water
quality impacts from the discharge are detected. The system shall be designed to yield samples representative of the uppermost portion of the first aquifer
underlying the WWTF. The workplan shall provide the name and contact
information for the registered profe ssional that will prepar e the groundwater
monitoring reports required by the Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP).
c. By 30 August 2008 , the Discharger shall submit a Monitoring Well Installation
Report prepared in accordance with, and includi ng the items listed in, the second
section of Attachment C: “Monitoring Well Workplan and Monitoring Well
Installation Report Guidance.” The report shall describe the installation or
destruction of any wells, describe well development, and explain any deviation from the approved workplan.
d. By 30 October 2008 , the Discharger shall submit an Operation and Maintenance
Plan (O&M Plan) for the WWTF. A copy of the O&M Plan shall be kept at the
facility for reference by operating personnel and key personnel shall be familiar with its contents. The O&M Pl an shall provide the following:
i. Operation and Control of Wastewat er Treatment - A description of the
wastewater treatment equipment; operational controls; treatment
requirements/effluent limitations; fl ow diagrams including valve/gate
locations; operation of the treatm ent systems during start-up, normal
operation, by-pass, shut-down, and draining procedures; potential
operational problems including a troubleshooting guide.
ii. Sludge Management - A description of the frequency of and procedure for
evaluating sludge accumulations in the ponds, and determining when sludge removal is needed to ensure adequate capac ity and optimal operation of the
WWTF.
iii. Personnel - Recommended staffing r equirements, staff qualifications,
training requirements and schedule, and oper ator certification requirements.
iv. Maintenance – Maintenance procedures, equipment record system,
scheduling and use of the maintenance record system, inventory system,
special tools, warranty provisions and expiration dates, maintenance cost
and budgeting system, maintenance schedule of all equipment including
lubricants, filters, UV bulbs, etc.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 24
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


v. Emergency Response – A description of the vulnerability analysis including
emergencies such as power outage, severe weather, or flooding. An
equipment and telephone list for emergency personnel and equipment vendors. Coordination procedures wit h fire, police, and health department
personnel, and an emergency operating plan.
vi. Safety – A general discussion of the hazards of collection systems,
mechanical equipment, explosion, pathogens , oxygen deficiencies, chemical
and electrical hazards, etc.
vii. Appendices – Shall include flow diagr ams, valve/gate locations, copy of
WDRs, miscellaneous form samples, manufacturer’s manuals, and a list of reference materials.
e. By 30 October 2008 , the Discharger shall submit a report prepared by a California
licensed engineer certifying that the headw orks flood protection improvements
have been completed as described in the R eport of Waste Discharge and are fully
operational.
f. By 1 November 2008, the Discharger shall submit an Interim Sewer System
Management Plan (SSMP), which shall contain te chnical reports consistent with
the requirements of the State Water Board General Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ.
The following portions of the SSMP shall be included in the Interim SSMP:
i. Item D.13.vi, Overflow Emergency Response Plan.
g. By 30 August 2010 , the Discharger shall submit a Background Groundwater
Quality Study Report. For each groundwater monitoring parameter/constituent identified in the MRP (including coliform organisms), the report shall present a
summary of monitoring data and calculati on of the concentration in background
monitoring wells. Determination of background quality shall be made using the methods described in Title 27 CCR, Sect ion 20415(e)(10), and shall be based on
data from at least eight consecutive quarterly (or more frequent) groundwater
monitoring events. For each monitoring parameter/constituent, the report shall
compare the calculated background conc entration with the interim numeric
limitations set forth in Groundwater Limitation F.1.a. Where background
concentrations are statistically greater t han the interim limitations specified in
Groundwater Limitation F.1.a, the report shall recommend final groundwater limitations which comply with Resolution 68-16 for the waste constituents listed
therein. Subsequent use of a concentra tion as a final groundwater limitation will
be subject to the discretion of the Executive Officer. If desired, the Discharger may include site- and/or locale-specific information regarding the crops that
farmers can reasonably expect to grow in the area based on soil types and weather patterns, as well as other relev ant data and/or information to demonstrate
that groundwater limitations for salinit y constituents higher than the Interim
Groundwater Limitations of this Or der would not unreasonably impair the
beneficial uses of groundwater for agricultural irrigation. The sources and interpretation of such information shall be thoroughly discussed in the report.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 25
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


h. By 30 December 2010 , the Discharger shall submit and implement a Salinity
Evaluation and Minimization Plan to address sources of salinity to the wastewater
treatment system. At a minimum, the pl an shall meet the following requirements
outlined in CWC Section 13263.3(d)(3) Pollution Prevention Plans:
i. An estimate of all of the sources of a pollutant contributing, or potentially
contributing, to the loadings of salinity in the treatment plant influent including
water supply, water softeners, and other residential, commercial and industrial
salinity sources.
ii. An analysis of the methods that c ould be used to prevent the discharge of
salinity into the facility, including applic ation of local limits to industrial or
commercial dischargers regarding pollution prevention techniques, public education and outreach, or other innov ative and alternative approaches to
reduce discharges of the pollutant to the facility. The analysis shall also
identify sources, or potentia l sources, not within the ability or authority of the
Discharger to control.
iii. An estimate of salinity load reductions that may be identified through the
methods identified in subparagraph ii.
iv. A plan for monitoring the results of the salinity pollution prevention program.
v. A description of the tasks, costs, and time required to investigate and
implement various elements in the salinity pollution prevention plan.
vi. A statement of the Discharger’s salinity pollution prevention goals and
strategies, including priorities for short-term and long-term action, and a
description of the Dischargers intended pollu tion prevention activities for the
immediate future.
vii. A description of the Discharger’s existing salinity pollution prevention
programs.
viii. An analysis, to the extent feasible , of any adverse environmental impacts,
including cross-media impacts or substitute chemicals that may result from the
implementation of the pollu tion prevention program.
ix. An analysis, to the extent feasible , of the costs and benefits that may be
incurred to implement the pollution prevention program.
x. Progress to date in reducing the conc entration and/or mass of salinity in the
discharge.
Progress in implementation of the plan s hall be reported each year in the Annual
Monitoring Report required pursuant to Monitoring and Reporting Program No.
R5-2007-0149.
i. At least 180 days prior to any biosolids removal and disposal, the Discharger
shall submit a Biosolids Cleanout Plan . The plan shall include a detailed plan for
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 26
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


sludge removal, sludge drying, and disposal. The plan shall specifically describe
the phasing of the project, measures to be used to control runoff or percolate from
the sludge as it is drying, and a schedule that shows how all dried sludge will be
removed form the site prior to the onset of the rainy season (1 October).
2. If the Background Groundwater Quality Study shows that the discharge of waste is
causing groundwater to contain waste cons tituents in concentrations statistically
greater than background wa ter quality then, within 180 days of the request of the
Executive Officer, the Discharger shall submit a BPTC Evaluation Workplan that sets
forth the scope and schedule for a systematic and comprehensive technical evaluation of each component of the facility’ s waste treatment and disposal system to
determine best practicable treatment and cont rol for each waste constituent listed in
the Groundwater Limitation F.1.a of this Order. The workplan shall contain a
preliminary evaluation of each component of the WWTF and effluent disposal system
and propose a time schedule for completing the comprehensive technical evaluation. The schedule to complete the evaluation shall be as short as practicable, and shall
not exceed one year after receipt of comments on the workplan.
3. All technical reports requir ed herein that involve planning, in vestigation, evaluation, or
design, or other work requiring interpre tation and proper application of engineering or
geologic sciences, shall be prepared by or under t he direction of persons registered to
practice in California pursuant to Califor nia Business and Professions Code sections
6735, 7835, and 7835.1. To demonstrate co mpliance with Sections 415 and 3065 of
Title 16, CCR, all technical reports must c ontain a statement of the qualifications of
the responsible registered professional(s). As required by these laws, completed
technical reports must bear the signat ure(s) and seal(s) of the registered
professional(s) in a manner such that a ll work can be clearly attributed to the
professional responsible for the work.
4. The Discharger shall comply with t he Monitoring and Reporting Program No.
R5-2007-0149, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the
Executive Officer.
5. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Require ments", dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
6. The Discharger shall submit to t he Regional Water Board on or before each
compliance report due date, the specified document or, if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance or noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If
noncompliance is being reported, then the Discharge shall state the reasons for such
noncompliance and provide an estimate of the date when the Discharger will be in
compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Regional Water Board in writing when it
returns to compliance with the time schedule.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 27
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


7. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique(s)
including proper operation and maintenanc e, to comply with this Order.
8. The Discharger shall provide certified wastewater treatment plant operators in
accordance with Title 23 of the California C ode of Regulations, Division 3, Chapter 26.
9. As described in the Standard Provisions, t he Discharger shall report promptly to the
Regional Water Board any material change or proposed change in the character,
location, or volume of the discharge.
10. The Discharger shall report to the Regional Water Board any toxic chemical release
data it reports to the State Emergen cy Response Commission within 15 days of
reporting the data to the Commission purs uant to section 313 of the “Emergency
Planning and Community Right to Know Act of 1986.”
11. Upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanitary sewer system resulting in a sanitary
sewer overflow, the Discharger shall take any necessary remedial action to (a) control
or limit the volume of sewage discharged, (b) terminate the sewage discharge as rapidly as possible, and (c) recover as mu ch as possible of the sewage discharged
(including wash down water) for proper dispos al. The Discharger shall implement all
applicable remedial actions including, but not limited to, the following:
a. Interception and rerouting of sewage flows around the sewage line failure;
b. Vacuum truck recovery of sanitary sewer overflows and wash down water;
c. Use of portable aerators where comple te recovery of the sanitary sewer
overflows are not practicable and where severe oxygen depletion is expected in
surface waters; and
d. Cleanup of sewage-related debris at the overflow site.
12. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant-free wastewater to be discharged into the
wastewater collection, treatment, and dispos al system in amounts that significantly
diminish the system’s capability to comply wit h this Order. Pollutant-free wastewater
means rainfall, groundwater, cooling waters, and condensates that are essentially free of pollutants.
13. In the event of any change in control or ownership of the WWTF, the Discharger must
notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this office. To assume operation as Discharger under this Order, the succeeding ow ner or operator must apply in writing
to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must contain
the requesting entity's full legal name, the state of incorporat ion if a corporation, the
name and address and telephone number of the per sons responsible for contact with
the Regional Water Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the
signatory paragraph of Standard Provision B.3 and state t hat the new owner or
operator assumes full responsibility for compli ance with this Order. Failure to submit
the request shall be considered a discharge wit hout requirements, a violation of the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149 28
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY YOLO COUNTY


California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the Executive
Officer.
14. The Discharger shall comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement acti on, including Regional Water Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or
recession of this Order.
15. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel s hall be familiar with its contents.
16. The Regional Water Board will review this Order periodically and will revise
requirements when necessary.
I, PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the Califor nia Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 26 October 2007.


PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

REVISED
ALO: 11/6/07

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTIN G PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149
FOR
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring the
wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) influent, wastewater ponds, groundwater, and biosolids
disposal. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code Section 13267. The Discharger shall
not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer.

Regional Water Board staff shall approve specif ic sampling locations prior to any sampling
activities. All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of material sampled. The time, date, and location of each sample shall be recorded on
the sample chain of custody form.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test dissolved oxygen, pH, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that:
1. The user is trained in proper us e and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated pr ior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrat ed by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as de scribed in the “Reporting” section of this MRP.

WWTF INFLUENT MONITORING

The Discharger shall monitor influent wastewater in accordance with the following. Samples shall be representative of the influent to t he first treatment ponds. A composite sample
comprised of equal volumes from Ponds 1 and 2 is considered representative of the influent.
Influent monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent Units Type of SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Flow gpd Flow Meter Observation Daily Monthly
BOD 1mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Total Suspended Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
1 Five-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.


MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -2-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

WWTF EFFLUENT MONITORING

The Discharger shall monitor effluent wastewater in accordance with the following. Samples
shall be representative of the e ffluent contained in the influent to the last treatment ponds. A
grab sample from Pond 9 or 10 is considered repres entative of the effluent if either or both of
these ponds contain more than one foot of water. Otherwise, a composite sample comprised
of equal volumes from Ponds 7 and 8 is consi dered representative of the effluent. Effluent
monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
BOD 1mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm Grab Monthly Monthly
Total dissolved solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Monthly 2
Sodium mg/L Grab Quarterly Monthly 2
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly Monthly 2
Boron mg/L Grab Quarterly Monthly 2
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrate nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
1 Five-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
2 Results shall be reported in the Monthly Monitoring Report for the month during which samples were obtained.

WWTF POND MONITORING

The Discharger shall monitor all ponds at the WWTF, including the spreading basin, in
accordance with the following. Samples shall be collected from permanent monitoring locations that will provide sample s representative of the wastewat er in each pond. Freeboard
shall be measured vertically from the water surface to the lowest elevation of the pond berm, and shall be measured to the nearest 0.10 fee t. Pond monitoring shall include, at a
minimum, the following:

Constituent/Parameter Units Type of SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Freeboard 0.1 Feet Staff Gauge
Observation Weekly Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen 1 mg/L Grab Weekly Monthly
pH pH units Grab Weekly Monthly
Odors -- Observation Weekly Monthly
Pond berm condition -- Observation Weekly Monthly
1 Samples shall be collected opposite each pond inlet at a depth of one foot between 0700 and 0900 hours.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -3-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

FACILITY INSPECTIONS

The Discharger shall inspect the WWTF at least weekly. At a minimum, the inspection shall
include the following elements:
a. Condition of fences designed to prevent public access (monthly).
b. Odors discernible at the property boundary (weekly).
c. Integrity of all berms, dikes, and lev ees, including consideration of damage from
erosion, wave action, and burrowing rodents (weekly).
d. Headworks damage and debris accumulation (weekly).
e. Flow metering system function (weekly).
f. Piping systems, including control valves and visible piping (weekly).

GROUNDWATER MONITORING

The Discharger shall establish a quarterly sa mpling schedule for groundwater monitoring,
with samples obtained approximatel y every three months.

This monitoring program applies to all three existing monitoring wells, as well as those
constructed after issuance of this MRP. Pr ior to construction of any additional groundwater
monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit pl ans and specifications to the Regional Water
Board for review and approval. Once installed, all new monitoring wells shall be added to the
MRP, and shall be sampled and analyzed according to the schedule below.

Prior to well purging, groundwater elevations s hall be measured. Depth to groundwater shall
be measured to the nearest 0.01 feet. Water tabl e elevations shall be calculated and used to
determine groundwater gradient and direction of fl ow. The monitoring wells shall be purged
of at least three well volumes or until temperature, pH, and electrical conductivity have
stabilized. Samples shall be collected and analyzed using approved EPA methods. Groundwater monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:


Constituent
UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Depth to groundwater 0.01 feet Measurement Quarterly Quarterly
Groundwater elevation 10.01 feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient feet/feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient direction Degrees Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
pH pH units Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total dissolved solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrate nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -4-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY


Constituent
UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Ammonia nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total coliform organisms 2MPN/100 ml Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Standard minerals 3 mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Metals 4 ug/L Grab Annually Annually 5
1 Groundwater elevations shall be determined based on depth-to-water measurements using a surveyed
elevation reference point on the well casing.
2 Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions
3 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: boron, bromide, calcium,
chloride, fluoride, magnesium, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total alkalinity (including alkalinity
series), and hardness as CaCO 3.
4 At a minimum, the following metals shall be included: arsenic, copper, lead, iron, manganese, nickel, and
zinc. Analytical methods shall be selected to provi de reporting limits below the Water Quality Limit for each
constituent.
5 Results for constituents analyzed annually shall be reported in the fourth quarterly monitoring report each year.

BIOSOLIDS MONITORING

The Discharger shall keep records regarding bios olids generated by the treatment processes,
including any analytical test results; the quant ity of biosolids removed for disposal; the
quantity of biosolids removed from the ponds and temporarily stored on site; and steps taken
to prevent nuisance conditions. Records shall be stored onsite and available for review during
inspections.

If biosolids are transported off-site for dispos al, then the Discharger shall submit records
identifying the hauling company, the amount of biosolids transpor ted, the date removed from
the facility, the disposal fac ility name and address, and copies of all analytical data required
by the entity accepting the waste. These reco rds shall be submitted as part of the Annual
Monitoring Report.

WATER SUPPLY MONITORING

The Discharger shall monitor the community wate r supply wells as required by the California
Department of Public Health (formerly Departm ent of Health Services), and shall report the
following minimum monitoring data for each water supply well to the Regional Water Board:
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -5-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY


Constituent
UnitsType of
SampleSampling
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Volume pumped to community
distribution system MG -- -- Annually
Total dissolved solids mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm Grab Annually Annually
Nitrate nitrogen mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Standard minerals 1 mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Metals 2 ug/L Grab Annually Annually
1 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: boron, bromide,
calcium, chloride, fluoride, magnesium, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total alkalinity (including
alkalinity series), and hardness as CaCO 3.
2 At a minimum, the following metals shall be included: arsenic, copper, lead, iron, manganese, nickel, and
zinc. Analytical methods shall be selected to provi de reporting limits below the applicable water quality limit
for each constituent.

REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger sha ll arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type (e.g., influent, pond, etc.), and reported analytical result for each sample
are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly illustrate
compliance with waste discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable.
The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in
the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported to the Regional Water Board.

A. Monthly Monitoring Reports

Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the 1st day of the second
month following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 March). Such reports shall
bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s author ized representative. An
example Monthly Monitoring Report is included as Attachment A.

At a minimum, the monthly moni toring reports shall include:
1. Results of the following monitoring:
a. WWTF influent monitoring;
b. WWTF effluent monitoring; and
c. WWTF pond monitoring.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -6-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications, disclosure of any
violations of the WDRs, and an explanation of any violation of those requirements.
Data shall be presented in tabular format.
3. Copies of current calibration logs for all field test instruments.
4. If requested by staff, copies of laboratory analytical report(s).
5. A summary facility inspection and repair r eport. The following items shall be inspected
at the specified frequency and specif ically addressed in the report:
a. Condition of fences designed to prevent public access (monthly).
b. Odors discernible at the property boundary (weekly).
d. Integrity of all berms, dikes, and levees, including consideration of damage from
erosion, wave action, and burrowing rodents (weekly).
e. Headworks damage and debris accumulation (weekly).
f. Flow metering system function (weekly).
g. Piping systems, including control valves and visible piping (weekly).

The facility inspection and repair report sha ll include the name of the person conducting
the inspections, dates of inspection, probl ems identified, repairs recommended, repairs
completed, and dates of completion.

B. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
The Discharger shall submit quarterly monitoring reports to the Regional Water Board by the
1st day of the second month after the quarter (i.e. the January-March quarter is due by
May 1st) each year.
As required by the California Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and
7835.1, all Quarterly Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct supervision
of a registered Professional Engineer or Geologist and signed by the registered
professional.

The Quarterly Monitoring Report shall include the following:
1. Results of groundwater monitoring.
2. A narrative description of all preparatory, monitoring, sampling, and analytical testing
activities for the groundwater monitoring. T he narrative shall be sufficiently detailed to
verify compliance with the WDRs, this MRP, and the Standard Provisions and
Reporting Requirements. The narrative shall be supported by field logs for each well documenting depth to groundwat er; parameters measured bef ore, during, and after
purging; method of purging; calculation of casing volume; and total volume of water
purged.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -7-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

3. Calculation of groundwater elevations, an assessment of groundwater flow direction
and gradient on the date of measurement, comparison of previous flow direction and
gradient data, and discussion of seasonal trends, if any.
4. A narrative discussion of the analytical results for all groundwater locations monitored
including spatial and temporal tends, with re ference to summary data tables, graphs,
and appended analytical reports (as applicable).
5. A comparison of monitoring data to the groundwater limitations and an explanation of
any violation of those requirements.
6. Summary data tables of historical and cu rrent water table elevations and analytical
results.
7. A scaled map showing relevant structures and features of the facility, the locations of
monitoring wells and any other sampling st ations, and groundwater elevation contours
referenced to mean sea level datum.
8. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) for groundwater monitoring.
C. Annual Report

An Annual Report shall be prepared as the f ourth quarter monitoring report. The Annual
Report shall include all monitoring data requir ed in the monthly/quarterly schedule. The
Annual Report shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board by
1 February each year. In addition to the data no rmally presented, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. The contents of the regular quarterly m onitoring report for the last quarter of the
year.
2. Analytical results for all water supply and other annual monitoring.
3. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the
year.
4. An evaluation of the performance of t he WWTF, including discussion of capacity
issues, infiltration and inflow (I/I), nuisance conditions, and a forecast of the flows
anticipated in the next year.
5. An evaluation of the gr oundwater quality beneath the wastew ater treatment facility.
6. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned
or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
7. A discussion of any data gaps and potent ial deficiencies/redundancies in the
monitoring system or reporting program.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0149 -8-
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

8. Summary of information on the disposal of biosolids as described in the “Biosolids
Monitoring” section.
9. A copy of the WWTF operator ’s current certification.
10. A discussion of the following:
a. Compliance with the interim performance limit s for salinity specified in the Effluent
Limitations of the WDRs;
b. Salinity reduction efforts implement ed in accordance with the approved Salinity
Evaluation and Minimization Plan ;
c. Other best practical treatment and contro l measures implemented pursuant to the
approved BPTC Evaluation Workplan (if one was required by the Executive
Officer); and
d. Based on monitoring data, an evaluati on of the effectiveness of the salinity
reduction/BPTC measures t hat were implemented.

A letter transmitting the self-monitoring reports shall accompany each report. The letter shall
include a discussion of requirement violations found during the reporting period, and actions
taken or planned for correcting noted violations, su ch as operation or facility modifications. If
the Discharger has previously submitted a repor t describing corrective actions and/or a time
schedule for implementing the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence
will be satisfactory. The transmittal letter shall c ontain the penalty of perjury statement by the
Discharger, or the Discharger’s authorized agents, as described in the Standard Provisions
General Reporting Require ments Section B.3.

The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program as of the date of this Order.



 Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

 26 October 2007
 (Date)
Attachment A: Example Monthly Monitoring Report

ALO:11/06/2007

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. __
ATTACHMENT A
EXAMPLE MONTHLY MONITORING REPORT




[Note: The following is a suggested mont hly report format that complies with the
reporting requirements set forth in the MRP and the Standard Provisions and
Reporting Requirements. The Discharger is not required to use the example monthly monitoring report, but all monthly monitoring reports must comply with the MRP and the Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements.]

DATE: _______________






TO:
 FROM:
Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board
11020 Sun Center Drive, Suite 200
Rancho Cordova, CA 95670

Attention: Anne Olson Knights Landing Community
Services District
P.O. Box 548
Knights Landing, CA 95645

MONTHLY MONITORING REPORT FOR __________ _________
 (month) (year)
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

Enclosed is the monthly monitoring report for the Knights Landing Community Services
District wastewater treatment facility in Yolo County. The report covers the monitoring period noted above.

The following attachments comprise this monitoring report:
A. Influent Monitoring Summary
B. Effluent Monitoring Summary
C. Pond Monitoring Summary
D. Violation Reporting
E. Facility Inspection and Repair Report and Violation Summary
F. Field instrument calibration logs dated
G. Analytical laboratory report(s) dated

I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the
information submitted in this document and a ll attachments, and that based upon my inquiry
of those individuals immediately responsible fo r obtaining the information, I believe that the
information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine.



(signature) (date)



(printed name)
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT Page 2


(month) (year)


A. INFLUENT MONITORING
Day of Month Influent Flow (gpd) BOD (mg/L) TSS (mg/L)
Monitoring
frequency: Daily Weekly Weekly
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Average

BOD = biochemical oxygen demand TSS = total suspended solids gpd = gallons per day
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT Page 3


(month) (year)

B. EFFLUENT MONITORING
Sampling Date
Sample Location
Sample Type

Constituent/Parameter Sampling Frequency Analytical Result Units
BOD Monthly
Electrical conductivity Monthly
Total dissolved solids Quarterly
Sodium Quarterly
Chloride Quarterly
Boron Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen Monthly
Nitrate nitrogen Monthly



C. POND MONITORING
Parameter: Freeboard Dissolved
Oxygen pH Odors Berm
Condition
Monitoring Frequency: Weekly Weekly Weekly Weekly Weekly
Sample Type: Observation Grab Grab Observation Observation
Units: feet mg/L pH units

Week 1
Date:
Pond No. 1
Pond No. 2
Pond No. 3
Pond No. 4
Pond No. 5
Pond No. 6
Pond No. 7
Pond No. 8
Pond No. 9
Pond No. 10
 Spreading Area

KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT Page 4


(month) (year)

Parameter: Freeboard Dissolved
Oxygen pH Odors Berm
Condition
Monitoring Frequency: Weekly Weekly Weekly Weekly Weekly
Sample Type: Observation Grab Grab Observation Observation
Units: feet mg/L pH units
Week 2
Date:
Pond No. 1
Pond No. 2
Pond No. 3
Pond No. 4
Pond No. 5
Pond No. 6
Pond No. 7
Pond No. 8
Pond No. 9
Pond No. 10
 Spreading Area


Week 3
Date:
Pond No. 1
Pond No. 2
Pond No. 3
Pond No. 4
Pond No. 5
Pond No. 6
Pond No. 7
Pond No. 8
Pond No. 9
Pond No. 10
 Spreading Area


Week 4
Date:
Pond No. 1
Pond No. 2
Pond No. 3
Pond No. 4
Pond No. 5
Pond No. 6
Pond No. 7
Pond No. 8
Pond No. 9
Pond No. 10
 Spreading Area

KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT Page 5


(month) (year)

D. VIOLATION REPORTING
Discuss all violations of the WDRs and MRP duri ng the monitoring period. For each violation,
explain the reason(s) for the violation and st eps that will be taken to prevent recurrence.




























KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT Page 6


(month) (year)

E. SUMMARY FACILITY INSPECTION AND REPAIR REPOR T
Inspection
Date Inspector Problems identified, repairs recommended, repairs
completed, and date of completion
Fence Condition (monthly)
Odors (weekly)




Pond berms (weekly)




Headworks (weekly)




Flow meter (weekly)




Piping system (weekly)






INFORMATION SHEET


ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNI TY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY

Background
Knights Landing Community Services Distric t owns and operates the Knights Landing
wastewater treatment facility (WWTF), which is ½ mile south of County Road 116 near
Knights Landing, in Yolo County. The Discharger proposes to expand the facility to
accommodate planned development in the community. Monthly sewer service rates were
$27 in 2006, and the correspond ing residential connection fee was $11,100 per equivalent
dwelling unit.

The existing WWTF consists of a wet well lift st ation, eight wastewater stabilization ponds on
approximately 20 acres and a 31.5-acre spre ading basin. The stabilization ponds are
operated as two parallel passive stabilization systems with four ponds each. The spreading
basin receives overflow from the eight ex isting ponds during the wet season only. The
WWTF does not use aerators or other active tr eatment systems. T he current average daily
dry weather flow is estimated to be 80,000 gallo ns per day (gpd). Risi ng groundwater levels
during extended periods of heavy rainfall may cause significant infiltration of groundwater into
the sewer system.

The community water supply is moderatel y saline and moderatel y hard, with high
concentrations of boron. Infl uent wastewater quality is most similar to typical domestic
wastewater and the use of the municipal water supply does not appear to cause an
unreasonable incremental increase in salinity as measured in the WWTF influent. However,
evapoconcentration as the wastewater flows fr om the primary ponds through to the final
ponds increases the overall salinity of the wastewater significantly beyond concentrations that would be considered a reasonable increment over the water supply concentrations.

The Discharger plans to expand the existing WW TF to serve a new residential subdivision,
which will increase the population served by t he WWTF from approximatel y 1,018 to 1,320.
The WWTF treatment and disposal capacity will be increased by converting part of the
existing land spreading area to two percolation/evaporation ponds. The remainder will
continue to be used as land spreading area when needed. The walls of the headworks
structure will be raised by one foot to provide 100-year flood protection.

The Discharger’s water balance capacity model indicates that the expanded WWTF will have
sufficient capacity for 105,000 gpd as an aver age daily dry weather flow (from August
through October each year) and 48.4 million gall ons (MG) as a total annual influent flow
(including I/I).

There are currently three groundwater monitori ng wells at the facili ty, and groundwater is
typically encountered at depths ranging from 7 to 14 feet below the surrounding ground
surface. The gradient direction of the sha llow groundwater varies fr om east to southwest,
but does not exhibit a consistent seasonal va riation. The Knights Landing Ridge Cut, which
parallels the WWTF along its ent ire length may strongly influence groundwater levels and
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
 2
flow directions. The groundwater monitoring resu lts for electrical conductivity, total dissolved
solids, sodium, iron, chloride, and manganese strongly i ndicate that the WWTF has
degraded groundwater quality. Addi tionally, coliform organisms we re routinely detected in
the downgradient monitoring wells.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
Surface water drainage is to t he Sacramento River near its conf luence with the Colusa Basin
Drain. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Calif ornia Regional Water Quality Control
Board Central Valley Region, Fourth Edition (Basin Plan), designates beneficial uses,
establishes water quality objectives, and contai ns implementation plans and policies for all
waters of the Basin. Beneficial uses often det ermine the water quality objectives that apply to
a water body. For example, waters designat ed as municipal and domestic supply must meet
the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for drin king waters. The Basi n Plan sets forth the
applicable beneficial uses (industrial, agricultura l, and municipal and domestic supply in this
instance) of groundwater, procedure for applic ation of water quality objectives, and the
process for and factors to consider in allocating waste assimilation capacity.

Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resoluti on No. 68-16, “Statement of
Policy With Respect to Maintaining High Qualit y Waters in California ,” or “Antidegradation
Policy” require that waters of the State that are better in quality than established water quality
objectives be maintained “consistent with the ma ximum benefit to the peop le of the State.”
Waters can be of high quality for some cons tituents or beneficial us es and not others.
Policies and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan.

Resolution 68-16 is applied on a case-by-ca se, constituent-by-constituent basis in
determining whether a certain degree of degradati on can be justified. It is incumbent upon
the Discharger to provide technical information fo r the Regional Board to evaluate that fully
characterizes:

• All waste constituents to be discharged;
• The background quality of the uppermost layer of the uppermost aquifer;
• The background quality of other wa ters that may be affected;
• The underlying hydrogeologic conditions;
• Waste treatment and control measures;
• How treatment and control measures are justified as best practicable treatment and
control;
• The extent to which the discharge will impact the quality of each aquifer; and
• The expected degree of degradation bel ow water quality objectives.

In allowing a discharge, the Regional Board must comply with CWC Section 13263 in setting
appropriate conditions. The Regional Board is required, relative to the groundwater that may
be affected by the discharge, to implement the Basin Plan and consider the beneficial uses to
be protected along with the water quality objective s essential for that purpose. The Regional
Board need not authorize the full utilization of the waste assi milation capacity of the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0149
KNIGHTS LANDING COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT KNIGHTS LANDING WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
YOLO COUNTY
 3
groundwater (CWC 13263(b)) and mu st consider other waste di scharges and factors that
affect that capacity.

Certain domestic wastewater constituents are not fully am enable to waste treatment and
control and it is reasonable to expect some impact on groundwater. Some degradation for
certain constituents is consis tent with maximum benefit to t he people of California because
the technology, energy, water recycling, an d waste management advant ages of municipal
utility service to the State far outweigh the env ironmental impact of a community that would
otherwise be reliant on numerous concentrated individual wa stewater systems. Economic
prosperity of local communities is of ma ximum benefit to the peopl e of California, and
therefore sufficient reason to accommodate wastewater discharge provided terms of
reasonable degradation are defined and met. The proposed Order authorizes some
degradation consistent with the maximum benefit to the People of the State but does not
authorize pollution (i.e., violation of any water quality objective).

Groundwater monitoring has been conducted around the facility, however additional
background groundwater quality data are needed; therefore staff is unable to establish final groundwater limits. Certain as pects of wastewater treatment and control practices may not
be justified as representative of Best Practicable Treatment and Control (BPTC). Reasonable time is necessary to gather s pecific information about the WWTP to make
informed, appropriate, long-term decisions. This proposed Or der, therefore, establishes
interim performance standards for salinity in the fo rm of effluent limitations as well as interim