Facility Description
The City of Newman (Discharger) owns and operates a wastewater treatment facility (WWTF).
The WWTF treats wastewater from residential, commercial, and industrial sources: a cheese
manufacturer, a turkey hatchery, and a tomato processor. As of 2016, the estimated population
of the City is approximately 11,000 residents. The WWTF discharge is currently regulated by
Order 98 -163, which set an influent flow limit of 1.69 million gallons per day (MGD) as a monthly
average dry weather flow (ADWF) .

The WWTF includes a bar screen, two unlined earth basins BASIN -1 and BASIN -2, an unlined
Oxidation Pond , two unlined effluent storage reservoirs with a total capacity of 230 million
gallons (MG), 60 acres of overland flow terraces, and 199 acres of land application areas (LAAs).
Based on two feet of freeboard, BASIN -1, BASIN -2, and Oxidation Pond have capacities of 7M G,
9 MG and 90 MG respectively.

On 23 January 2017, the Discharger submitted a letter stating that BASIN -1 is operating as an
anaerobic treatment basin rather than an aerobic treatment basin as originally designed. From
September 2014 through December 2016, the dissolved oxygen (DO) in BASIN -1 averaged
approximately 0.2 mg/L, with a maximum of 0.28 mg/L. WDRs 98 -163 set a minimum DO limit of
1.0 mg/L for all ponds to prevent objectionable odors beyond the boundary limits of the WWTF.
While BASIN -1 has not met the minimum DO limit, the Discharger reports that no objectionable
odors are apparent at the boundary of the WWTF because BASIN -1 efflue nt is further treated by
aerobic basins and odors are minimized. An inspection by Board staff on 17 August 2017
confirmed that objectionable odors were not noticeable on the WWTF property boundary.
The Discharger submitted a sludge volume report for BASIN -1 as part of the April 2017 RWD,
which states that operating BASIN -1 as an anaerobic treatment basin reduces high strength
BOD influent by sixty to eighty percent and is necessary to stabilize the BOD for aerobic
treatment. The Discharger states that converting BASIN -1 to a conventional aeration basin by
installing additional aerators, as originally proposed in the February 2015 RWD, is cost
prohibitive. The anaerobic operation of BASIN -1 may be contributing to conditions that mobilize
naturally occurring m etals in groundwater

Groundwater monitoring data indicate that groundwater upgradient of the WWTF is of poor
quality . Salinity concentrations in c ompliance groundwater monitoring wells surrounding the
WWTF are approximately double of the up -gradient moni toring wells. Average nitrate nitrogen
concentrations in all monitoring wells are less than the Title 22 Primary M aximum Contaminant
Level (Primary M CL) of 10 mg/L for nitrate. Monitoring data indicate an increasing trend for
nitrate that may be a result of long- term agricultural practices in the area.

The Discharger’s 2015 Urban Water Management Plan indicated that nitrate and hexavalent
chromium are the primary concerns in the potable groundwater supply. Three active supply
wells have nitrate concentrations above 50 percent of the Primary M CL. The City has stopped
using one supply water well where hexavalent chromium concentrations almost double the
Primary MCL , while t hree other supply wells have hexavalent chromium concentrations that are
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2018- 0024 2
CITY OF NEWMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
STANISLAUS COUNTY

either close to or in excess of the Primary MCL . Salinity constituent concentrations measured as
electrical conductivity (EC) and total dissolved solids (TDS) are also high in the city's water
supply.

Influent BOD concentrations to the WWTF indicate high-strength organic matter in the
community waste stream. I nfluent TDS and EC are approximately double that of the source
water , indicating considerable salinity contributions from community sewer and industry.

A private residence is located approximately 0.4 miles northwest and downgradient of the
WWTF. The residence is not identified in the RWD. Two wells are located on the residential
property, a 200 -foot agricultural well used for growing fodder crops and a 100- foot domestic well
that is used for general home uses but not as a source of potable water. The Discharger
collected g roundwater samples from the two wells in late 2017 . In a letter dated 17 November
2017, the Discharger’s consultant submitted an analysis report of the well samples. The
agricultural well was reported to have a TDS concentration of 6,490 mg/L and the domestic well
a TDS concentration of 3,700 mg/L) . Both wells were reported to have an arsenic concentration
of 0.004 mg/L. Based on general mineral and isotopic data , the Discharger’s consultant states
that these wells are not impacted from Newman WWTF wastewater discharge.

Regulatory Background
In March 2008, the Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) for the
construction of an additional storage reservoir to ensure adequate capacity for permitted influent
flow. Revised W DRs have not yet been adopted because groundwater degradati on concerns
with regard to salinity, arsenic, manganese, and iron were not addressed in the RWD .

As early as 2006, the Discharger proposed converting the potable groundwater supply to higher
quality surface water as a means of salinity source reduction, but no significant progress ha s yet
been made to acquire a surface water supply. From 2008 through 2017, the Discharger and
Central Valley Water Board staff worked to develop economically feasible source control
measures and wastewater treatment and disposal methods that would allow the City to increase
permitted wastewater flows .

In August 2012, the Discharger submitted a Salinity Impact Assessment that determined the cost
and financing of the surface water potable water supply project would be infeasible until the C ity
population had doubled. The initially -proposed alternative approach would use infiltration basins
to percolate Central California Irrigation District (CCID) surface water into groundwater
upgradient of the City with the intent of generally improving groundwater quality in the area. In
May 2013, t he Central Valley Water Board’s Executive Officer notified the Discharger that this
would not be an appropriate use of high- quali ty surface water . It was then suggested that CCID
water with an average EC of 800 µ mhos/cm be blended with effluent water with an average EC
of 3,800 µ mhos/cm to be used for irrigation. The Executive Officer also required the City to
begin taking immediate actions to reduce salinity sources, such as maximizing use of low salinity
groundwater supply wells and banning installation of new self -regenerating water softeners.

In February 2015, t he Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent (NOI) for State Water Resources
Control Board Recycl ed Water Use Order WQ 2016- 0068- DDW (Recycled Water Use General
Order) . The NOI proposed that farmer -owned land application areas will be enrolled in the City’s
recycled water use program, which would be regulated under the Recycled Water Use General
Orde r. The Discharger also submitted an updated RWD, which proposed using irrigation wells ,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2018- 0024 3
CITY OF NEWMAN
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
STANISLAUS COUNTY

rather than CCID water , for blending with effluent as irrigation water. The average EC of the
irrigation well water was estimated to be 1,800 µmhos/cm . In July 2015, Central Valley Water
Board staff issued a letter stating the RWD and NOI were incomplete. T he RWD did not include
an evaluation of groundwater quality at the wastewater treatment facility, an Antidegradation
Analysis, or a project schedule to achieve compliance.

In March 2017, the Discharger submitted a letter stating that they completed the actions, to the
extent feasible, required by the Executive Officer in May 2013. In April 2017, the Discharger
submitted a revised RWD, which contained sufficient information to develop these WDRs.

Planned Facility Changes
The Discharger is propos ing to modify the facility in two phases. This Order will allow the
Discharger to increase the influent ADWF limit from 1.25 MGD to 1.5 MGD in Phase 1 , and then
to 2.4 MGD in Phase 2, provided that the Discharger has demonstrated to the Central Valley
Water Board that the proposed WWTF modifications have been successfully completed .

CV-SALTS Regulatory Considerations
The Central Valley Water Board is developing amendments to the Basin Plan to incorporate new
strategies for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the waters and soils of the
Central Valley as part of the Central Valley Salinity Alternatives for Long -Term Sustainability
(CV-SALTS) initiative. The Salinity Control Program currently being developed would subject
dischargers that do not meet stringent salinity numeric values (700 µS/cm EC as a monthly
average) to protect the AGR beneficial use and 900 µS/cm EC as an annual average to protect
the M UN beneficial use) to performance -based salinity requirements and would require these
dischargers to participate in a basin -wide Prioritization and Optimization Study to develop a long -
term strategy for addressing salinity accumulation in the Central Valley.
The level of participation required of dischargers whose discharges do not meet stringent salinity
requirements will vary based on factors such as the amount of salinity in the discharge , local
conditions , and type of discharge. The Board anticipates that the CV -SALTS initiative will result
in regulatory changes that will be implemented through conditional prohibitions and modific ations
to many WDRs region- wide, including the WDRs that regulate discharges from the Newman
WWTF . More information regardi ng this regulatory planning process can be found at the
following lin k: https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralvalley/water_issues/salinity/

Legal Effect of Rescission of P rior WDRs or Orders on Existing Violations
The Board’s rescission of prior waste discharge requirements and/or monitoring and reporting
orders does not extinguish any violations that may have occurred during the time those waste
discharge requirements or orders were in effect. The Central Valley W ater Board reserves the
right to take enforcement actions to address violations of prior prohibitions, limitations,
specifications, requirements, or provisions of rescinded waste discharge requirements or orders
as allowed by law.

Discharge Limitations and Provisions
This Order establishes flow limits to the WWTF and a schedule to increase flow limits based on
completing proposed work . This Order establishes a performance based annual average

===PLANNED CHANGES===

