Existing Facility and Discharge
5. The WWTF consists of a 110,000- gallon flow equalization tank, head works , bar
screen , two SBR ’s, an aerobic digester, a vacuum -assisted sludge drying floor, a
decant balance tank for decanted clear liquor, a tertiary disk filter and a chlorine
contact basin. The WWTF is also equipped with a 200,000- gallon emergency storage
tank. Solids removed by the bar screen are bagged and placed in the municipal waste dumpster at the site. Disinfection is achieved by adding sodium hypochlorite (12.5%)
to the treated wastewater in the chlorine contact basin. The contact basin is a 48 -inch
diameter reinforced concrete pipe approximately 36 feet long and has insufficient capacity to achieve a 90 minute modal time. The c ontact basin is beneath the floor
slab of the WWTF , upstream of the effluent pumps , and cannot be reasonably
extended to gain additional volume for chlorine contact time. The required volume to achieve a 90 minute modal time is provided by the effluent force main, which is
approximately 1,680 linear feet of 6- inch diameter pipe and an existing 21,000 gallon
effluent storage tank near the percolation ponds.
 6. The WWTF receives untreated sewage from various dormitories, single f amily
residences, offices, laun dry facilities , and a cafeteria. The camp host s approximately
25,000 people annually during the months of June, July, and August. The influent
wastewater anal ytical results for 2012, required by Monitor ing and Reporting Program
(MRP) No. 94- 106 are summarized below.

Parameter Units Number of
Samples Mean
Result
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) mg/L 20 128
Total suspended solids (TSS) mg/L 20 85
Settleable Solids (SS) ml/L 12 1.2

7. The Discharger regularly monitors treated effluent in accor dance with the MRP.
Effluent monitoring data for 2012 are summarized below.
Parameter Units Number of
Samples Mean
Result
BOD mg/L 23 ND
TSS mg/L 23 ND
SS ml/L 155 ND
Total Coliform MPN/100m L 23 <2
Electrical C onductivity (EC) umho s/cm 5 230
Nitrate as N mg/L 2 2.3



WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -3-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

8. Treated effluent is discharged to percolation/evaporation ponds in summ er through
early fall and to leach trenches in late fall through spring. Historically there were
twelve evaporation/percolation ponds connec ted in series by gravity pipelines that are
at least 2 feet below the top of the pond sidewalls. Ponds 5 and 6 have been
combined and ponds 8 and 9 have been combined. Surface aerators are in ponds 1
and combined pond 5/6. Total capacity of the pond sys tem is 25.7 acre feet (8.374
million gallons). There are a total of 69 leach trenches , each 100 feet long. The
leach trenches are 10 feet deep and 2 feet wide. A 4- inch perforated PVC pipe is
buried 2 feet below ground surface with 1.5- inch gravel below and native backfill
above the pipe.
 9. Treated effluent from the evaporation/percolation ponds is used to sprinkler -irrigate a
3.2-acre reclamation area (also referred to as sprayfield) of grass (50- 50 mix of Blue
Grass and Perennial Rye Grass) and native v egetation. Approximat ely two acres of
the grass portion of the sprayfield is used for softball or other similar recreational
activities and a heliport for the U.S. Forest Service and Life Flight helicopters. The
remainder of the sprayfield consists of native vegetation on cut or fill slopes and
natural terrain. The sprayfield overlays approximately 40 leach trenches . Discharge
to this area alternates between the leach trenches in the late fall through spring and to
the sprayfield in summer through early fall when the ponds are in use. Discharge via
the leach trenches and sprayfiel d do not occur simultaneously.

10. The Discharger continuously monitors the chlorine dose used for disinfection and
collects a sample of effluent (following disinfection) on a dai ly basis and analyzes the
samp le for residual chlorine levels .

11. Sludge from the SBR’s is pumped into an aerobic digester where a polymer is added
to aid in flocculation. Clear liquid is decanted from the digester and returned to the
SBR’s. The remaining sludge in the digester is pumped to a vacuum -assisted drying
floor within the main WWTF building. Following drying, the sludge is transported via
front loader and truck to the sludge storage area where it is spread on bare ground for
further drying by the sun. The Discharger turns the spread sludge every few days
until it is dry enough to crumble instead of smear. Following this procedure, the sludge is stockpiled at the same location. A composite sample of dried sludge is
analyzed twice per year for classification . The Discharger indicates dried sludge from
2010 and 2011 has been classified as Class A biosolids. Dried sludge is used as a soil amendment at the site or hauled off -site.
 12. Surface waters are protected from runoff of effluent by a minimum of 2-feet of
freeboard in each percolation/evaporation pond, rotation of discharge to leach
trenches to allow for periods of rest , inspection and preventative maintenance of
leach trench distribution boxes, sprinkler irrigation of sprayfield in summer and ea rly
fall at rates that preclude standing water , and covering biosolid stockpiles with tarp.


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -4-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
13. The Discharger is exploring the logistics of accepting wastewater flows from the
nearby Hume Subdivision, which cur rently discharges domestic waste to individual
septic systems. In order to accommodate the camp’s peak seasonal monthly
discharge and potential wastewater flows from the subdivision, the Discharger
submitted the RWD requesting a n inc rease of the permitted flow rate to 0.275 mgd.
 14. Peak flows at the camp and Hume Subdivision are during June, July, and August.
The aver age daily flows during this period are 110,000 gallons per day (gpd) for the
camps and 162,900 gpd for the Hume Subdivision.
 15. The discharge infrastructure of the WWTF will be modified so that treated effluent can be discharged directly to the sprayfield when recycled water is needed and to preclude discharge of treated effluent from the evaporation/percolation ponds to the
sprayfield.
Wastewat er Collection System
16. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes,
manholes, and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility. A “sanitary sewer overflow” (SSO) is defined as a discharge to
ground or surface water from the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the
treatment facility. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines, etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not considered SSOs, provided that the
waste is fully contained within these temporary storage/conveyance facilities.
 17. SSOs consist of varying mixtures of domestic and commercial wastewater, depending on land us es in the sewage collection system. The most common causes of SSOs
are grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages, sewer line flood damage,
manhole structure failures, vandalism, pump station mechanical failures, power outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or contractor -
caused blockages.
 18. SSOs often contain pathogenic organisms, toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and grease, suspended solids, and other
pollutants. SSOs to surfac e waters can cause temporary exceedances of applicable
water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic life, and impair recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface waters in the area.
19. The Discharger is not required to obtain coverag e under State Water Board
Order 2006- 0003- DWQ because neither the sewer system nor the WWTF is publicly
owned. Therefore, the Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -5-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

adequately maintain, operate, and prevent overflows from its sanitary sewer system,
and to comply with this Order with regard to responding to and reporting all SSOs.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The potable water supply comes f rom seven wells, Long Meadow Creek, and Hume
Lake. Based on a water supply monitoring e vent during May 2012, t he chemical
character of the potable water supply is summarized below.

Parameter Units Average of
Seven
Wells Long
Meadow
Creek Hume
Lake
TDS mg/L 109 55 52
EC umhos/cm 156 56 59
Total Hardness mg/L 38 18 19
Calcium mg/L 12 5.3 5.7
Magnesium mg/L 1.9 1.1 1.1
Sodium mg/L 18 4.7 4.9
Potassium mg/L <2.0 <2.0 <2.0
Total Alkalinity mg/L 66 32 33
Sulfate mg/L 2.0 <2.0 <2.0
Chloride mg/L 9.0 2.0 2.6
Nitrate as NO 3 mg/L <2.0 <2.0 <2.0
Ammonia as NO 3 mg/L 0.13 <0.10 <0.10
pH pH units 7.5 7.4 7.4
Iron ug/L 4,141 210 340
Boron ug/L 133 <100 <100
Orthophosphate mg/L <0.6 <0.6 <0.6

The weighted average TDS and EC for water supply monitoring in May 2012 were 64
mg/L and 76 umhos/cm, respectively.

21. The WWTF is approximately 60 mi les east of Fresno in the Sierra Nevada Mountains
at an elevation of approximately 5,300 feet above mean sea level (MSL). T he area
around the site is uneven with drainage to the north east towards Hume Lake, which is
an artificial lake, approximately 87 acres in size. Hume Lake is a tributary to the
Kings River.



WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -6-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

22. The WWTF is surrounded by national forest lands with t he Hume Subdivision to the
east and Hume Lake to the northe ast. Annual precipitation in the vi cinity averages
approximately 40 inches, the 10 0-year total annual precipitation is approximately
79 inches, and the reference evapotranspiration rate is approximately 57 inches per
year.
Groundwater Considerations
23. A technical report submitted with the RWD summarized field activities conducted in
and around the sprayfield in order to determine infiltration rates. The technical report
indicates the geology of the sprayfield consists of 2 to 6 feet of silty sand overlying 17 to 40 feet of decomposed granite overlying more resistant granitic bedroc k. No
fractures were visible in any of the test pits that were excavated as part of the field activities. Depth to groundwater is greater than 15 feet below ground surface. No
bedrock outcrops exist on the surface.

24. Groundwater monitoring is not required as part of the current MRP. However, groundwater can be characterized by analytical data collected from water supply wells in the vicinity of the WWTF and summarized in Finding 20 .
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
25. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition, revised
January 2004 (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of
the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the State
Water Board. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(a), waste discharge
requirements must implement the Basin Plan.
 26. Local drainage is to Hume Lake, which is tributary to the Main Fork of the Kings River .
The beneficial uses of this reach of the Kings River , as stated in the Basin Plan, are
municipal and domestic supply; fresh water replenishment ; water contact recreation;
non-contact water recreation; warm freshwater habitat; cold freshwater habitat ;
wildlife habitat ; rare, threatened, or endangered species; and spawning, reproduction,
and/or early development .

27. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as municipal and domestic supply, agricultural supply, and industrial supply.
 28. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater . The Toxicity objective
requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic substances in concentr ations
that produce detrimental physiological responses in human, plant, animal, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses. The Basin Plan states that when compliance with a narrative objective is required to protect specific beneficial uses,


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -7-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

the Central Valley Water Board will, on a case- by-case basis, adopt numerical
limitations in order to implement the narrative objective.

29. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objective for chemical constituents, at a minimum, require s waters desig nated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the
MCLs specified in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 22) .
The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses .
 30. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objective for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven- day period shall be
less than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater.
 31. The Basin Plan identifies the greatest long -term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake
Basin as the increase in salinity in groundwater, which has accelerated due to the intensive use of soil and water resources by irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan
recognizes that degradation is unavoidable until a valley -wide drain is constructed to
carry salts out of the basin. Until the drain is available, the Basin Plan establishes
several salt management r equirements, including:
a. The incremental increase in salts from use and treatment must be controlled to the
extent possible. The maximum electrical conductivity (EC) in the discharge shall
not exceed the EC of the source water plus 500 umhos/cm. When the source
water is from more than one source, the EC shall be a weighted average of all
sources.
b. Discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwater shall not exceed
an EC of 1,000 umhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or a boron content of
1.0 mg/L.
Antidegradation Analysis
32. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68- 16 (“Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the State”) (hereafter Resolution 68- 16) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.
b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future
beneficial uses.
c. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in st ate
and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives,
and


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -8-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

d. The discharger employs best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize
degradation.
33. Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents as sociated with
discharges from a municipal wastewater facility , after effective source control,
treatment, and control measures are implemented, is consistent with the maximum
benefit to the people of the s tate.
 34. The Discharger aids in the economic prosperi ty of the region by direct employment
and provides a tax base for county government. Provided the discharge from the WWTF complies with State and Central Valley Water Board plans and policies, limited
degradation that may occur due to the continued operat ion of the WWTF is to the
maximum benefit to the people of the State.
 35. Constituents of concern that have the potential to cause degradation of high quality
waters include, in part, organics, nutrients, and salts.

a. To reduce the organic load of the dischar ge, the WWTF includes two SBR’s that
provide aerobic biological treatment of the raw wastewater which is expected to
prevent odor and nuisance conditions and preclude degradation of groundwater
from organic loading.
b. For n itrogen, the discharge has an average nitrate as nitrogen concentration of 2.3
mg/L which should not cause degradation of groundwater.
c. For salinity, the discharge with an average EC of 230 umhos/cm meets the Basin
Plan limit of source water EC plus 500 umhos/cm or a maximum EC of 1,000
umho s/cm for discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwater
and is not anticipated to degrade groundwater such that it exceeds water quality
objectives.
36. This Order establishes terms and conditions to ensure that any degradation that
results fro m the discharge does not reasonably affect present and anticipated uses
and does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in State and regional policies and complies with applicable water quality objectives .
 37. The Discharger provides treatment and control of the discharge that incorporates:
tertiary treatment and disinfection of wastewater; wastewater treatment for BOD and nitrogen removal; sludge dewatering; sludge used agronomically on site or shipped off-site; compliance with the State Water Board’s Operator Certification Program for
private WWTF’s; and source water and effluent monitoring. These treatment or
control practices can be considered “best practicable treatment or control” for the purposes of Resolution 68- 16.



WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2012- 0125 -9-
HUME LAKE CHRISTIAN CAMPS, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

38. The discharge and th e potential for groundwater degradation allowed in this Order is
consistent with the Antidegradation Policy since: (a) the limited degradation is of
maximum benef it to people of the State, (b) the limited degradation allowed by this
Order will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated beneficial uses of groundwater, or result in water quality less than water quality objectives , and (c) the
Discharger has implemented “ best practicable treatment or control” to minimize
degradation.
Water Recycling Regulatory Consi derations
39. Undisinfected domestic wastewater contains human pathogens tha t are typically
measured using total or fecal coliform organism as indicator organisms. The
California De partment of Public Health (DPH) , which has primary statewide
responsibility for protecting public health, has establis hed statewide criteria in Title 22,
section 60301 et seq. for the use of recycled water.

40. A 1996 Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between DPH and the State Water Board
on the use of recycled water establis hes basic principles relative to the agencies and
the regional water boards. In addition, the MOA allocates primary areas of responsibility and authority between these agencies, and provides for methods and
mechanisms necessary to assure ongoing, continuous future coordination of activities
relative to the use of recycled water in California. This Order implements the
applicable portions of the Title 22 water recycling regulation in accordance with the
MOA.

41. The Discharger submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report in July 2002 to the Central
Valley Water Board and DPH pursuant to Title 22 for water recycling of disinfected
tertiary recycled water. DPH provided comments to the Engineering Report on
6 August 2002 that include d a requirement for contin uous monitoring of chlorine
residual levels . The Discharger submitted a revised Engineering Report, with DPH
comments incorporated, to the Central Valley Water Board in January 2010. The
revised report was approved by DPH on 26 September 2012.

42. As noted in Finding 10, the Discharger does not continuously monitor chlorine
residual levels following disinfection. This Order includes a Provision for the Discharger to install equipment to monitor chlorine residual levels in accordance with DPH and Title 22 re quirements.
Other Regulatory Considerations
43. Based on the threat and complexity of the discharge, the plant is determined to be
classified as 2B as defined below:
a. Category 2 threat to water quality: “Those discharges of waste that could impair the designate d beneficial uses of the