FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities in the western and
southern portions of the City of Lathrop, the Crossroads Commercial Center area, and
Lathrop Gateway Business Park and serves a population of approximately 13,200. The
design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 2.5 million gallons per day (MGD ).ORDER R5-2 022-0004  
NPDES CA0085359 
CITY OF LATHROP  
CONSOLIDATED TREATMENT FACILITY 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5Industry within the service area includes manufacturing, food processing, distribution 
facilities, restaurants, and trucking companies. Waste streams from these industries are 
relatively high-strength commercial/industrial wastewater. In 2005, the Discharger 
adopted an Industrial Sewer Use Ordinance (Ordinance), which established pretreatment 
standards prior to discharging industrial wastewater to the Facility.  The Ordinance 
includes numeric effluent limits for total dissolved solids (T DS), biochemical oxygen 
demand (BOD), and nitrate.   The Discharger currently has industrial waste discharge 
permits with 3 significant industrial users to control salinity discharges to the Facility. 
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The headworks and primary treatment system at the Facility consists of a three-
stage screening process (fine screening, grit removal, ultra-fine screening) and a
950,000-gallon influent equalization tank used to allow a constant flow , determined
by the plant operator, to the biological treatment system by storing a portion of the
influent flow received during peak flow period of the day and returning the stored
wastewater for treatment during low flow periods. Biological treatment consists of a
two-train system with each treatment train consisting of an anoxic basin followed by
an aeration basin, with the anoxic and aeration basins of each train separated by
baffling. Following the biological treatment, a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system
(operating in parallel), consisting of four total (three installed and one for future use)
membrane tanks (each tank contains four modules) provides liquid-solid separation
by a selective membrane barrier. Following filtration, the Facility injects sodium
hypochlorite solution to disinfect prior to entering the chlorine contact basin and
dechlorinates using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to the San Joaquin River.
An emergency storage basin is used to temporarily hold influent flows exceeding the
capacity of the headworks. It also receives water from the MBR and effluent from the
chlorine contact basin that does not meet permit requirements . The Facility will also
utilize cooling ponds after dechlorination as needed to cool the effluent prior to
discharge to the San Joaquin River to meet temperature effluent limitations . The
emergency storage basin and cooling ponds are lined with at least 40-mil high-
density polyethylene liner.
The waste activated sludge (WAS) generated from the Facility is pumped to sludge
handling facilities. The sludge handling facilities include a 190,000-gallon aerobic
sludge storage tank, two belt filter press units housed in the dewatering building, and
a concrete pad for “air drying” of the dewatered sludge. Dewatered cake from the
filter press is transferred either to a sludge haul truck or to the drying bed for
supplemental drying when weather conditions permit. Air-dried sludge is temporarily
stored on the drying bed until a sufficient volume has accumulated to warrant
transporting the material for land application. Transportation and disposal/reuse of
the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
Effluent will either be discharged to the San Joaquin River or to the recycled water
distribution system. Discharge to surface water will occur when the recycled water
distribution system is at capacity. As mentioned above, other WDRs regulate ,
discharges to land, the production of recycled water, and the recycled water
distribution system.ORDER R5-2 022-0004  
NPDES CA0085359 
CITY OF LATHROP  
CONSOLIDATED TREATMENT FACILITY 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1.The Facility is located in section S2 T2S R6E , Mount Diablo Base and Meridian ,
as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2.Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to San
Joaquin River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 37° 47' 42" North
and latitude 121° 18' 25" West.
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data –
Not Applicable
D. Compliance Summary – Not Applicable
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Increase Average Dry Weather Flow to 6.0 MGD.  The Facility is planning to
increase the permitted Average Dry Weather Flow from 2.5 to 6.0 MGD at full
buildout. The Discharger does not anticipate this increase within the 5-year permit
term. The permitted increase of flow will depend on the Discharger providing the
Central Valley Water Board both a certification that the Facility treatment facilities
have been upgraded to accommodate the increased flows, as well as an updated
mixing zone and dilution credit request to support reissuance of effluent limitations
for constituents that require dilution.
III.