FACILITY DESCRIPTION  
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communit ies in the western and 
southern portion s of the City of Lathrop, the Crossroads Commercial Center area , and 
Lathrop Gateway Business Park and serves a population of approximately 13,200 . The 
design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 2.5 million gallons per day ( MGD ). 
Industry within the service area  include s manufacturing, food processing, distribution 
facilities, restaurants, and trucking companies. Waste streams from these industries  are 
relatively high -strength commercial/industrial wastewater.  In 2005, the Discharger 
adopted an In dustrial Sewer Use Ordinance (Ordinance), which establishe d pretreatment 
standards prior to discharging industrial wastewater to the Facility.  The Ordinance 
City of Lathrop  ORDER R5 -2022 -0004 -01 
Consolidated Treatment Facility  NPDES CA0085359  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-5 includes numeric effluent limits for total dissolved solids (T DS), biochemical oxygen 
demand ( BOD ), and nitrate.   The Discharger currently has industrial waste discharge 
permits  with 3 significant  industrial users  to control salinity discharges to the Facility . 
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls  
The headworks and primary treatment system at the Facility consists of a three -
stage screening process  (fine screening, grit removal, ultra -fine screening ) and a 
950,000 -gallon  influent equaliz ation tank used to allow a constant flow, determined 
by the plant operator, to the biological treatment system by storing a portion of the 
influent flow received during peak flow period of the day and returning the stored 
wastewater for treatment during lo w flow periods.  Biological treatment consists of a 
two-train system with each treatment train consisting of an anoxic basin followed by 
an aeration basin, with the anoxic and aeration basins of each train separated by 
baffling. Following the biological tre atment , a membrane bioreactor  (MBR)  system  
(operating in parallel) , consisting of four total (three installed and one for future use) 
membrane tanks (each tank contains four modules ) provides liquid -solid separation 
by a selective membrane barrier. Followi ng filtration, t he Facility injects sodium 
hypochlorite  solution to disinfect  prior to entering the chlorine contact basin  and 
dechlorinates using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to the San Joaquin River.  
An emergency storage basin is used to temporari ly hold influent flows exceeding  the 
capacity of the headworks. It also receives water from the MBR and effluent from the 
chlorine contact basin that does not meet permit requirements . The Facility will also 
utilize cooling ponds after d echlorination as needed to cool the effluent prior to 
discharge to the San Joaquin River  to meet temperature effluent limitations . The 
emergency storage basin and cooling ponds are lined with at least 40 -mil high -
density polyethylene liner.  
The waste activa ted sludge (WAS) generated from the CTF is pumped to a 190,000 -
gallon  aerobic sludge storage tank.  In addition, the existing sludge handling facilities 
include two belt filter press units housed in the dewatering building and a concrete 
pad for “air dryin g” of the dewatered sludge. Dewatered cake from the filter press is 
transferred either to a sludge haul truck or to the drying bed for storage or 
supplemental drying when weather conditions permit.  The sludge beds are used 
daily, the beds are concrete lin ed, and any excess liquid is pumped to the 
headworks.  Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. 
EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.  
Effluent will either be discharged to the San Joaquin River or to the recycled water 
distribution sy stem. The Discharger recycles a portion of its wastewater for irrigation 
of agricultural and landscape use areas. Recycled water distribution is regulated by 
separate State Water Board Water Quality Order WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW, Water 
Reclamation Requirements fo r Recycled Water Use. This order regulates the 
production of recycled water.  Discharge to surface water will occur when the 
recycled water distribution system is at capacity.  
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters  
1. The Facility is located in section S2 T2S R6E , Mount Diablo Base and Meridian , 
as shown in Attachment B, a part of this Order.  
City of Lathrop  ORDER R5 -2022 -0004 -01 
Consolidated Treatment Facility  NPDES CA0085359  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-6 2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to San 
Joaquin River , a water of the United States at a point latitude 37° 47' 42" North 
and latitude 121° 18' 25" West. 
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self -Monitoring Report (SMR) Data  – 
Not Applicable  
D. Compliance Summary  – Not Applicable  
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes  
Increase Average Dry Weather Flow to 6.0 MGD.  The Facility is planning to 
increase the permitted Average Dry Weather Flow from 2.5 to 6.0 MGD at full 
buildout. The Discharger does not anticipate  this increase  within the 5 -year permit 
term. The permitted increase of flow will depend on the Discharger providing the 
Central Valley Water Board both a certification that the Facility treatment facilities 
have been upgraded to accommodate the increased flows, as well as an updated 
mixing zone and dilution credit r equest to support reissuance of effluent limitations 
for constituents that require dilution.  
III.