Existing Facility and Discharge
5. Start -up activities and operational trials began in January 2009. Treated effluent was
cycled back to the collection system during the first 18 months of operation for further
treatment at the Fresno- Clovis Metropolitan Regional Wastewater Reclamation
Facility (Regional Facility), which curr ently operates under WDRs Order 5- 01-254. I n
July 2010, the WWRF began discharging periodically either to the Copper River
Country Club golf course or t o the Regional Facility collection sy stem until the WWRF
was shut down in October 2013 to facilitate construction of the ultraviolet ( UV) light
disinfection system .
6. The WWRF treats domestic and commercial wastewater from Copper River Ranch, a
760-acre community development , plus flows generated from approximately
160-acres of neighboring residential/commercial area south of Copper Avenue.
7. The WWRF is designed to treat up to a monthly average of 0.71 mgd and a daily
maximum of 1.07 mgd of municipal wastewater to disinfected tertiary recycled water standards as defined by Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter
Title 22). The WWRF's treatment process, in order of operation, consists of influent
pumps, an in- line influent flow meter, mechanical screening, sequencing batch
reactors for nitrogen removal, a flow equalization tank, chemical coagulation, cloth
media filtration, and disinfection.
8. Treated effluent from the WWRF is discharged to a 12- acre-foot, on-site storage pond,
which is lined with a single layer of 60- mil high density polyethylene. From the lined
storage pond, effluent is pumped via closed conduit pipe to an effluent distribution box adjacent to Lake F at the gol f course , where it is distributed during the night hours to
the golf course through the sprinkler irrigation system and to buffer vegetation adjacent to the golf course through drip irrigation systems.
9. Sludge is conveyed from the sequencing batch reactors to an approximately
41,000- gallon aerated sludge holding tank. Sludge is then pumped to the collect ion
system for further treatment at the Regional Facility.
10. If needed, effluent wastewater from the sequencing batch reactors and wastewater
from the lined storage pond can be pumped back to the sludge holding tank and discharged to the collection system fo r further treatment at the Regional Facility. A
process flow diagram of the WWRF is shown in Attachment B, which is attached
hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
11. The Discharger has an approved Pretreatment Program for the Regional Facility tha t it
also incorporates into the operation of the WWRF. This Pretreatment Program is necessary to protect the collection and treatment systems and prevent disruption of


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -3-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


the treatment processes at the WWRF. This Order requires the Discharger to
continue to implement its existing Pretreatment Program at the WWRF, as it did under
Order R5 -2006- 0090- 01, and as it committed to in the May 2011 RWD.

12. Influent and e ffluent samples are required by Monitoring and Reporting Program
R5-2006- 0090 -01 and ar e summarized in the table below:
Influent and Effluent Data (2010 through 2013 )
Parameter Units Influent Effluent
# of
Samples Average
Result # of
Samples Average
Result
Total Coliform MPN/100mL -- -- 588 <2
Settleable Solids ml/L 619 23 579 <0.1
BOD 5 -day @ 20°C mg/L 271 279 235 2.4
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 277 244 258 <5
pH standard units 499 1 500 2
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm 277 653 259 544
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 276 342 259 326
Ammonia as Nitrogen mg/L 277 33 54 1.9
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L -- -- 165 3.2
Total Nitrogen mg/L -- -- 154 4.7
 1. Influent pH values ranged from 6.3 to 8.4 standard units.
2. Effluent pH values ranged from 6.2 to 7.8 standard units.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Discharge
13. The City of Fresno has eliminate d the point of discharge to Basin DE, which is
hydraulically connected to the San Joaquin River. The original intent of this discharge option was to provide the WWRF with an alternative discharge point when wet weather precludes the use of recycled water at the Copper River Country Club golf course. Due to slower than predicted population growth in the service area, wastewater flows have not reached the level in which discharge to Basin DE is needed.

14. The City of Fresno replaced the chlorine disinfection system with a TrojanUVFit ™
18AL40 UV disinfection system. The UV disinfection system includes two duty
reactors and one stand -by reactor. In July 2014, the City of Fresno conducted a
spot-check bi oassay validation test on flow rates up to 150 gallons per minute (gpm )
per reactor in order to demonstrate conformance with design and proper installation and operation of the validated UV system. In a letter dated 25 August 2014, the State
Water Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW) (formerly the
California Department of Public Health, Drinking Water Program) , approved the
spot-check bio assay validation test report . The former chlorine contact basin will be
utilized for flow equalization prior to UV disinfection. Since the UV disinfection system
was v alidated up to a total flow rate of 300 gpm (two duty reactors up to 150 gpm
each) , this Order limits the effluent flow rate from the WWRF to 0.43 mgd (equivalent
to 300 gpm) until the UV disinfection system can be approved by DDW at higher flow
rates.


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -4-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


15. The City of Fresno submitted a letter, dated 5 September 2014, requesting to operate
the UV disinfection system in accordance with the 2003 National Water Research
Institute (NWRI)/Water Resource Foundation Ultraviolet Disinfection Guidelines for
Drinking Water and Water Reuse (UV Guidelines) until the control system can be
reprogrammed in accordance with the 201 2 NWRI UV Guidelines. The City of Fresno
indicated it may take two to three months to complete reprogramming of the control
system. In an email dated 15 September 2014, DDW indicated it had no objections to
the Discharger's submitted control proposal.

Site Specific Conditions
16. Source water for the City of Fresno is obtained from a series of groundwater supply
wells and the City of Fresno Surface Wa ter Treatment Facility . The flow -weighted
average electrical conductivity and total dissolved solids concentration of source water from July 2010 through March 2014 were 275 micromhos per centimeter
(umhos/cm) and 201 milligrams per liter (mg/L), respecti vely.

17. The land surface in the vicinity of the WWRF is generally flat with a slight slope to the
northwest. Elevation at the WWRF is approximately 350 feet above sea level. The San Joaquin River is approximately 1.5 miles to the west of the WWRF.

18. According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Flood Insurance Rate
Map number 06019C1020H, the WWRF is in Zone X, an area determined to be outside the 500 -year floodplain ( less than a 0.2% annual chance of flooding) .

19. According to the Web Soil Survey published by the United States Department of
Agriculture , Natural Resources Conservation Service, soils at the WWRF are
comprised primarily of Hanford course sandy loam, which is described as well drained; negligible to low runoff, with moderately rapid permeability. Soils at the golf course are comprised primarily of Pollasky -Montpellier complex, which is described as
well drained, medium to rapid runoff, with moderate permeability. Uses include annual range and dry farmed small grain, usually barley and limited sprinkler irrigated pasture.

20. The north Fresno area is characterized as semi -arid with hot dry summers and cool
winters. Annual precipitation in the vicinity of the WWRF averages approximately
11.5 inches, the 100- year total annual precipi tation is approximately 21.6 inches, and
the reference evapotranspiration is approximately 53 inches per year.

Groundwater Conditions
21. Three groundwater monitoring wells (MW -1 through MW -3) were installed in 2006 to a
depth of 180 feet below ground surface (ft. bgs.) to monitor the effects of percolation
from Ba sin DE . According to the well installation report
1, a significant clay layer was
encountered in each borehole extending from 104 to 142 ft. bgs. Groundwater was

1 Kenneth D. Schmidt and Associates, Report on Results of Monitor Wells Installation at the Copper River Ranch WWTF, May 2006.


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -5-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


not encountered above the clay layer. Medium to very course sand, gravel, and
cobbles were encountered be neath the clay layer. Because of the substantial clay
layer, groundwater in the underlying coarse- grained deposits is confined.

22. Based on the fourth quarter 2013 groundwater monitoring event, depth to groundwater
measured in the three groundwater monitoring wells ranged from approximately 80 to 125 ft. bgs. The associated potentiometric surface map indicates groundwater flow
towards the northwest, which is consistent with historical gro undwater elevation data.
As such, MW -1 is upgradient of, and MW -2 and MW -3 are both cross -gradient to,
Basin DE. Groundwater quality data are summarized in the table below. Treated
effluent from the WWRF has never been discharged to Basin DE.

October 2013 Groundwater Monitoring Data
Parameter Units MW-1 MW-2 MW-3
Coliform, Total MPN/100mL <1.0 <1.0 <1.0
pH pH units 7.0 7.1 7.1
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm 402 501 590
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 255 336 359
Ammonia as Nitrogen mg/L <0.50 <0.50 <0.50
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L 1.5 2.2 3.5
Total Nitrogen mg/L 1.8 2.3 3.6
Chloride mg/L 49 37 29
Sulfate mg/L 17 48 61
Bicarbonate mg/L 97 150 180
Total Organic Carbon mg/L 0.844 0.763 0.612
Calcium mg/L 21.3 39.5 54
Iron mg/L <0.05 <0.05 <0.05
Manganese mg/L <0.005 <0.005 <0.005
Potassium mg/L 4 4 6
Sodium mg/L 42.6 41.8 39.5

23. Since the option to discharge to Basin DE has been eliminated, this Order includes a
Provision requiring the City of Fresno to properly destroy the groundwater monitoring wells in accordance with state and local requirements or demonstrate it will properly
maintain the wells in accordance with Section 115700 of the California Health and
Safety Code.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses , and Regulatory Considerations
24. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition , revised
January 2004 (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basi n, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted by the State
Water Board. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(a), waste discharge
requirements must implement the Basin Plan.
25. The WWRF and golf course are in Detailed Analysis Unit 234 within the Kings Basin
hydrologic unit. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -6-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


groundwater as municipal and domestic supply (MUN) , agricultural supply (AGR),
and industrial service supply (IND) .

26. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical
constituents, tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater. It also sets forth a
numeric objective for total coliform organisms.

27. The Basin Plan identifies the greatest long -term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake
Basin as the increase in salinity in groundwater, which has accelerated due to the
intensive use of soil and water resources by irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan establishes several salt management requirements, including:

a. The incremental increase in salts from use and treatment must be controlled to the extent possible. The maximum electrical conductivity (EC) in the discharge shall not exceed the EC of the source water plus 500 umhos/cm. When the source water is from more than one source, the EC shall be a weighted average of all sources.
b. Discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwater shall not exceed an EC of 1,000 umhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or a boron content of 1.0 mg/L.

28. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objective for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven- day period shall be
less than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater.
 29. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, at a
minimum, require waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the
maximum contaminant levels ( MCLs ) specified in Title 22. The Basin Plan recognizes
that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.

30. The narrative toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic
substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in human, animal, plant, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses.

31. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site- specific evaluation of
those constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses.
The Basin Plan states that when compliance with a narrative objective is required to protect specific beneficial uses, the Central Valley Water Board will, on a case- by-
case basis, adopt numerical limitations in order to implement the narrative objective.

32. In the absence of specific numerical water quality limits, the Basin Plan methodology is to consider any relevant published criteria. General salt tolerance guidelines, such


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -7-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


as Water Quality for Agriculture by Ayers and Westcot and similar references indicate
that yield reductions in nearly all crops are not evident when irrigation water has an
EC less than 700 umhos/cm. There is, however, an eight - to ten -fold range in salt
tolerance for agricultural crops and the appropriate salinity values to protect
agriculture in the Central Valley are considered on a case- by-case basis. It is
possible to achieve full yield potential with waters having EC up to 3,000 umhos/cm if the proper leaching fraction is provided to maintain soil sali nity within the tolerance of
the crop.

33. The Central Valley Water Board is currently implementing the CV -SALTS initiative to
develop a Basin Plan amendment that will establish a salt and nitrate management plan for the Central Valley. Through this effort, the Basin Plan will be amended to
define how the narrative water quality objectives are to be interpreted for the
protection of agricultural use. If new information or evidence indicates that groundwater limitations different that those prescribed herein are appropriate, this Order will be reopened to incorporate such limits.

Antidegradation Analysis
34. State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 68-16 (“Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the State”) (hereafter Resolution 68- 16) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and ant icipated future
beneficial uses,
b. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives,
c. The discharger employs best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize
degradation, and
d. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the sta te.

35. An antidegradation analysis for groundwater was included in Order R5 -2006- 0090 -01
and was based on a January 2005 report prepared by Kenneth D. Schmidt and
Associates entitled Antidegradation Evaluation for Copper River Ranch (hereafter
referred to as Antidegradation Evaluation). Data for first encountered groundwater
was not available at the time the Antidegradation Evaluation was conducted; instead
it was based on groundwater quality from deep water supply wells.

The Antidegradation Evaluation indicated the discharge would cause existing groundwater to be degraded by total dissolved solids (TDS), but it would be comparable to the impact from irrigated agriculture that existed prior to construction of
the WWRF . The a verage TDS concentration of groundwater extracted from water
supply wells in the vicinity of the WWRF was estimated to be approximately 315 mg/L. Therefore, Order R5-2006- 0090 -01 included a groundwater limitation for TDS
of 315 mg/L (annual average). The averag e effluent TDS concentration of 326 mg/L


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -8-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


(see Finding 12) is less than the TDS concentration of first encountered groundwater
of 359 mg/L (see Finding 22); therefore, t he groundwater limitation is no longer
appropriate.

36. Constituents of concern that have the potential to cause degradation of high quality
waters include, in part, organics, nutrients, and salts.
a. For organics, the WWRF effectively reduces the influent BOD concentrations by approximately 99 percent (average influent BOD is 279 mg/L while the average
effluent BOD is 2.4 mg/L), which is expected to prevent odor and nuisance
conditions, minimize the potential for anoxic and reducing conditions in soil, and preclude iron and manganese groundwater degradation from organic loading.
b. For nitrogen, the sequencing batch reactors provide nitrification and partial
denitrification of the wastewater. Nitrification is a biological process that converts
organic nitrogen and ammonia to nitrite and converts nitrite to nitrate in an aerobic environment. Denitrif ication is a biological process that converts nitrate to nitrogen
gas under anoxic conditions. This Order keeps the performance based effluent limitation for total nitrogen of 10 mg/L (average monthly) from the existing Order R5-2006- 0090 -01 for discharge to the golf course. This effluent limitation along
with the requirement that application of wastewater shall be at reasonable application rates to the golf course for both nutrient and hydraulic loading should
preclude degradation of groundwater to the extent it exceeds water quality objectives.
c. For salinity, the discharge with an average EC of 544 umhos/cm meets the Basin
Plan limitation o f source water plus 500 umhos/cm and the maximum EC of 1,000
umhos/cm for areas that may recharge good quality groundwater. The discharge
may cause groundwater degradation with EC when compared to background
groundwater quality, but the discharge will not cause degradation exceeding water
quality objectives.
Treatment and Control Practices
37. The Dischargers have implemented the following treatment and control of the
discharge:
a. Disinfected t ertiary wastewater treatment utilizing sequencing batch reactors for
BOD and nitrogen removal, filtration, and UV disinfection;
b. Application of treated wastewater at rates that will not exceed reasonable rates in
the areas where effluent will be recycled;
c. Discharge of sludge to the sewer collection system for treatment at the Regional Facility,
d. Certified operators to ensure proper operation and maintenance; and
e. Prohibited use of water softeners within the Copper River Ranch development.



WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -9-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Antidegradation Conclusions
38. This Order establishes groundwater limitations that allow some degradation, but will
not unreasonably threaten present and future anticipated beneficial uses of
groundwater or result in groundwater quality that exceeds water quality objectives set forth in the Basin Plan.

39. The treatment and control measures described above in Finding 37, in combination
with the requirements of this Order, represent BPTC. Adoption of this Order will result in the implementation of BPTC.

40. Degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents associated with
discharges from a municipal wastewater utility, after effective source control,
treatment, and control measures are implemented, is consistent with the maximum
benefit to the people of the s tate. The technology, energy, water recycling, and waste
management advant ages of municipal utility service far exceed any benefits derived
from reliance on numerous, concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less. The economic prosperity of valley
communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people of the State, and provides sufficient justification for allowing the limited groundwater degradation that may occur pursuant to this Order .

41. The discharge and the potential for groundwater degradation allowed in this Order is
consistent with the Antidegradation Policy since: (a) the limited degradation allowed by this Order will not result in water quality less than water quality objectives, or
unreasonably affect present and anticipated beneficial uses of groundwater, (b) the Dischargers have implemented BPTC to minimize degradation, and (c) the limited degradation is of the maximum benefit to the people of the State.
Water Recycling Regulatory Considerations
42. Undisinfected domestic wastewater contains human pathogens that are typically
measured using total or fecal coliform organism as indicator organisms. Title 22,
California Code of Regulations, section 60301 et seq., establishes statewide cri teria
for the use of recycled water .

43. On 3 February 2009, the State Water Resources Control Board adopted Resolution
2009- 0011, Adoption of a Policy for Water Quality Control for Recycled Water
(Recycled Water Policy). The Recycled Water Policy promotes the use of recycled water to achieve sustainable local water supplies and reduce greenhouse gases.
 44. On 23 April 2009, the Central Valley Water Board adopted Resolution R5- 2009- 0028,
In Support of Regionalization, Reclamation, Recycling and Conservation for Wastewater Treatment Plant s. Resolution R5- 2009- 0028 encourages water recycling,
water conservation, and regionalization of wastewater treatment facilities. It requires the municipal wastewater treatment agencies to document:


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -10-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


a. Efforts to promote new or expanded wastewater recycling opportunities and
programs;
b. Water conservation measures; and
c. Regional wastewater management opportunities and solutions (e.g., regionalization).

The distribution of disinfected tertiary recycled water by the Discharger s is consistent
with the intent of State Board Resolution 2009 -0011 and Central Valley Water Board
Resolution R5 -2009- 0028.
 45. Title 22, Section 60323, requires recyclers of treated municipal wastewater to submit
an engineering report detailing the use of recycled water, contingency plans, and
safeguards. The Dischargers submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report to DDW , which
was later revised based on DDW's comments. In a letter dated 20 January 2005,
DDW conditionally approved the engineering report. On 4 August 2014, the
Dischargers submitted an addendum to the Title 22 Engineering Report to reflect the
change from chlorine to UV disinfection. The DDW approved the addendum to the
Title 22 Engineering Report in a letter dated 3 October 2014.

Title 27
46. Title 27 of t he California Code of Regulations (hereafter Title 27) contains regulatory
requirements for the treatment, storage, processing, and disposal of solid waste.
However, Title 27 exempts certain activities from its provisions. Title 27, section 20090 state s in part :

The following activities shall be exempt from the SWRCB -promulgated provisions of
this subdivision, so long as the activity meets, and continues to meet, all
preconditions listed:

* * *

(b) Wastewater - Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leachfields if the following
conditions are met:

(1) the applicable RWQCB has issued WDRs, reclamation requirements, or
waived such issuance;
 (2) the discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan;
and

(3) the wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11,
Division 4.5, Title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste.

* * *


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2014- 0162 -11-
CITY OF FRESNO, CONSOLIDATED LAND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, INC.
NORTH FRESNO WASTEWATER RECLAMA TION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


47. The discharge authorized herein and the treatment and storage facilities associated
with the discharge, are exempt from the requirements of Title 27 as follows:
The lined storage pond and the golf course are exempt pursuant to Title 27, section
20090(b) because:
a. The Central Valley Water Board is issuing WDRs.
b. The discharge is in compliance with the Basin Plan, and;
c. The treated effluent discharged to the ponds does not need to be managed as
hazardous waste.

California Environmental Quality Act
48. A Mitigated Negative Declaration (EA No. C -03-193) was prepared by the City of
Fresno in 2004 for the construct ion and operation of the WWRF. The action to adopt
waste discharge requirements for this existing facility is exempt from the provisions of
the California Environmental Quality (CEQA), in accordance with the California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301.

Other Regulatory Considerations
49. In compliance with Water Code section 106.3, it is the policy of the State of California that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and accessible water adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitary purposes. This order promotes that policy by requiring discharges to meet maximum contaminant levels designed to protect human health and ensure that water is safe for domestic use.

50. Based on the threat and complexity of the discharge, the facility is deter mined to be
classified as 2B as defined below:
a. Category 2 threat to water quality: “Those discharges of waste that could impair the designated beneficial uses of the