wast ewater treatment and
disposal process is summarized below:
a. Raw wastewater is pumped from the collection system to the headworks where it is
screened and degritted. Screened wastewater travels thr ough the WWTP by gravity
flow until being pumped for filtration prior to UV disinfection. Filtered wastewater then
travels through the remaining portions of the treatment system by gravity flow.
b. Screened wastewater is aer obically treated in the West Aeration Basin and East
Aeration Basin, which are mechanically aer ated and operated in parallel. The aeration
supply of the basins is designed to prov ide aerobic and anoxic zones to achieve
nitrification and denitrification.
c. Effluent from the aeration ponds is conv eyed to the newly constructed 120-foot
diameter secondary clarifier. The existing 90-foot secon dary clarifier can be operated
in parallel or serve as a backup when t he 120-foot clarifier is being serviced.
d. Effluent from the secondary clarifier is pumped through cloth media filters prior to UV
disinfection. The filter system has a maximum throughput capacity of 11.6 MGD,
which is greater than the design peak flow of 10 MGD. Influent and effluent turbidity is
measured continuously using a turbidimeter.
e. The pumps used for filtrati on are housed in a low-lift pump station. Currently, three
pumps (two duty, one standby) are install ed each with a capacity of 5 MGD and a
fourth pump can be added in the future.
f. Effluent from the cloth media filters is grav ity fed to the UV disinf ection system, which is
designed for a minimum UV dose of 100 mi llijoules per square centimeter (mJ/cm
2).
g. Disinfected effluent is discharged to eleven rapid infiltration ponds (Ponds 1, 2, 4, 5,
and 8 through 14). Use of the ponds is alter nated so that each pond is allowed to dry
before being used again. The Discharger states that rapid infiltration Ponds 3, 6, and 7 are no longer used due to their close proximity to the Stanislaus River.
h. Wasted sludge is pumped to the mechanica l dewatering system. The sludge drying
beds may be used in the summer for additional drying or for backup dewatering.
Dewatered sludge is disposed by hauling to a local landfill.
22. The Discharger submitted a revised wa ter balance in the RWD addendum. The water
balance was prepared based on r easonable estimates of influent flows, inflow and
infiltration (I/I), precipitati on, percolation, and evaporation. The water balance was used to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0063 5
CITY OF OAKDALE
OAKDALE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
STANISLAUS COUNTY


model disposal capacity during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event followed by a
year with average precipitation. The model shows that the WWTF provides the following
capacities:
Influent Flow Measurement Capacity
Total Annual Flow 935 MG
Average Dry Weather Flow 2.45 MGD
Maximum Monthly Average Flow 2.7 MGD
23. The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

