wastewater treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the .flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations
(Standard Provision C.4).
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY -8-
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan,
and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and
a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years.
Source Water reporting, including the results of EC monitoring specified on page 4, and
supporting calculations.
Solids/Sludge monitoring
1. Annual production totals in dry tons or cubic yards.
2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the
disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage
disposed of by each method.
a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order
number of WDRs that regulate it.
b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration
occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of
ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).
d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
Reclamation Area
1. The type of crop(s) grown in the Reclamation Area, planting and harvest dates, and the
quantified nitrogen and fixed dissolved solids uptakes (as estimated by technical
references or, preferably, determined by representative plant tissue analysis).
2. The monthly and annual discharge volumes during the reporting year expressed as
million gallons and inches.
3. A monthly balance for the reporting year that includes:
a. Monthly average ETa (observed evapotranspiration) -Information sources include
California Irrigation Management Information System (CIMIS)
http://www.cimis.water.ca.gov/
b. Monthly crop uptake
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-00BB
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
i. Crop water utilization rates are available from a variety of publications
available from the local University of California Davis extension office.
ii. Irrigation efficiency -Frequently, engineers include a factor for irrigation
efficiency such that the application rate is slightly greater than the crop
utilization rate. A conservative design does not include this value.
c. Monthly average precipitation -this data is available at
http://www.cimis.water.ca.gov/ or at
http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/climate/online/ccd/nrmlprcp.html.
d. Monthly average and annual average discharge flow rate.
e. Monthly estimates of the amount of wastewater percolating below the root zone
(i.e., amount of wastewater applied in excess of crop requirements)
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
Ordered by:
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer ~ 10(1,ooq
(Date)
DMS/DKP: 6/09/2009 -9-
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND '-10-
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
BODs
CBOD
DO
EC
FDS
NTU
TKN
TDS TSS
Continuous
24-Hour Composite
Daily
Twice Weekly
Weekly
Twice Monthly
Monthly Bimonthly
Quarterly
Semiannually
Annually
mg/L
ml/L
µg/L µmhos/cm
mgd
MPN/100
ml
General Minerals GLOSSARY
Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
Carbonaceous BOD
Dissolved oxygen
Electrical conductivity at 25' C
Fixed dissolved solids
Nephelometric turbidity unit
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
Total dissolved solids
Total suspended solids
The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
Samples shall be a flow-proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots.
Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non-consecutive days.
Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non-consecutive
weeks.
Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per
year) during non-consecutive months.
Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April,
July, and October.
Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per
year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in
April and October.
Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
Milligrams per liter
milliliters [of solids] per liter
Micrograms per liter
Micromhos per centimeter
Million gallons per day
Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium
General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
Table 1. Priority Pollutant Scan
lnorganics1 Organics
Antimony Acrolein
Arsenic Acrylonitrile
Beryllium Benzene
Cadmium Bromoform
Chromium (Ill) Carbon tetrachloride
Chromium (VI) Chlorobenzene
Copper Chlorodibromomethane
Lead Chloroethane
Mercury 2-Chloroethylvinyl Ether
Nickel Chloroform
Selenium Dichlorobromomethane
Silver 1, 1-Dichloroethane
Thallium 1,2-Dichloroethane
Zinc 1, 1-Dichloroethylene
Cyanide 1,2-Dichloropropane
Asbestos 1,3-Dichloropropylene
Ethylbenzene
Dioxin Congeners Methyl Bromide
2,3,7,8-TCDD Methyl Chloride
1,2,3,7,8-PentaCDD Methylene Chloride
1,2,3,4,7,8-HexaCDD 1, 1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
1,2,3,6,7,B-HexaCDD Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)
1,2,3,7,8,9-HexaCDD Toluene
1,2,3,4,6, 7,8-HeptaCDD 1,2-Trans-Dichloroethylene
OctaCDD 1, 1, 1-Trichloroethane
2,3,7,B-TetraCDF 1, 1,2-Trichloroethane
1,2,3,7,8-PentaCDF Trichloroethylene (TCE)
2,3,4, 7,8-PentaCDF Vinyl chloride
1,2,3,4,7,B-HexaCDF 2-Chlorophenol
1,2,3,6, 7,8-HexaCDF 2,4-Dichlorophenol
1,2,3,7,8,9-HexaCDF 2,4-Dimethylphenol
2,3,4,6,7,B-HexaCDF 2-Methyl-4,6-Dinitrophenol
1,2,3,4,6, 7,8-HeptaCDF 2,4-Dinitrophenol
1,2,3,4, 7,8,9-HeptaCDF 2-Nitrophenol
OctaCDF 4-Nitrophenol -11-
3-Methyl-4-Chlorophenol Hexachlorobenzene
Pentachlorophenol Hexachlorobutadiene
Phenol Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol Hexachloroethane
Acenaphthene lndeno(1,2,3-c,d)pyrene
Acenaphthylene lsophorone
Anthracene Naphthalene
Benzidine Nitrobenzene
Benzo(a)Anthracene N-Nitrosodimethylamine
Benzo(a)pyrene N-Nitrosodi-n-Propylamine
Benzo(b)fluoranthene N-Nitrosodiphenylamine
Benzo(g ,h,i)perylene Phenanthrene
Benzo(k)fluoranthene Pyrene
Bis(2-chloroethoxy) methane 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
Bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether Pesticides
Bis(2-Ethylhexyl)phthalate Aldrin
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether alpha-BHC
Butylbenzyl Phthalate beta-BHC
2-Chloronaphthalene gamma-BHC (Lindane)
4-Chlorophenyl Phenyl Ether delta-BHC
Chrysene Chlordane
Dibenzo(a, h)Anthracene 4,4'-DDT
1,2-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDE
1,3-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDD
1,4-Dichlorobenzene Dieldrin
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine alpha-Endosulfan
Diethyl phthalate beta-Endosulfan
Dimethyl phthalate Endosulfan Sulfate
Di-n-Butyl Phthalate Endrin
2,4-Dinitrotoluene Endrin Aldehyde
2,6-Dinitrotoluene Heptachlor
Di-n-Octyl Phthalate Heptachlor epoxide
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine Polychlorinated biphenyls
Fluoranthene Toxaphene
Fluorene
With the exception of wastewater samples, samples placed in an acid-preserved bottle for metals analysis must first be
filtered. If filtering in the field is not feasible, samples shall be collected In unpreserved containers and submitted to the
laboratory within 24 hours with a request (on the chain of custody form) lo immediately filter then preserve the sample.
2 Samples to be analyzed for volatile compounds and phthalate esters shall be grab samples; the remainder shall be 24-hour
composite samp'les.
Map Source:
NAIPAerial Photograph (2005)
e
SCALE OF Ml LES
0 0.25 0,5 SITE MAP
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0088
FOR
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1
AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY ATTACHMENT A
Influent Headworks
Supernatant
NOT TO SCALE Primary
Clarifier
Sludge
Primary
Digester Slud e Trickling
Filter
Secondary
Clarifier Effluent
To Storage Ponds/
Farmland
Sludge Drying Beds
Mechanical Dewatering
{Future)
PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0088
FOR
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1
AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY ATIACHMENTB
NONPOTABLE WATER INTERNATIONAL SYMBOL
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. RS-2009-0088
FOR
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1
AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY ATTACHMENT C
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT D
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
Prior to installation of groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit a work plan
containing, at a minimum, the information listed in Section 1, below. Wells may be installed
after staff approve the work plan. Upon installation, the Discharger shall submit a well
installation report that includes the information contained in Section 2, below. All work plans
and reports must be prepared under the direction of, and certified by, a California registered
geologist or civil engineer.
SECTION 1 -Monitoring Well Installation Work Plan and
Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan
The monitoring well installation work plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
A. General Information:
Purpose of the well installation project
Brief description of local geologic and hydrogeologic conditions
Proposed monitoring well locations and rationale for well locations
Topographic map showing facility location, roads, and surface water bodies
Large-scaled site map showing all existing on-site wells, proposed wells, surface water
bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities, utilities, and
major physical and man-made features
B. Drilling Details:
On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities
Description of drilling equipment and techniques
Equipment decontamination procedures
Cuttings disposal methods
Soil sampling intervals (if appropriate); logging methods; number and location of soil
samples and rationale; and sample collection, preservation, and analytical
methods
C. Monitoring Well Design (in graphic form with rationale provided in narrative form):
Diagram of proposed well construction details
-Borehole diameter
-Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
-Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws)
-Anticipated depth of well, length of well casing, and length and position of
perforated interval
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER N0.2009-0088
ATTACHMENT D -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand
pack
-Anticipated screen slot size and filter pack
D. Well Development (not to be performed until at least 48 hours after sanitary seal
placement):
Method of development to be used (i.e., surge, bail, pump, etc.)
Parameters to be monitored during development and record keeping technique
Method of determining when development is complete
Disposal of development water
E. Well Survey (precision of vertical survey data shall be at least 0.01 foot):
Identify the Licensed Land Surveyor or Civil Engineer that will perform the survey
Datum for survey measurements
List well features to be surveyed (i.e., top of casing, horizontal and vertical
coordinates, etc.)
F. Schedule for Completion of Work
G. Appendix: Groundwater Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP) -2 -
The Groundwater SAP, a guidance document that is referred to by individuals
responsible for conducting groundwater monitoring and sampling activities, shall
contain, at a minimum, a detailed written description of standard operating procedures
for:
• Equipment to be used during sampling
• Equipment decontamination procedures
• Water level measurement procedures
• Well purging (include a discussion of procedures to follow if three casing
volumes cannot be purged)
• Monitoring and record keeping during water level measurement and well
purging (include copies of record keeping logs to be used)
• Purge water disposal
• Analytical methods and required reporting limits
• Sample containers and preservatives
• Sampling
-General sampling techniques
-Record keeping during sampling (include copies of record keeping logs
to be used)
-QA/QC samples
• Chain of Custody
• Sample handling and transport
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER N0.2009-0088
ATIACHMENT D-STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
SECTION 2 -Monitoring Well Installation Report
The monitoring well installation report must provide the information listed below. In addition,
the report must also clearly identify, describe, and justify any deviations from the approved
work plan.
A. General Information:
Purpose of the well installation project
Number of monitoring wells installed and identifying label(s) for each
Brief description of geologic and hydrogeologic conditions encountered during well
installation
Topographic map showing facility location, roads, surface water bodies
Large-scaled site map showing all previously existing wells, newly installed wells,
surface water bodies and drainage courses, buildings, waste handling facilities,
utilities, and other major physical and man-made features.
B. Drilling Details (in narrative and/or graphic form):
On-site supervision of drilling and well installation activities
Drilling contractor and driller's name
Description of drilling equipment and techniques
Equipment decontamination procedures
Well boring log (provide for each well)
Well boring number and date drilled
Borehole diameter and total depth
Total depth of open hole (i.e., total depth drilled if no caving or back-grouting
occurs)
Depth to first encountered groundwater and stabilized groundwater depth
Detailed description of soils encountered, using the Unified Soil Classification
System
C. Well Construction Details (provide for each well):
Well construction diagram including:
Monitoring well number and date constructed
Casing and screen material, diameter, and centralizer spacing (if needed)
Length of well casing
Length and position of slotted casing and size of perforations
Thickness, position and composition of surface seal, sanitary seal, and sand
pack
Type of well caps (bottom cap either screw on or secured with stainless steel
screws) -3-
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER N0.2009-0088
ATTACHMENT D -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION WORK PLANS AND
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION REPORTS
E. Well Development (provide for each well):
Date(s) and method of development
How well development completion was determined
Volume of water purged from well and method of development water disposal
F. Well Survey (provide for each well): -4-
Reference elevation at the top rim of the well casing with the cap removed (feet above
. mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
G. Ground surface elevation (feet above mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
Horizontal geodetic location, where the point of beginning shall be described by the
California State Plane Coordinate System, 1983 datum, or acceptable alternative
(provide rationale)
Present the well survey report data in a table
Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling
How well was purged
How many well volumes purged
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization
Sample collection, handling, and preservation
methods Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Water level elevation(s)
Groundwater contour map
H. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Date(s) of sampling
Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets
Present soil sampling data in a table
I. Well Completion Report(s) (as defined in California Water Code §13751 ). Blank forms
are available from California Department of Water Resources' website
www.water.ca.gov. Submit this section under separate cover.
J. Appendix -include, at a minimum, copies of the following:
County-issued well construction permits
Registered engineer or licensed surveyor's report and field notes
Field notes from well development
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
A. Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF)
1. Describe treatment processes at the wastewater treatment facility.
2. List significant industrial users (SI Us) that discharge to the wastewater treatment
facility and describe how SIUs affect sludge production, sludge handling, and
biosolids disposal.
3. Indicate whether the WWTF has an adopted source control ordinance or a
pretreatment program, and if the latter whether the program is approved by the
Board.
4. Indicate whether WWTF accepts septage and, if so, describe septage handling
operation facilities.
5. Provide a WWTF site map showing:
a. existing sludge handling facilities (e.g., sludge drying beds and sludge storage
areas)
b. abandoned sludge handling facilities (if applicable)
c. location of groundwater monitoring wells, if any, and groundwater gradient.
B. Sludge Production
1. Provide a schematic diagram showing solids flow and sludge handling operations;
include, where applicable, supernatant flow and handling operations.
2. Specify the quantity of sludge expected to annually accumulate in each wastewater
treatment process, how it is quantified, and the expected removal frequency.
3. For sludge handling facilities with sludge drying beds:
a. Describe number and size of sludge drying beds.
b. Describe sludge drying bed construction (e.g., liner, leachate collection
system).
c. If sludge drying beds are not lined, thoroughly describe measures taken to
ensure that area groundwater is not adversely affected by sludge drying
operations.
d. Indicate the expected frequency with which sludge will be applied to and
removed from sludge drying beds.
4. Describe how biosolids are transferred to onsite biosolids storage facility (if
applicable). If biosolids are removed directly from sludge drying beds, provide a
plan that indicates when during the year you expect to dispose of biosolids and
explain that whoever is responsible for disposing of your biosolids will be able to
remove and dispose it at this time.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
C. Biosolids Characterization -2-
1. Describe proposed sampling procedures by indicating number of samples, sample
locations, and sample composition. For reference consult POTW Sludge Sampling
an Analysis Guidance Document, published by the EPA Publication No. 833-B-89-
100.
2. Describe the methods proposed to meet the necessary levels of pathogen
reduction
(i.e., Class A or B according to 40 CFR 503.32) for the proposed method of sludge
disposal.
3. Describe the methods proposed to meet vector reduction requirements, in
accordance with
40 CFR Part 503.33.
D. Biosolids Storage
1. If on-site biosolids storage is used,
a. Describe:
i. Size of biosolids storage area
ii. How frequently it will be used (emergency basis only or routine use)
iii. Typical storage duration
iv. Leachate controls
v. Erosion controls
vi. Run-on/runoff controls
b. Indicate measures that will be taken to ensure that area groundwater is not
adversely affected by the biosolids storage facility.
c. For biosolids storage facilities that contain biosolids between 1 October and 30
April, describe how facilities are designed and maintained to prevent washout
or inundation from a storm or flood with a return frequency of 100 years.
d. Provide a map of showing setback distances from (where applicable)
i. Property lines
ii. Domestic water supply wells
iii. Non-Domestic water supply wells
iv. Public roads and occupied onsite residences
v. Surface waters, including wetlands, creeks, ponds, lakes, underground
aqueducts, and marshes
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT E
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
vi. Primary agricultural drainage ways
vii. Occupied non-agricultural buildings and off-site residences
viii. Primary tributary to a waterway or reservoir used for domestic water supply
ix. Domestic surface water supply intake
E. Spill Response Plan
1. Emergency contacts and notification procedures
2. Personal protective equipment requirements
3. Response instructions for
a. spill during biosolids transport
b. storage facility failure
c. when hazardous or other unauthorized material is found
F. Method of Disposal
1. Describe and provide the following information related to biosolids disposal
method(s). If more than one method will be utilized, include the percentage of
annual biosolids production expected to be disposed of by each method.
a. Landfill Disposal
i. Name(s) and location(s) of landfill(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the landfill(s).
iii. Present classification of the landfill(s).
iv. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the landfill(s).
b. Incineration
i. Name(s) and location(s) of incineration site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the incineration site(s).
iii. Method of disposal of ash from the incineration site(s).
iv. Names.and locations of facilities receiving ash from the incineration site(s),
if applicable.
v. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the incineration
site(s). .3.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER ND. 2009-0088
ATIACHMENTE
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
c. Composting
i. Name(s) and location(s) of composting site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the composting site(s).
iii. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the composting
site(s).
d. Land Application
i. Ownership of the site(s) where biosolids are applied.
ii. Assessor Parcel Numbers (APNs) of site(s) where biosolids are applied.
iii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the biosolids application site(s). -4-
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT F
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS
FOR
WASTEWATER TREATEMENT FACILITIES
The purpose of the Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) is to budget and manage nutrients
applied to land application area(s) considering all sources of nutrients, crop requirements, soil
types, climate, and local conditions in order to prevent adverse impacts to surface water and
groundwaterquality. The NMP must take site-specific conditions into consideration in
identifying steps that will minimize nutrient movement through surface runoff or leaching past
the root zone.
The NMP must contain, at a minimum, all the elements listed below under Contents of a
Nutrient Management Plan and must be updated in response to changing conditions,
monitoring results, and other factors.
A specialist who is certified in developing nutrient management plans shall develop the NMP.
A certified specialist is a Professional Soil Scientist, Professional Agronomist, or Crop Advisor
certified by the American Society of Agronomy or a Technical Service Provider certified in
nutrient management in California by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).
The Executive Officer may approve alternative proposed specialists. Only NMPs prepared
and signed by these parties will be considered certified.
The Monitoring and Reporting Program specifies minimum amounts of monitoring that must
be conducted at the wastewater treatment facility (WWTF). As indicated below, this
information must be used to make management decisions related to nutrient management.
Likewise, the timing and amounts of wastewater applications to crops must be known to
correctly calculate the amount of storage needed.
Waste and land application areas shall be managed to prevent contamination of crops grown
for human consumption. The term "crops grown for human consumption" refers only to crops
that will not undergo subsequent processing which adequately removes potential microbial
danger to consumers.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATTACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
Contents of a Nutrient Management Plan -2-
The NMP shall identify the name, address of owner and operator and shall.contain all of the
following elements to demonstrate that the Discharger can control nutrient losses that may
impact surface water or groundwater quality and comply with the requirements of the Order.
1. Land Application Area Information
a. Identify each land application area (whether it is owned, rented, or leased, to which
wastewater and/or solids/sludge may be applied) on a single published base map
(topographic map or aerial photo) at an appropriate scale which includes:
1) A field identification system (Assessor's Parcel Number; land application area
by name or number; total acreage of each land application area; crops grown;
owner; indication of what types of waste are applied (wastewater only,
solids/sludge only, or both wastewater and solids/sludge); drainage flow
direction in each field, nearby surface waters, and storm water discharge points;
tailwater and storm water drainage controls; subsurface (tile) drainage systems
(including discharge points and lateral extent); irrigation supply wells and
groundwater monitoring wells; sampling locations for discharges of storm water
and tailwater to surface water from the field; and
2) Wastewater conveyance structures, discharge points and discharge mixing
points with irrigation water supplies; pumping facilities; flow meter locations;
drainage ditches and canals, culverts, drainage controls (berms, levees, etc.),
and drainage easements.
b. Provide the following information for each land application area identified in 1.a
above:
1) Field's common name (name used when keeping records of waste
applications).
2) Assessor's Parcel Number.
3) Total acreage.
4) Crops grown and crop rotation.
5) Information on who owns and leases the field.
6) Proposed sampling locations for discharges of storm water and tailwater to
surface water.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATIACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES -3-
c. Provide copies of written agreements with third parties that receive wastewater
from the Discharger's WWTF.
1) The Discharger shall have a written agreement with each third party that
receives process wastewater from the Discharger. Each written agreement
shall be included in the Discharger's Nutrient Management Plan. The written
agreement shall identify:
i. The Discharger and WWTF from which the wastewater originates;
ii. The third party that will receive wastewater;
iii. The Assessor's Parcel Number(s) and the acreage(s) of the cropland
where the wastewater will be applied; and
iv. The types of crops to be irrigated with the wastewater.
v. The length of time the agreement will be in effect.
2. Available Nutrients
a. All sources of nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium) available for each
crop in each land application area shall be identified prior to land applications.
Potential nutrient sources include, but are not limited to, wastewater, solids/sludge,
manure, irrigation water, commercial fertilizers, soil, and previous crops.
b. Nutrient values of soil, wastewater, solids/sludge, manure, and irrigation water shall
be determined based on laboratory analysis. "Book values" may be used for
planning of waste applications during the first two years during initial development
of the NMP if necessary. Acceptable book values are those values recognized by
American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE), the NRCS,
and/or the University of California that accurately estimate the nutrient content of
the material. The nutrient content of commercial fertilizers shall be derived from
California Department of Food and Agriculture published values.
c. Nutrient credit from previous legume crops shall be determined by methods
acceptable to the University of California Cooperative Extension, the NRCS, or a
specialist certified in developing nutrient management plans.
3. Nutrient Budget
The NMP shall include a nutrient budget for each land application area. The nutrient
budget shall establish planned rates of nutrient applications. The Nutrient Budget shall
include the following:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATIACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
a. Nutrient Application Rates -4-
1) The rate of application of wastewater and solids/sludge for each crop in each
land application area (also considering sources of nutrients other than
wastewater or solids/sludge) to meet each crop's needs without exceeding
application rates specified.
2) Planned rates of nutrient application shall be determined based on soil test
results, crop tissue test results, nutrient credits, wastewater, solids/sludge, and
manure analysis, crop requirements and growth stage, seasonal and climatic
conditions, and use and timing of irrigation water.
3) Each crop's nutrient requirements for nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium
shall be determined based on recommendations from the University of
California, the Western Fertilizer Handbook (9th Edition), or from historic crop
nutrient removal.
4) Nutrient application rates shall not attempt to approach a site's maximum ability
to contain one or more nutrients through soil adsorption. Excess applications or
applications that cause soil imbalances are to be avoided.
5) Total nitrogen applications to a land application area prior to and during the
growing of a crop will be based on pre-plant or pre-side dress soil analysis to
establish residual nitrogen remaining in the field from the previous crop to
establish early season nitrogen applications. Pre-plant or side dress nitrogen
applications will not exceed the estimated total crop use as established by the
nutrient management plan. Except as allowed below, application rates shall not
result in total nitrogen applied to the land application areas exceeding 1.4 times
the nitrogen that will be removed from the field in the harvested portion of the
crop. Additional applications of nitrogen are allowable if the following
conditions are met:
i. Plant tissue testing has been conducted and it indicates that additional
nitrogen is required to obtain a crop yield typical for the soils and other
local conditions;
ii. The amount of additional nitrogen applied is based on the plant tissue
testing and is consistent with University of California Cooperative
Extension written guidelines or written recommendations from a
professional agronomist;
iii. The form, timing, and method of application facilitates timely nitrogen
availability to the crop; and
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATTACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES -5-
iv. Records are maintained documenting the need for additional applications.
6) Phosphorus and potassium may be applied in excess of crop uptake rates. If,
however, monitoring indicates that levels of these elements are causing
adverse impacts, corrective action must be taken. Cessation of applications
may be necessary until crop uptake and harvest have reduced the
concentration in the soil.
7) Plans for nutrient management shall specify the form, source, amount, timing,
and method of application of nutrients on each land application area to minimize
nitrogen and/or phosphorus movement to surface and/or ground waters to the
extent necessary to meet the provisions of the Order.
8) Where crop material is not removed from the land application area or the land
grazed, waste applications are not allowed. For example, if a pasture is not
grazed or mowed (and cuttings removed from the land application area), waste
shall not be applied to the pasture.
9) Wastewater and/or solids/sludge will be applied to the land application area for
use by the first crop covered by the NMP only to the extent that soil tests
indicate a need for nitrogen application.
1 O)Supplementary commercial fertilizer(s) and/or soil amendments may be added
when the application of nutrients contained in wastewater and/or solidsisludge
alone is not sufficient to meet the crop needs, as long as these applications do
not exceed provisions of the Order.
11)Nutrient applications to a crop shall not be made prior to the harvest of the
previous crop except where the reason for such applications is provided in the
NMP.
12) Water applications shall not exceed the amount needed for efficient crop
production.
13)Nutrients shall be applied in such a manner as not to degrade the soil's
structure, chemical properties, or biological condition.
Nutrients are being evaluated in several Central Valley surface waters. Where these
studies show that nutrients are adversely impacting beneficial uses, the Central Valley
Water Board will work with parties in the watershed, including WWTF, to reduce
discharges of phosphorus, nitrogen and possibly other constituents.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATTACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
b. Nutrient Application Timing -6-
1) Wastewater application scheduling should be based on the nutrient needs of
the crop, the daily water use of the crop, the water holding capacity of the soil,
and the lower limit of soil moisture for each crop and soil.
2) Wastewater shall not be applied when soils are saturated. During the rainy
season rainfall can exceed crop water demand; however, the application of
wastewater is allowable if tests show that there is an agronomic need and
current conditions indicate that threat of nitrate leaching is minimal.
3) The timing of nutrient application must correspond as closely as possible with
plant nutrient uptake characteristics, while considering cropping system
limitations, weather and climatic conditions, and land application area
accessibility.
4) Nutrient applications for spring-seeded crops shall be timed to avoid surface
runoff and leaching by winter rainfall.
c. Nutrient Application Method
1) The Discharger shall apply nutrient materials uniformly to application areas or
as prescribed by precision agricultural techniques.
2) Realistic yield goals for each crop in each land application area shall be
established. For new crops or varieties, industry yield recommendations may
be used until documented yield information is available.
3) If the NMP shows that the nutrients generated by the WWTF exceed the
amount needed for crop production in the land application area; the Discharger
must implement management practices (such as offsite removal of the excess
nutrients, treatment, or storage) that will prevent impacts to surface water or
groundwater quality due to excess nutrients.
4. Setbacks, Buffers, and Other Alternatives to Protect Surface Water
a. A setback is a specified distance from surface waters or potential conduits to
surface waters where wastewater and solids/sludge may not be land applied, but
where crops may continue to be grown.
b. A vegetated buffer is a narrow, permanent strip of dense perennial vegetation
where no crops are grown and which is established parallel to the contours of and
perpendicular to the dominant slope of the land application area for the purposes of
slowing water runoff, enhancing water infiltration, trapping pollutants bound to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATTACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
sediment, and minimizing the risk of any potential nutrients or pollutants from
leaving the land application area and reaching surface waters. -7-
c. The minimum widths of setbacks and vegetated buffers must be doubled around
the wellhead of a drinking water supply well constructed in a sole-source aquifer.
d. Practices and management activities for vegetated buffers include the following:
1) Removal of vegetation in vegetated buffers in accordance with site production
limitations, rate of plant growth, and the physiological needs of the plants.
2) Not mowing below the recommended height for the plant species.
3) Maintaining adequate ground cover and plant density to maintain or improve
filtering capacity of the vegetation.
4) Maintaining adequate ground cover, litter, and canopy to maintain or improve
infiltration and soil condition.
5) Periodic rest from mechanical harvesting, which may be needed to maintain or
restore the desired plant community following episodic events such as drought.
6) Implementing pest management to protect the desired plant communities.
When needs are a significant problem
7) Preventing channels from forming.
e. For each land application area that is within 100 feet of a surface water or a conduit
to surface water, identify the setback, vegetated buffer, or other alternative practice
that will be implemented to protect surface water.
5. Record-Keeping
The Discharger shall maintain records for each land application area identified in 1.a above
and as required in the Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R5-2009-0088.
6. Nutrient Management Plan Review
a. Identify the schedule for review and revisions to the NMP.
b. Identify the person who will conduct the NMP review and revisions.
c. Provide the name and contact information (including address and phone number)
of the person who created the NMP; the date that the NMP was drafted; the name,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088
ATTACHMENT F -STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES -8-
title, and contact information of the person who approved the final NMP; and the
date of NMP implementation.
d. The NMP shall be updated prior to any anticipated changes that would affect the
overall nutrient balance or the nutrient budget such as, but not limited to, a crop
rotation change, changes in the available cropland, or the changes in the volume of
wastewater generated.
e. The Discharger shall review the NMP at least once every five years and notify the
Central Valley Regional Board in the annual report of any proposed changes that
would affect the NMP.
INFORMATION SHEET
INFORMATION SHEET- ORDER NO. RS-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT N0.1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATEMENT PLANT AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
Background
North of River Sanitary District No. 1 owned and operated a Wastewater Treatment Facility
(WWTF) near Oildale. The WWTF was regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) Order No. 92-016 that authorized the discharge of 5.5 million gallons per day (mgd)
of undisinfected secondary treated wastewater to four unlined storage ponds and to 780
acres of Reclamation Area. Water Reclamation Requirements (WRRs) Order No. 92-019
regulated the discharge to 1,565 acres of Reclamation Area owned and operated by Sill
Properties Inc. In 1999, the District completed the construction of its new WWTF about three
and a half miles west of the City of Shafter, near its effluent storage ponds, and abandoned
its previous WWTF. The Discharger is currently operating the new WWTF under the WDRs
issued to the old WWTF.
The new WWTF consist of headworks with two mechanical bar screens, a lift station, a vortex
grit removal system, addition of coagulant (Ferric Chloride) and Polymer, a primary clarifier, a
plastic media trickling filter, a secondary clarifier, primary and secondary sludge digesters
operating in series, and fourteen unlined sludge drying beds. The effluent is used to irrigate
alfalfa, wheat, and corn that are used as fodder, fibber, and seed crops for nonhuman
consumption. When irrigation demand is low, effluent is sent to four storage ponds with a
total storage capacity of approximately 1,488 acre-feet.
The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge dated December 2008 where it
proposed an interim expansion from 5.5 mgd to 7.5 mgd. The Discharger intends to have an
ultimate capacity of 12 mgd in the near future.
For the interim expansion the District purchased 320 acres of Reclamation Area (Assessor's
Parcel No. 088-210-05) located in Section 36 of Township T28S, Range R24E, MDB&M.
The Discharger proposes to recycle wastewater on approximately 2,380 acres of farmland, of
which 1,740 acres are owned by Sill Properties Inc. The other 640 acres are owned by the
Sanitary District. Approximately 1,950 acres of land will be farmed, 1,080 acres will be used
to grow alfalfa, 490 acres to grow wheat, and 380 acres to grow corn.
Both WDRs Order No. 92-016 and WRRs Order No. 92-019 are being consolidated and
updated by this Order. The Order assigns the Sanitary District as the primary entity
responsible for the WWTF. Sill Properties Inc. is the primary entity, and the Sanitary District
the secondary entity, responsible for the application of recycled wastewater and compliance
the water recycling requirements of this Order.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Sludge is dried in twelve unlined sludge drying beds. Once the sludge is dry, it is applied as
a soil amendment of 80 acres owned by the Discharger. Approximately 570 tons of dry
sludge is applied to the 80 acres annually, with loading rates of 7.11 tons per acre per year.
INFORMATION SHEET -ORDER NO. R5-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO. 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
Because the unlined sludge drying beds are a potential source of groundwater degradation,
the Discharger is proposing to install mechanical dewatering facilities.
Groundwater Conditions -2-
The groundwater monitoring network consists of two wells (MW-1 and MW-2). Groundwater
Monitoring Well# 1 is located on the Southeast corner of the WWTF along Seventh Standard
Road. Well# 2 is located on the Northwest corner of the WWTF on the intersection of
Magnolia Avenue and Burbank Street. Both wells have a depth of 400 feet bgs and have
screened intervals of 20 ft, 80 ft, and 100 ft at three different zones.
Having multiple screened intervals within a monitoring well does not provide an adequate
representation of groundwater quality. However, based on the two monitoring wells
groundwater appears to be of marginal quality. The flow gradient and quality of first­
encountered groundwater near the WWTF cannot be determined with two monitoring wells, a
minimum of three wells are needed. The Discharger needs to install an adequate
groundwater monitoring network and conduct a groundwater investigation to determine the
quality of first-encountered groundwater, and at what depth it occurs.
Compliance History
The most recent Notice of Violation (NOV) was issued to the Sanitary District on 25 August
2008 for violating Standard Provisions C.5 and B.2, the Sanitary District did not have a
written sampling program and did not have a spill prevention and control plan, respectively.
In response to the NOV, the Sanitary District submitted a Wastewater Treatment Plant
Sampling Manual, and a Wastewater Treatment Plan Spill Prevention Response Plan in
October 2008.
In 2006, the average effluent EC was approximately 794 µmhos/cm: this exceeded the Basin
Plan limit of source water+ 500 µmhos/cm (252 µmhos/cm + 500 µmhos/cm = 752
µmhos/cm). These exceedances resulted in several violations documented in CIWQS. In
2007, source water EC was reported at 544 µmhos/cm, which increased the effluent EC limit
to 1,044 µmhos/cm. The average effluent EC for 2007 was approximately 855 µmhos/cm;
therefore, there were no exceedances that year. In 2008 source water EC was reported as
approximately 381 µmhos/cm, this would correspond to an effluent EC limit of 881 µmhos/cm.
The average effluent EC for 2008 had a concentration of 818 µmhos/cm; therefore, in 2008
the effluent EC did not exceed the effluent EC limit established by the Basin Plan.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The Basin Plan indicates the greatest long-term water quality problem facing the entire Tulare
Lake Basin is increasing salinity in groundwater, a process accelerated by man's activities
and particularly affected by intensive irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan recognizes that
degradation is unavoidable until there is a long-term solution to the salt imbalance. The
Central Valley Water Board encourages proactive management of waste stream by
dischargers to control addition of salt through use, and has established an incremental EC
INFORMATION SHEET- ORDER ND, R5-2009-0088
NORTH OF RIVER SANITARY DISTRICT NO, 1 AND
SILLS PROPERTIES, INC.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY AND
WATER RECLAMATION
KERN COUNTY
limitation of 500 µmhos/cm or a 1,000 µmhos/cm, as the measure of the maximum
permissible addition of salt constituents through use. -3-
The Basin Plan states that discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwaters
shall not exceed an EC of 1,000 µmhos/cm, a chlorine content of 175 mg/L, or boron content
of 1.0 mg/L.
Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, "Statement of
Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality Water In California," or "Antidegradation
Policy" require that waters of the State that are better in quality than established water quality
objectives be maintained "consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State."
Water can be of high quality for some constituents or beneficial uses and not others. Policy
and procedures for complying with directives are set forth in the Basin Plan. Degradation of
groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents released with discharge from a
municipal wastewater utility after effective source control, treatment, and control is consistent
with maximum benefit to the people of the State. The technology, energy, water recycling,
and waste management advantages of municipal utility service far exceed any benefits
derived from a community otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater
systems, and the impact on water quality will be substantially less. Economic prosperity of
valley communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people of the State,
provided terms of the Basin Plan are met.
Constituents of concern in the discharge that have the potential to degrade groundwater
include salts and nutrients. However, the discharge will likely not impair the beneficial uses
of groundwater because:
a. For nitrogen, shallow groundwater already contains nitrate concentrations in excess of
water quality objectives as a result of previous discharges and agricultural practices in the
area. This Order includes a time schedule to meet an effluent nitrogen limit of 1 O mg/L
and/or demonstrate management practices to preclude any further degradation for
nitrates.
b. For Salinity, the Basin Plan contains

===PLANNED CHANGES===

