FACILIT IES DESCRIPTION
The City of Turlock provides sewerage service for the City of Turlock and the community
service districts of Denair and Keyes, and receives up to 2 MGD of primary treated
effluent from the City of Ceres. The Facility serves a population of approximately 91,000.
The de sign daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 20 million gallons per day (MGD).
The City of Modesto provides sewerage service for a population of approximately
272,000 for the City of Modesto, the community of Empire, and a portion of the City of
Ceres. The Facility consists of separate primary and tertiary treatment facilities. The
Facility consists of two different treatment facilities; a primary treatment facility and a
secondary/tertiary treatment facility located approximately 6.5 miles to the s outhwest of
the primary treatment facility .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. NVRRWP Facilities. The purpose of the NVRRWP project is to address water
supply shortages within the DPWD service area on the west side of the San
Joaquin River in San Joaquin, Stanislaus and Merced Counties, south of the
Sacramento -San Joaquin River Delta, and south of Delta (SOD ) Central Valley
Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) -designated Refuges. The NVRRWP facilities
consist of a pipeline from the City of Turlock RWQCF conveying recycled water
to the City of Modesto WQCF, and transmission facilities , and all necessary
transmission pipelines to discharge combined treated municipal wastewater from
the City of Turlock RWQCF and the City of Modesto WQCF to a combined outfall
to the Delta -Mendota Canal . See section II.E of this Fact Sheet for additional
information.
2. City of Turlock RWQCF . The treatment system at the City of Turlock RWQCF
consists of screening, grit removal, primary flotatio n, secondary treatment
(activated sludge) for biochemical oxygen demand reduction and
City of Turlock Regional Water Quality Control Facility ORDER R5-2022-0034
City of Modesto Water Quality Control Facility NPDES CA0085316

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 nitrification/denitrification, secondary clarification, high-rate clarification with
chemical addition, tertiary treatment via cloth disk filters, chlorine disinfection a nd
sodium bisulfite dechlorination. The City of Turlock RWQCF also include s a 37.2
million -gallon clay-lined emergency storage basin, which allows for the diversion
and storage of primary effluent if necessary.
Solids handling consists of gravity belt thi ckener, anaerobic digestion, sludge
drying beds and beneficial reuse of biosolids via land application to farmland.
The City of Turlock currently provides up to 2 MGD of recycled water for cooling
purposes to the Walnut Energy Center, a 250-megawatt power plant owned and
operated by the Turlock Irrigation District (TID) . The City of Turlock also provides
an average of 100,000 gallons per day for irrigation purposes at the Pedretti
Sports Complex. Order R5-2021 -0005 regulates the use of recycled water.
3. City of Modesto WQCF . The treatment system at the City of Modesto WQCF
consists of two separate primary and secondary treatment facilities. The primary
treatment plant consists of screening, grit removal, and primary clarification.
Sludge from the clarifie rs is transferred to thickeners, then processed and
stabilized through anaerobic digesters. Digested sludge is transferred to holding
tanks where it is periodically drawn to unlined drying beds, with supernatant flows
routed to the septage disposal station for blending with influent wastewater. The
City of Modesto applies the stabilized sludge as a soil amendment on their 2,526 -
acre ranch, which is regulated by separate WDR Order 94 -030.
After clarification, primary effluent is directed to the Jennings Roa d
secondary/tertiary treatment facility where the wastewater receives secondary
treatment for irrigation of pastureland (regulated by Order 9 9-112) or receives
tertiary filtration and ultraviolet light disinfection for discharge to the San Joaquin
River (regulated by Order R5 -2017 -0064) or discharge to the Delta -Mendota
Canal regulated by this Order . For the secondary treatment system,
approximately half of the primary effluent receives treatment with fixed film
reactors and then is combined with primary ef fluent in an aerated recirculation
channel. Flow in the recirculation channel is then distributed to three parallel
facultative ponds for further treatment, and then transferred to one of two storage
ponds before being applied to the City of Modesto ’s 2,52 6-acre ranch at
agronomic rates.
The City of Modesto WQCF’s tertiary treatment facility consists of two parallel
two-step membrane bioreactor (MBR) facilities. The Phase 1A facility consists of
an oxidation ditch that provides activated sludge biological treatment, reducing
biochemical oxygen demand and providing nitrogen removal (i.e.,
nitrification/denitrification). The oxidation ditch is followed by membrane filtration
and ultraviolet light (UV) radiation that disinfects the filtered wastewater prior to
storage or discharge. Phase 1A construction of the tertiary treatment facilities
(2.3 MGD) was completed on 1 July 2010. The Phase 2 facility consists of
aeration basins for activated sludge biological treatment followed by membrane
filtration and UV disi nfection. The Phase 2 facility provides a tertiary treatment
capacity of 12.6 MGD, and was completed in the spring of 2017. The current total
tertiary filtration average dry weather flow capacity is 14.9 MGD. The tertiary
City of Turlock Regional Water Quality Control Facility ORDER R5-2022-0034
City of Modesto Water Quality Control Facility NPDES CA0085316

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 treated wastewater may be reused o n the City of Modesto’s 2,526 -acre ranch ,
discharged to the San Joaquin River , or discharged to the Delta -Mendota Canal .
The City of Modesto’s separates cannery wastes from the domestic wastewater.
A separate 60 -inch outfall transports cannery wastewaters to the ranch land
located next to the secondary -level treatment facility. The cannery wastewater is
applied directly to the ranch land at agronomic rates during the canning season
(July – September). Land application of cannery and secondary wastewaters t o
the ranch land is regulated by separate Order 99 -112.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
1. City of Turlock RWQCF . The City of Turlock expects flows to the Facility to
increase to 25.4 MGD due to growth by 2045. Therefore, the City of Turlock is
planning to expand the treatment capacity of the RWQCF as needed to
accommodate growth in the service area. However, current average flows are
approximately 10.3 MGD and an expansion is not expected to be necessary
during the term of this Order .
The City of Turlock plans to construct an outfall for discharge to the Turlock
Irrigation District (TID) Upper Lateral 4 , which is authorized by Order R5-2021 -
0005 . The purpose of the new discharge to the TID Upper Lateral 4 is to supply
recycled water to augment irri gation supplies when there is demand within the
TID service area from agricultural users within TID’s canal system during the
irrigation season (1 March through 31 October) and is limited to a maximum of
2,033 acre -feet annually. The City of Turlock will a lso modify its recycled water
supply infrastructure to provide dechlorinated recycled water to TID Upper
Lateral 4. Prior to initiating discharge, the outfall to TID’s Upper Lateral 4 must
also be constructed.
2. City of Modesto WQCF . The City of Modesto previously conducted an
antidegradation analysis for the full Phase 3 build -out discharge of 19.1 MGD .
With adoption of Order R5 -2017 -0064 the Central Valley Water Board authorized
the discharge up to 19.1 MGD, contingent upon the Discharger const ructing the
necessary facility upgrades . Phases 4 and 5 are planned for the future with a full
build -out tertiary treatment capacity of 27.3 MGD. The City of Modesto does not
anticipate expanding capacity during the term of this Order .
III. APPLICABLE PLA NS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Wa ter Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 133 70). It shall serve as a n NPDES permit for point
source discharges from these Facilities to surface waters.
City of Turlock Regional Water Quality Control Facility ORDER R5-2022-0034
City of Modesto Water Quality Control Facility NPDES CA0085316

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-13 B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
Division 13 of the Public Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Pla ns
1. Water Quality Control Plan . Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the applicable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basin Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Wate r Quality Control
Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin Rive r Basins, Fifth Edition,
May 2018 (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses,
establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs
and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed t hrough the
plan. Requi rements in this Order implement the Basin Plan . In addition, the
Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially suitable for mu nicipal or domestic supply .
Beneficial uses applicable to Delta -Mendota Canal are as follows:
Table F -4 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point