wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of pers ons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, includi ng identification of who performed the
calibrations (Standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the curr ent operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as curr ently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conduc ted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2008-0004 -7-
TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT – TEJON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX WWTF
KERN COUNTY
6. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids; b. A schematic diagram showing sludge hand ling facilities and solids flow diagram;
and
c. A description of disposal methods, in cluding the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge producti on disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal , include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifi cations of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the fa cilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs t hat regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
7. A summary and discussion of the complianc e record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.

All technical reports required herein must be ov erseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any
violations during the reporting period and all acti ons taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time sc hedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.
The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 25 January 2008 (Date)

ARP/DKP: 1/25/08
INFORMATION SHEET
 ORDER NO. R5-2008-0004 TEJON-CASTAC WATER DISTRICT – TEJON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX WWTF
KERN COUNTY

Background
The Tejon-Castac Water District (hereafter District) owns and operates a wastewater
collection, treatment, and disposal facility (WWTF) that prov ides sewerage services at the
Tejon Industrial Complex (Com plex). The land on which the WWTF and Complex resides is
owned by Tejon Ranchcorp and includes a hote l, gas stations, restaurants, shower and
restrooms areas, convenience stor es and industrial warehouses at the junction of Interstate
Five at Laval Road. The District and Tejon Ranc hcorp are hereafter referr ed to as Discharger.
The WWTF has an average daily flow of 0.06 millio n gallons per day (mgd). On 30 November
2004, the Discharger submitted a report of waste discharge (RWD) in support of a modification
and expansion of the WWTF from 0.05 to 0.1 mgd.
 Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 99-076 adopted by the Regional Water Board on 11 June 1999, was originally issued to Tejon Ranchcorp before the formation of the
District. Order No. 99-076 limits the discharge to 0.05 mgd. The Dischar ger initially proposed
to exclusively recycle disinfected tertiary effluent on landscaped areas (Landscaped Use Area)
surrounding the Industrial Complex. Therefor e, the WDRs establish