existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the Califor nia Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), in accordance with
Title 14 CCR, Section 15301.
62. An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) wa s prepared for the project in accordance with
the CEQA when the property was first developed. The Sutter County Board of
Supervisors approved the project on 19 Sept ember 2000 and a Notice of Determination
was filed by Sutter County on 20 September 2000. The EIR indicated that the
wastewater treatment facili ty, recycled water irrigation and biosolids application
practices may have the following significant impacts on water quality:

a. An onsite wastewater disposal system could result in degradation of water quality
and/or pose a health risk, if not properly designed and maintained.
b. Continued and prolonged us e of on-site wastewater disposal and water supply
systems may lead to potential wa ter quality and supply problems.
c. Surface water quality could be impacted as a result of urban runoff pollutants and
first-flush roadway contaminants that c ontain oil, grease and heavy metals. In
addition, groundwater quality may be affected in the event that contaminated
surface runoff is stored in detention bas ins and allowed to enter the aquifer.
d. Construction activities can result in the degradation of surface water quality.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0062 -13-
SYSCO FOOD SERVICES OF SACRAMENTO, INC.
SUTTER COUNTY

 63. The Board has reviewed the EIR and det ermined that compliance with the waste
discharge requirements (WDRs) and mitigation measures described in the EIR will
mitigate the significant impacts on water qua lity listed in Finding No. 62 to less than
significant levels. Specific mitigation m easures corresponding to the list above, are
addressed below:
a. The Discharger shall utilize a wastewater package treatment plant approved by
Sutter County and will receive WDRs from the Board. Sutter County has
recognized the Regional Water Board as lead agency for supervision of the
wastewater treatment system at the site.
b. As required by Sutter County General Plan Policy 3.3-C, the project shall connect
to new public system(s) for sewage treatm ent and disposal and water supply when
they become available. The Discharger contacted the public agency that is
expected to provide service in the future. There are no plans to provide service in
the foreseeable future.
c. The Discharger shall obtain the appr opriate National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) pe rmit for Industrial activiti es from the Board. The
project shall include an onsite detent ion pond with a water quality treatment
component consistent with Reclamation District 1000’s guidelines and criteria. The proposed ditches within the buffer s hall be designed to enhance water quality
treatment. Best Management Practices and Source Control shall be implemented
for the project. The Discharger has co mplied with Reclamati on District 1000’s
requirements by obtaining an NPDES pe rmit for stormwater discharges.
d. The Discharger shall file a Notice of In tent with the Board to comply with the terms
of the NPDES General Permit to Di scharge Storm Water Associated with
Construction Activity. The Discharger has obtained this permit.
Public Notice
64. All of the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached
Information Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in
establishing the following conditions of discharge.
65. The Discharger and interested agencies and pers ons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been
provided an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written
views and recommendations.
66. All comments pertaining to the disc harge were heard and considered in a public
meeting.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0062 -14-
SYSCO FOOD SERVICES OF SACRAMENTO, INC.
SUTTER COUNTY

 IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, pursuant to Sections 13263 and 13267 of the California
Water Code, Order No. 5-01-204 is rescinded and Sysco Food Services of Sacramento, its
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the
following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, def initions, and some methods of determining
compliance are contained in the attached "St andard Provisions and Reporting Requirements
for Waste Discharge Requirem ents” dated 1 March 1991.]
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage c ourses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall cause a nu isance or condition of pollution
as defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
4. Discharge of waste classified as hazardous, as defined in Sections 2521(a) of Title 23,
CCR, Section 2510, et seq., (hereafter Chapt er 15, or ‘designated’, as defined in
Section 13173 of the California Water Code, is prohibited.
5. The discharge shall not cause the degradation of any water supply. 6. Surfacing of wastewater fr om the recirculating sand filter, percolation pond walls, or the
stormwater pond walls is prohibited.
7. Discharge of wastewater except as described in this order is prohibited.
8. The use of non-biodegradabl e detergents, solvents, cleanser s, degreasers or any other
compounds with the potential for discharge into the wastewater treatment or disposal
system is prohibited.
9. The discharge of any wastewat er other than that originati ng on-site from domestic or
truck wash water sources is prohibited.
10. Application of biosolids, septage, or other wastewater de rived solids to the facility,
except as designed in the wastewat er treatment system, is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. The monthly average daily discharge to t he system shall not exceed 10,000 gallons per
day.
2. The Discharger shall not take the existing wastewater treatment sy stem out of service
without first submitting the r eports required by Provisi ons No. G.1.c and G.1.d, and
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0062 -15-
SYSCO FOOD SERVICES OF SACRAMENTO, INC.
SUTTER COUNTY


receiving written approval to begin operati ng the new wastewater system from the
Executive Officer.
3. Until the Discharger obtains written authorization to begin operating the new wastewater
system, the Discharger shall continue to m onitor the existing system consistent with
Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 5-01-204.
4. As required by Sutter County General Plan Policy 3.3-c and the approved EIR,
connection to a public sewage treatment fac ility when available shall be performed as
soon as practicable.
5. Objectionable odors originating at this fa cility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the wastewater treatment and disposal areas, including t he truck wash pretreatment
system.
6. The treatment plant effluent shall not have a pH of less t han 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
7. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
8. The oil and grease separator shall have the necessary capacity to provide adequate
detention time to remove scum and settlable solids from the wastewater flow.
9. The truck wash pretreat ment system shall be maintained to prevent detectable
petroleum hydrocarbons from disc harging to the wastewater system.
10. All portions of the wast ewater treatment and disposal system shall be designed,
constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent inundation or was hout due to floods
with a 100-year return frequency.
11. The conveyance, treatment, and disposal systems shall have sufficient capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow, desi gn seasonal precipit ation, and ancillary
inflow and infiltration. De sign seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed mont hly in accordance with
the historical rainfall patterns.
12. By 1 October every year , available storage capacity sh all at least equal the volume
necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications Nos. 10 and 11.
13. The Discharger shall maintain an acti ve burrowing rodent cont rol program at all
wastewater treatment and disposal ponds. Burrowing animals shall not be allowed to
exist in the vicinity of the wastewater system. Any animal burrows discovered within 25
feet of any wastewater tr eatment or disposal pond shal l be repaired within 30-days.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0062 -16-
SYSCO FOOD SERVICES OF SACRAMENTO, INC.
SUTTER COUNTY


C.