FACILITY DESCRIPTION 
The Discharger owns and operates a CSS that conveys domestic and commercial 
wastewater and storm water runoff from approximately 7,500 acres (approximately 280  
miles of sewer pipe) in downtown Sacramento, East Sacramento, and Land Park areas. The Discharger also owns and operates a separate sanitary sewer system that conveys domestic and commercial wastewater. Approximately 3,800 acres (approxi mately 78  
miles of sewer pipe) of the separated sanitary sewer system surrounding the CSS to the north, east, and south, contributes flows to the CSS. This portion of the separated system is regulated under separate State Water Board Order No. 2022- 0103 -DWQ, Statewide 
General WDRs for Sanitary Sewer Systems. The Discharger maximizes flows from the 
CSS to the Sacramento Area Sewer District’s (SacSewer) EchoWater Resource 
Recovery (EchoWater Facility) for tertiary treatment. The population served is based on a total population of 535,000 estimated by the United States Census Bureau for the City of Sacramento. The combined sewer system provides sewer service to 20  percent of the 
geographic area. It is estimated based on census tract level data that the CSS services approximately 140,000 people.  
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls  
Facility Overview:  The Facility consists of four main complexes to manage the 
collected combined sewage: Sumps 1/1A, Sumps 2/2A, the Pioneer Reservoir Treatment Plant  (Pioneer Reservoir), and the Combined Wastewater Treatment 
Plant (CWTP). The CSS conveys domestic and industrial wastewater and storm runoff to Sumps 2/2A, where up to 60 MGD  of flow is pumped via the Regional 
Force Main and City Interceptor to SacSewer’s  Echowater Facility  for tertiary  
treatment prior to discharge to the Sacramento River.  
When flow to Sumps 2/2A exceeds 60 MGD , in system storage begins and, 
depending on the storm intensity and duration,  flows may be routed to the CWTP (7 
million gallons of storage capacity in the CWTP  and approximately 2.5 million 
gallons of storage in the CWTP Force Main)  and/or Pioneer Reservoir (23 million 
gallons of storage capacity in the Pioneer R eservoir and 5 million gallons of storage 
capacity in the Pioneer Interceptor) . When  the CWTP has optimized storage, flows 
continue to be sent to the Pioneer Reservoir for primary treatment (including sedimentation and floatables removal, and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite) of up to 250 MGD  and, after dechlorination (using sodium bisulfite), discharge to the 
Sacramento River at Discharge Point 006 and/or sent via the CWTP Force Main to the CWTP. In the CWTP, an additional 130 MGD  of combined wastewater receives 
primary treatment (including sedimentation and floatables removal, and disinfection using sodium hypochlorite) and, after dechlorination (using sodium bisulfite), discharges to the Sacramento River at Discharge Points 002 or 003. The CWTP basins may also be used for storage of up to 9. 5 million gallons (including the CWTP 
Force Main) of flow and diversion of flows back to the SRWTP. During major storms, Sumps 1/1A/1B can also pump up to 200 MGD  of flow to Pioneer Reservoir.  
Collected sludge from the CWTP and Pioneer Reservoir is sent to the SRWTP.  
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-6  During extreme high flow conditions  after treatment has been maximized at Pioneer 
Reservoir and the CWTP, discharges of untreated combined wastewater may occur at Sump 2/2A through Discharge Points 004 and 005 and at the Sump 1/1A Pioneer Bypass at Discharge Point 007. Each of the six permitted combined sewer overflow 
(CSO) Discharge Points (002 through 007) discharge directly to the Sacramento River.   
 The Facility also includes several remote storage facilities at strategic locations within the CSS  to minimize the potential for localized flooding and outflows . The 
table below summarizes the Discharger’s remote storage facilities.  In addition to 
these designated storage facilities,  the collection system is oversized to provide in -
line storage throughout the service area. 
Table F -2. CSS Remote Storage Facilities  
Remote Storage Facility  Location  Capacity  
(Million Gallons)  
42nd Street (Sump 77)  42nd Street and R Street  1.5 
Medical Center (Sump 78)  49th Street and V Street  2.8 
Tahoe Broadway (In -Line)  Broadway Blvd and Tahoe Park  1.5 
Land Park (In -Line)  North of City Zoo  0.4 
U&S Parallel Sewer  East of Sump 1 and 1A  0.4 
Oak Park Regional Storage Facility  8th Avenue and San Carlos Way  4 
McKinley Water Vault  McKinley Park  6.6 
 
Long Term Control Plan (LTCP):  In the 1980s and early 1990s , it was recognized 
that the combined stormwater  and sewage system in downtown Sacramento posed 
health and safety  problems beyond the periodic discharge of poorly treated or 
untreated sewage to the Sacramento River. Wet weather flooding was occurring 
within the City,  either because combined system pipes were inadequate to drain 
away local  runoff, or because those pipes were already filled to capacity by 
upstream  runoff and there was nowhere for local runoff to go. Most seriously, at 
times  upstream storm water and sewage would so overload the piping that the  
combined storm water and raw sewage would flow out of storm water inlets,  flooding 
streets, yards, houses and commercial establishments with combined storm water 
and sewage.  
The Central Valley Water Board initiated discussions with the Discharger and subsequently enforcement actions concerning the environmental and public health concerns associated with both the discharge to the Sacramento River and the outflow of sewage from the combined system pipes into the City. The initial discussions assumed that separate sewer and storm water systems would need to be constructed, but after considerable study, the City proposed enhancements to the combined system rather than construction of separate systems. Costs to separate the system have been evaluated and found to be much greater than costs to enhance the system. The Central Valley Water Board, after careful consideration 
and hearings, accepted and approved the Discharger’s proposal to enhance the combined system. The general areas of improvement were:  
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-7 • Increased storage of combined system wastewater prior to discharge to the Sacramento River to capture the maximum volume of water feasible during wet weather events to optimize the pumping of combined system wastewater to the SRWTP.   
• Improved pumping, piping, and controls to allow maximum use of the 
increased wastewater storage.  
• Improved treatment of combined system wastewater discharges to the Sacramento River.  
• Selective replacement of bottlenecks in the combined system piping to provide adequate drainage for storm water and prevention of local flooding and sewage outflows.  
• At locations where increased piping size alone would not eliminate flooding and outflows, storage volume was provided within the collection system to hold peak flows. This also increased the overall storage of the combined system, reducing discharges to the Sacramento River.   
• Development of a hydraulic model of the combined system to allow identification of projects to optimize the system.  
• Commitment of minimum annual expenditures for combined system improvements.  
The advantages of enhancing the combined system over construction of separate systems included:  
• Elimination of all dry weather discharges and most wet weather discharges of storm water to the Sacramento River from the combined system area. If a separate storm water system was constructed, the collected urban runoff and storm water would presumably be discharged 
untreated to the Sacramento River, rather than being treated at the EchoWater Facility to tertiary  treatment standards.  
• Reduction in flooding in the downtown area. The existing piping was not adequate to handle storm water flows, so would need to be replaced with larger piping and pumping facilities in many areas. The existing piping was also not well designed to handle only sewage and would need significant improvement if the existing piping was to carry only sewage. It appeared that, in parts of the City, two new piping systems would need to be constructed.  
• If a separated system was to be constructed, piping would need to be modified in essentially every street throughout the CSS service area, causing major disruption of traffic and safety issues for years. Enhancement of the existing combined system required construction in 
more limited areas of the City.  
The U.S. EPA CSO Control Policy requires implementation of a Long -Term Control 
Plan (LTCP) to comply with water quality -based requirements of the Clean Water 
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-8 Act. The ultimate goal of the LTCP has been to alleviate outflows and flooding in the 
CSS area during a 10- year storm event and to prevent structure flooding during a 
100-year storm event. In July 1995, the Discharger adopted the Combined Sewer 
System Improvement Plan (CSSIP) which constituted the Discharger’s LTCP.  The 
CSSIP is a legacy requirement from a 1990 Central Valley Water Board Cease and Desist Order (CDO) that required the City to cease and desist from discharging waste contrary to requirements and implement a plan to address outflows.  The 
Discharger has made multiple updates to the original 1995 CSSIP and now implements the 20 24 LTCP in compliance with the CSO Control Policy requirement. 
The interim goals established in the 1995 CSSIP were as follows:  
• Obtaining protection from a 5- year storm in the six areas of worst flooding 
(including downtown, north of Capit ol Park; U.C. Medical Center area; 
immediately south of Highway 80 between Riverside and Freeport; the area northeast of Highway 99 and Highway 80 interchange; the area northwest of Highway 99 and Highway 80 interchange, and the Land Park area),  
• Obtaining protection from a 5- year storm throughout the combined sewer 
system area,  
• Obtaining protection from a 10- year storm in the six areas of worst 
flooding, and then  
• Obtaining the goal of protection from a 10- year storm event throughout the 
combined sewer system.  
The Discharger’s program is based on the presumption approach. This approach is defined in the U.S. EPA CSO Control Policy as a “… program that meets any of the 
criteria listed below would be presumed to provide an adequate level of control to meet the water quality -based requirements of the CWA, provided the permitting 
authority determines that such presumption is reasonable in light  of the data and 
analysis conducted in the characterization, monitoring, and modeling of the system and the consideration of s ensitive areas described above. These criteria are 
provided because data and modeling of wet weather events often do not give a clear picture of the level of CSO controls necessary to protect WQS [ Water Quality 
Standards ]”. 
The performance criteria for the presumption approach option selected by the Discharger specifies the elimination or the capture for treatment of no less than 85 percent by volume of the combined sewage collected in the CSS during precipitation events  (days with at least 0.1" of rainfall in previous 24 hour period)  on a system -
wide annual average basis. In addition, CSO’s remaining after implementation of the Nine Minimum Controls and that is captured for treatment should receive a minimum of: 
• Primary clarification (removal of floatables and settleable solids may be achieved by any combination- of treatment technologies or methods that 
are shown to be equivalent to primary clarification);  
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-9 • Solids and floatables disposal; and  
• Disinfection of effluent, if necessary, to meet WQS, protect designated uses and protect human health, including removal of harmful disinfection chemical residuals, where necessary.  
The first phase of the 1995 CSSIP  concluded that increasing the pumping capacities 
of Sumps 1/1A and 2/2A concurrent with rehabilitation of the CSS and development of local storage projects, was the most cost -effective approach for reducing flooding 
and outflows from the CSS. Order R5 -2015- 0045 required the Discharger to update 
its CSSIP while continuing implementation. The updated CSSIP was submitted in 2018 and renamed as the Discharger’s LTCP, and a revision was submitted in 2019 with the ROWD.  
The 2014 CSSIP update  identified 28 projects and three programs that were 
prioritized based on considerations such as flood- reduction benefits, cost 
effectiveness, ensuring no increase in untreated discharges, sewer condition/age, cost sharing opportunities, and City/community interests.  
The 2018 LTCP update evaluated the CSS impacts on water quality per the CSO Policy and the 1995 LTCP Guidance Manual. The 2013 WQA concluded that the infrequent and short duration of CSS overflow discharges and pollutant loadings do not impact applicable receiving water beneficial uses; therefore, the recommended plan as presented in the LTCP targets reducing CSS outflows in specific flooding areas as described in the interim goals. The six areas of worst flooding (referred to as wet areas), as confirmed with the City’s hydrologic and hydraulic (H&H) modeling, were identified in the 1995 CSSIP and are shown in the figure below. Model enhancements have been made to add physical network representation details within the six wet areas to improve the accuracy of  the model and improve the 
understanding of flooding: 
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-10  
The City’s 2018 LTCP presented the prioritized projects and programs with a schedule for completing the t op 20  percent  of Projects identified in the 2014 CSSIP 
and the goal of reducing outflows by using flooding protection goals as a proxy for outflow reductions. The t op 20  percent  of Projects included six capital improvement 
projects within the collection system.  
• 2018 LTCP Phase 1 Completed Projects : 
• Existing System Optimization Project, which included the Tahoe 
Park/Broadway Parallel Sewer Project  and East End Relief Sewer Tie-
in Project . 
• Project 3- 1 (Freeport Sewer Improvement – Bidwell and Freeport  
• Project 1- 3 (9th Street Sewer Replacement from G to L Street Inline 
Storage Project (Downtown Sewer Upsizing))  
• Project 4- 1&2 (McKinley Park CS Storage Facility)  
• 2018 LTCP Phase 1 Near Term Project : 
• Project 1- 6 (24th Street Storage)  
• 2018 LTCP Remaining Projects : 

CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-11 • Project 5- 3 (W and 25th Street Storage) (Phase 1)  
• Existing System Optimization Project (Phase 1)  
The W and 25th Street Storage Project was postponed indefinitely due to right -of-
way issues presented by Caltrans that have resulted in the project being infeasible to construct. The 2020 NPDES Permit required the LTCP to consider the effects of climate change by updating the H&H model with the latest precipitation data. Further assessment of the remaining 80 p ercent of  projects with the Updated 2024 Design 
Storm (noted in Section 6.0) indicate that those projects no longer make significant progress towards  the desired goal of capturing and storing peak flows from the 10-
year, 6- hour design storm .  
As the continued predicted increase in rainfall intensities for design storms makes 
flood reduction more challenging, an adaptive management strategy allows the 
Discharger to use strategies that focus on the highest priority areas based on confirmed outflow locations rather than using only flooding as a proxy for predicting outflows.  The adaptive management strategy starts with implementation of the 2018 
LTCP Phase 1 Projects and Pilot Programs  outlined above, additional refinement of 
the H&H model, impleme ntation of smart covers in targeted areas, and refinement of 
cost estimates. The adaptive management strategy is designed to continuously 
refine the accuracy and confidence of the tools and information and use the updated tools and information to further analyze, develop, and refine the LTCP once the Phase 1 Projects and Pilot Programs are completed.  
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters  
1. The Facility is located in sectio n 22, T8N, R4E, MDB&M, as shown in Attachment 
B, a part of this Order.  
2. Domestic and industrial wastewater and storm runoff with primary treatment  and 
disinfection is discharged from the CWTP at Discharge Point 002 (38º31.164’ N and 121º 31.440’ W) or 003 (38º 31.397’ N and 121º 31.424’ W) to the 
Sacramento River, a water of the United States . 
3. Untreated domestic and industrial wastewater and storm runoff from Sumps 2and 2A is discharged at Discharge Points 004 (38º 32.869’ N and 121º 30.622’W)  or 
005 (38º 32.864’ N and 121º 31.623’ W) to the Sacramento River, a water of the 
United States.  
4.  Domestic and industrial wastewater and storm runoff with primary treatment  and 
disinfection is discharged from the Pioneer Reservoir at Discharge Point006 (38º 34.308’ N and 121º 30.800’ W) to the Sacramento River, a water of  the United 
States.  
5.  Untreated domestic and industrial wastewater and storm runoff from Sumps 1and 1A is discharged at Discharge Point 007 (38º 34.322’ N and 121º 30.786’W)  to 
the Sacramento River, a water of the United States.  
CITY OF SACRAMENTO - COMBINED WASTEWATER  ORDER R5 -2026- 0003 
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM  NPDES NO. CA0079111  
 
ATTACHMENT F FACT SHEET  F-12 C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self -Monitoring Report (SMR) Data  
Effluent limitations contained in Order  R5-2020 -0039 for discharges from Discharge 
Points 002, 003, and 006 (Monitoring Location EFF- 002, EFF -003, and EFF -006) 
and representative monitoring data from the term of Order  R5-2020- 0039 are as 
follows:  
Table F -3 Historic Effluent Limitations  
Parameter  Units  Historic Effluent Limitations  EFF-002 
Highest 
Discharge  EFF-006 
Highest 
Discharge  
Total Suspended 
Solids (TSS)  mg/L  Storm Year Average  (SYA)  - 
100 SYA 86 SYA 112 
Settleable Solids  ml/L Maximum Daily – 1.0 MAX 0.1 MAX 0.25 
Chlorine, Total 
Residual  mg/L  Maximum Daily – 0.019  MAX 0 MAX 0 
pH Standard 
units  Instantaneous M in - 6.0 
Instantaneous M ax - 8.5 MIN 6. 1 
MAX 8.5  MIN 6.2  
MAX 7 .0 
Table F -3 Notes:  
1. Storm Year Average.  A storm year is defined as 1 October through 30 
September of the following year.  
2. Total Suspended Solids. In addition to storm year average effluent limit, two 
consecutive samples shall not exceed 150 mg/L.  
3.  Total Suspended Solids and Settleable Solids. Effluent limits are applicable to Discharge Point 006 (Pioneer Reservoir) for flows of 250 MGD or less and for all flows from Discharge Points 002 and 003.  
D. Compliance Summary  
The Central Valley Water Board has not  issued Administrative Civil Liability (ACL) 
Complaint s under Order  R5-2020 -0039. 
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes  – none  
III.