FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sew erage service for the City of Alturas and serves a population
of approximately 2,500. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is
0.50 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system consists of an inlet screen, grit removal, a grinder, one
primary clarifier, a trickling filter for biological treatment, two secondary clarifiers, a
chlorine contact basin, and a dechlorination station. Conventional gas chlorination is
CITY OF ALTURAS ORDER R5- 2020-0004
CITY OF
ALTURAS WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0078921


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 used for disinfection followed by sulfur dioxide dechlorination. The trickling filter
consists of plastic media with an underdrain/recirculation pump station. During the
winter months, when cold temperatures reduce the effectiveness of the trickling filter,
ferric chloride is injected prior to primary clarification and a blended aluminum
coagulant is added prior to secondary clarification.

Solids are digested in an anaerobic digester and dried in concrete-lined sludge
drying beds. The sludge drying beds include an underdrain system that routes filtrate
to the trickling filter. Dried solids are hauled to the Modoc County landfill. The Facility
produces approximately 69 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger received a $500,000 planning grant from the State Water Board
Division of Financial Assistance in December 2017 to complete the following
submittals:
1. Sanitary sewer evaluation survey;
2. Engineering report, including treatment and disposal options;
3. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) documents; and
4. Rate study.
The Discharger and their contracted engineer believe the most feasible option for
long-term compliance with the Order is to switch to land discharge. According to the
CITY OF ALTURAS ORDER R5 -2020 -0004
CITY OF ALTURAS WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0078921


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9 revised planning grant sche dule, the final engineering report is planned for
completion in by April 2020.
III.