FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Copperopolis and serves
a population of approximately 4,500. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 0.95 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of a secondary treatment system and a Title 22 tertiary 
treatment system. The secondary treatment system at the Facility consists of a 
headworks and flow diverter, two aerated ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) operated in 
parallel, followed by an additional aerated pond (Pond 4) for settling and polishing 
before being pumped to the tertiary treatment system which consists of tertiary 
filtration and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. Pond 3 is currently out of service and 
Pond 5 is no longer used for storage of treated wastewater. Un-disinfected, 
secondary treated wastewater is stored on-site in an unlined storage reservoir (Pond 
6).  
The Facility produces recycled water for irrigation of the CVGC, to supply water to 
the jurisdictional wetlands, and for land application via spray irrigation on 35 acres of 
spray irrigation fields located adjacent to Pond 6. The tertiary treatment portion of 
the Facility is operated intermittently depending on demand and water availability. 
Title 22 tertiary treated effluent is collected in a recycled water storage tank and then 
conveyed to Pond NC-2D at the CVGC to be used for golf course irrigation or to 
provide makeup water for the wetland system. CCWD also pipes raw water from 
Lake Tulloch into the recycled water storage tank where is comingles with recycled 
water, if present, to meet reclaimed water demand at the CVGC. 
This Order regulates the discharge of tertiary-treated wastewater mixed with raw 
water from Lake Tulloch from Pond NC-2D to the jurisdictional wetlands at 
Discharge Point 001. This Order also includes the Title 22 water reclamation 
requirements for the Facility for reuse on the CVGC .  
The collection system, secondary treatment and storage facilities, sludge treatment 
and control, and land disposal of tertiary treated effluent onsite are regulated under 
separate WDR Order R5- 2010-0070. There are four groundwater monitoring wells 
located upgradient and downgradient from Ponds 1, 2, 4, and 6 as shown in 
Attachment B of this Order and described in WDR Order R5-2010-0070. 
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1.The Facility is located in s ection 26, T1N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B of this Order.
2.In 1994, the US Army Corps of Engineers authorized fill activity pursuant to a
Clean Water Act Section 404 general permit, Nationwide Permit 26 (404 permit),
at what is now the jurisdictional wetland system. The wetland system includesORDER R5-2 023-0013  
NPDES NO. CA0084620 
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT  
AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF CLUB, LLC 
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6several man-made and natural lakes, including Mitchell Lake. The 404 permit 
required that several perennial ponds and wetland areas (jurisdictional wetlands) 
have a continuous supply of water to maintain minimum levels. The CVGC has 
sole responsibility to fulfill the mitigation requirements of supplying water to the 
wetlands. Therefore, the CVGC uses water from Pond NC-2D when necessary to 
supply make-up water to the jurisdictional wetlands shown in Attachment B. 
Mitchell Lake, which is tributary to Littlejohns Creek, is not supplied with 
reclaimed water from Pond NC-2D. During severe wet weather events, some of 
the jurisdictional wetlands receiving reclaimed water may overflow to Mitchell 
Lake and thence to Littlejohns Creek; however, the fraction of reclaimed water in 
overflows to Littlejohns Creek is expected to be minimal since reclaimed water 
supplemented with raw water from Lake Tulloch is used for make-up water only 
as necessary and will be diluted by the large amounts of storm water runoff into 
the jurisdictional wetlands. Pond NC-2D does not receive irrigation runoff or 
storm water runoff, as a 54-inch bypass pipe diverts all runoff in order to 
minimize the potential for overflows of reclaimed water from Pond NC-2D to 
Littlejohns Creek.  
Incidental runoff from golf course irrigation may enter Littlejohns Creek at eight 
locations. Neither the use of reclaimed water for golf course irrigation nor the 
incidental runoff of excess irrigation water is considered a point source discharge 
to waters of the United States and does not require an NPDES permit. 
3.Tertiary treated municipal wastewater mixed with raw water from Lake Tulloch is
discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the jurisdictional wetlands, waters of the
United States, at multiple discharge locations (refer to Attachment B).
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R5-2018-0040 for discharges of UV 
disinfected effluent from Discharge Point 001 (Monitoring Locations REC-001 and 
REC- 002) and representative monitoring data from the term of Order R5-2018-0040 
are as follows: 
Table F- 2. Historic Effluent Limitations 
Parameter Units Historic Effluent 
Limitations Highest 
Average 
Monthly 
Discharge Highest 
Average 
Weekly 
Discharge Highest 
Daily 
Discharge 
Ammonia 
Nitrogen, Total 
(as N) mg/L AMEL 0.5 
AWEL 1.4 0.61 0.61 -- 
Biochemical 
Oxygen 
Demand (5-day 
@ 20˚C)  mg/L AMEL 30 
AWEL 45 4.1 5.7 -- ORDER R5-2 023-0013  
NPDES NO. CA0084620 
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT  
AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF CLUB, LLC 
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7Parameter Units Historic Effluent 
Limitations Highest 
Average 
Monthly 
Discharge Highest 
Average 
Weekly 
Discharge Highest 
Daily 
Discharge 
Biochemical 
Oxygen 
Demand (5-day 
@ 20˚C)  % 
removal Average Monthly Min 85 94 -- -- 
Nitrate Plus 
Nitrite (as N) mg/L AMEL 10 
AWEL 17 2.7 2.7 -- 
pH Standard 
units Instantaneous Max 8.5 
Instantaneous Min 6.5 -- 6.5 – 8.3 -- 
Total 
Suspended 
Solids mg/L AMEL 30 
AWEL 45 3.3 1.9 -- 
Total 
Suspended 
Solids % 
removal Average Monthly Min 85 97 -- -- 
Acute Toxicity % 
survival Instantaneous Min 70 
Three Consecutive 
Median 90 -- -- 100 
Table F-2 Notes:  
1.Percent removal.  The highest average monthly discharge for BOD and TSS is provided as
the minimum average monthly discharge.
2.pH. Highest daily discharge is provided as a range from weekly minimum to weekly
maximum.
3.Acute Toxicity.  The highest daily discharge for acute toxicity is provided as the minimum
observed percent survival.
4.Ammonia and Nitrate Plus Nitrite.  Compliance for ammonia and nitrate plus nitrite
effluent limitations are determined at Monitoring Location REC-002.
D. Compliance Summary
There are no major compliance issues and no Administrative Civil Liability Orders 
have been issued for violations of the current permit. 
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to install a dissolved air floatation system for filter pretreatment 
to address seasonal issues related to algae, coloring, and tannins in water sourced 
from Pond 6. This improvement is planned for completion in the next two years. 
The Discharger also plans to replace the current tertiary filter and may install a 
second filter for flexibility and equipment redundancy. Replacement of the old filter is ORDER R5-2 023-0013  
NPDES NO. CA0084620 
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT  
AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF CLUB, LLC 
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY 
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8planned for completion in the next three to four years. Other improvements during 
this phase may include installation of a second redundant UV disinfection system, 
building expansion, addition of emergency power for the tertiary treatment system, 
and site improvements for drainage.  
III.