Wastewater Treatment Facility and Disposal
 8. According to the January 2005 RWD , the new WWTF consists of a headworks ,
magnetic flow meter, extended aeration basin, clarifier, chlorine contact basin, a lined
storage pond, and four concrete lined sludge drying beds with decanting structures. The
WWTF has a design treatment capacity of 80,000 gpd. Secondary disinfected recycled
water is spray irrigated over 40 acres of land owned by the Discharger. A flow
schematic of the new WWTF and sprayfields (Use Area) is shown on Attachment B
which is made part of this Order.
 9. The Discharger has a 10- year lease agreement with a local farmer to allow beef cattle to
graze on the 40 acre Use Area . The cattle typically graze the Use Area from March
through July.
 10. In March 2005, the Discharger submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report to the
Department of Public Health (DPH) for the proposed recycled water project that includes
the discharge of secondary disinfected recycled water to 40 acre Use Area to grow
forage crops .
 11. According to the November 2007 Construction Quality Assurance Certification Report the storage pond was constructed with a 60- mil HDPE liner. The sludge drying beds are
concrete lined.
 12. Tailwater management includes sprinkler application of secondary disinfected recycled
water at a rate of 0.25 inch/hour . The Use Area consists of rolling hills that have swale
type drainage areas . The Use Area has inter nal berms that intercept recycled w ater
runoff prior to it reaching the drainage areas and a tailwater collection system consist ing
of eight tailwater pump stations at low points near the south boundary of the Use Area.
The tailwater pump stations are designed to return recycled water runoff back to the
effluent storage pond.
 13. According to the RWD, stormwater management practices include , not irrigati ng the Use
Area s at least 24 hours before a predicted rainfall and not resum ing irrigation until
48 hours after any rainfall to minimize the potential of surface runoff of recycled water.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -3-
Other stormwater management practices include a moisture- sensing switch and wind
anemometer at the irrigation pump stat ion that serve as back -ups to prevent the
irrigation pumps from turning on and discharging to the Use Area when it is likely to rain
or it is too windy. Stormwater is allowed to run off -site.
 14. The 100 -year water balance included in the RWD shows that the storage capacity of the
storage pond will need to be 10 acre- feet to accommodate flows of 80,000 gpd. The
storage capacity of the pond is 10 acre- feet
 15. Sludge produced from the WWTF will be dried in concrete lined sludge drying beds. According to the RWD, dried sludge will either be hauled off -site to a permitted landfill or
used as soil amendment. The RWD does not describe specific sludge/biosolids drying,
storage, and disposal practices. A provision requiring the Discharger to submit a technical report describing its specific solids and sludge/biosoli ds handling and disposal
practices is included in this Order.
 16. The Discharger ’s self-monitoring reports (SMRs) from January 2009 through
December 2012 indicate the monthly average flow rates range from 0.012 mgd to
0.037 mgd. Yearly effluent averages for pH, chlorine residual, BOD, TSS are
shown in Table 1.

Table 1. Effluent Quality

 pH1 Chlorine Residual BOD TSS
 pH Units mg/L mg/L mg/L
2009 8.17 0.72 6.40 17.00
2010 7.88 0.53 6.90 8.67
2011 7.75 0.29 5.72 8.73
2012 7.98 0.22 8.11 10.51
1 Calculated by taking the average of the hydrogen ion and converting back to pH.
 17. Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) 94- 281 requires the Discharger to
sample for general minerals on a yearly basis. The Discharger has not submitted general minerals for eight years based on SMRs from 2005 through 2012.
 18. According to the October 2005 RWD supplement , the new WWTF will provide
denitri fication to produce an effluent with a total nitrogen concentration of about
10 mg/L . BOD and TN loading rates to the 40 acres are 0.14 lbs/acres/day and
60.91 lbs/acre/yr, respectively, based on the 2012 annual average effluent BOD
of 8.11 mg/L and proposed total nitrogen of 10 mg/L, and design flow of
0.080 mgd.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -4-
Wastewater Collection System
 19. The Discharger’s collection system is comprised of about four miles of gravity sewer
lines and one mile of force main. There are eight lift stations (Pump Station No. 1
through 7). Pump Station Nos. 1 through 5 are on the east side of the golf course.
Pump Station No. 6 is on the west side of the golf course. P ump Station No. 7 is at the
intersection of Ranchito Drive and Carrillo Way and P ump Station No. 8 is at the
intersection of Ranchito Drive and Gaza Way
 20. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Resources Control Board (hereafter State Water Board) adopted a General Sanitary Sewer System Order (State Water Resources
Control Board Order No. 2006- 0003 -DWQ, Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems ) (the “General Order”). The General Order
requires that all public agencies that own or operate sanitary sewers systems greater
than one mile in length comply with the General Order. The Discharger’s collection
system is greater than on mile in length. The Discharger has applied for, and is covered by, the General Order.

Site-Specific Conditions
 21. Supply water in the Lake Don Pedro area is provided by the Lake Don Pedro Community Services District. Source water supply is a combination of surface and groundwater. Surface water is obtained from Lake McClure and g roundwater is
obtained from the Ranchito Well. Based on data in the 2011 Consumer Confidence Report, quality of source water is as follows.

Table 2. Source Water Quality

 TDS EC Sodium Chloride Hardness Manganese Sulfate
 mg/L umhos/cm mg/L mg/L mg/L mg/L mg/L
Ranchito Well 238 416 23 3.44 74 18 43
Surface Water 52 79 2.7 16
 22. The nearest surface water bodies are Browns Creek and Lake McClure. Browns Creek is tributary to Dry Creek, which is tributary to Merced River. Surface runoff during rainfall events flows towards Ranchito Road and then drains to the south of the WWTF
into Browns Creek .
 23. According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency maps (Map Numbers 06043C0100B and 06043C0225B) the WWTF and Use Area are in Zone X. This area is
outside the one percent annual chance floodplain.
 24. Soils in the vicinity of the WWTF are Auburn loam and Daulton, according to the Web Soil Survey published by the United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -5-
Conservation Service. Auburn loam and Daulton have a land capability classification of 4e and 6e, respectively. Soils with “Class 4” classification have very severe limitations
that restrict the choice of plants or require very careful management, or both. Soils with “Class 6” soils have severe limitations that m ake them generally unsuitable for
cultivation and that restrict their use mainly to pasture, rangeland, forestland, or wildlife habitat. The subclass “e” indicates that the main problem with these soils is the hazard
of erosion unless close -growing plant cover is maintained. The susceptibility to erosion
and past erosion damage are the major soil -related factor s affecting the soils that are
assigned this s ubclass letter.
 25. The WWTF and Use Area are in an arid climate characterized by dry summers and mild
winters. The rainy season generally extends from November through April. Average annual pan evaporation in the discharge area is about 83 inches, according to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Technical Report NWS 34, Mean
Monthly, Seasonal, and Annual Pan Evaporation for the United States . The average
annual precipitation in the discharge area is about 20 inches based on 62 years of data
collected by the Western Regional Climate Center.
 26. Land uses in the vicinity of the WWTF consist of native vegetation and surface waters (i.e., Lake McClure, Lake Don Pedro Reservoir, and Browns Creek ). There is a golf
course east and residential development to the northeast of the WWTF , according to the
Mariposa County 1998 Land Use Map published by the Department of Water Resources (DWR).

Groundwater Considerations

27. The WWTF does not have a groundwater monitoring network. According to the 2002
Mariposa County General Plan, the depth to groundwater in Mariposa County ranges from 2 ft to 30 ft below ground surfaced (bgs) based on potable wells sampled in 1971.
 28. Based on Well Completion Reports from wells on the golf course, approximately
1,200 feet from the new WWTF , groundwater can be found at depths ranging from 20 ft
to 125 ft bgs. The Well C ompletion Reports also indicates the lithology near the WWTF
consists of about one to ten feet of topsoil before encountering schist and slate bedrock .
 29. Groundwater movement is affected by fractures, faults, joints, and intrusions in the
bedrock .
 30. Lake Don Pedro Community Services District has a supply well ( “Ranchito Well” )
approximately two miles northeast of the WWTF. The Ranchito Well has a total depth of
300 ft bgs and is s creened from 65 to 125 ft bgs. Based on five groundwater samples
taken in 2002, 2003, 2003, 2009, and 2012, groundwater in the area is of good quality
with EC ranging from 138 umhos/cm to 416 umhos/cm, TDS ranging from 220 mg/L to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -6-
226 mg/L, nitrate as NO 3 from 3 mg/L to 4 mg/L, chloride from 2 mg/L to 6 mg/L, and
sodium from 7 mg/L to 32 mg/L.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Water Quality Objectives

31. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River
Basins, Fourth Edition, revised October 2011 (the “Basin Plan ”) designates beneficial
uses, establishes narrative and numerical water quality objectives, contains
implementation plans and policies for protecting all waters of the Basi n, and
incorporates, by reference, plans and policies of the State Water Board. In accordance
with Water Code section 13263(a), these waste discharge requirements implement the
Basin Plan.
 32. The WWTF is in the Kassenbaum Flat Hydrologic Area (No. 537.10) of the Merced River
Hydrologic Unit , as depicted on hydrologic maps prepared by State Water Resources
Control Board. Local drainage is to Browns Creek . The Basin Plan does not specifically
identify beneficial uses for B rowns Creek, but does identify present and potential uses
for Merced River to which Browns Creek, via Dry Creek, is tributary. The beneficial uses
as stated in the Basin Plan, are municipal and domestic supply ; agricultural supply ,
including irrigation ; hydropower generation; water contact recreation, including canoeing
and rafting ; non-contact water recreation ; warm and cold freshwater habitat; and wildlife
habitat.
 33. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as municipal
and domestic supply, agricultural supply, industrial service and industrial process
supply.
 34. The Basin Plan includes a water quality objective for chemical constituents that at a
minimum, require s waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the
Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs) specified in Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations ( “Title 22” ). The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board
may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.
 35. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for Chemical Constituents,
Taste and Odors, and Toxicity. The Toxicity objective, in summary, requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic substances in concentrations that produce
detrimental physiological responses in human, plant, animal, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site -specific evaluation of those constituents that have the potential to impact water
quality and beneficial uses.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -7-
Antidegradation Analysis

36. State Water Board Resolution No. 68- 16 (“Policy with Respect to Maintaining High
Quality Water of the State”) (the “Antidegradation Policy” ) prohibits degradation of
groundwater unless it has been shown that:

a. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state
and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives;

b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial
uses;

c. The discharger employs B est Practicable Treatment or Control (BPTC) to minimize
degradation; and

d. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state .

37. The WWTF only treats domestic wastewater from a residential development ; there are
no industrial dischargers connected to the WWTF . Source water is of good quality and
the minimal increase in organics, nutrients, and salts from domestic use will not cause
wastewater to exceed water quality objectives. The Discharger also provides treatment
of its wastewater to secondary disinfected recycled water standards , which exceeds the
requirements of Title 22 for recycled wastewater applied to the Use Are a. Proposed low
flows will result in less than one- inch per day of recycled water being applied to the Use
Area. BOD and TN loading rates to the Use Area will be 0.14 lbs/acres/day and
60.91 lbs/acre/yr, respectively, which are below agronomic rates. Based on this , the
discharge is not expected to cause exceedances of water quality objectives nor impair
beneficial uses.
 38. This Order includes extensive influent, and effluent monitoring requirements to verify
that the discharge does not cause violations of water quality objectives or impairment of beneficial uses.

39. The WWTF described in Findings 8 through 18, will provide treatment and control of the
discharge that incorporates:

a. Secondary treatment of wastewater;

b. Recycling of wastewater for crop irrigation;

c. An operation and maintenance manual;

d. Lined storage pond to limit the amount of wastewater that percolates to groundwater.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -8-
e. Concrete lined sludge drying beds with decanting structures to minimize percolation
to groundwater ;

f. Certified operators to ensure proper operation and maintenance; and

g. Source water, and discharge monitoring.

The Board finds that the preceding treatment and control measures represent BPTC for this discharge.
 40. Generally, limited degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents of concern (e.g., EC and nitrate) released with discharge fr om a municipal wastewater
utility after effective source control, treatment, and control is consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the state. The technology, energy, and waste management advantages of municipal utility service far exceed any bene fits derived from a
community otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impacts on water quality will be substantially less. The economic prosperity of valley communities and associated industry is of maximum benefi t to the people of the
state, and therefore provides sufficient reason to accommodate planned growth and allow for limited groundwater degradation.

Water Recycling Regulatory Considerations
 41. Undisinfected domestic wastewater contains human pathogens that are typically
measured using total or fecal coliform organism as indicator organisms. DPH has
primary statewide responsibility for protecting public health, has established statewide criteria in Title 22, section 60301 et seq. for the use of recycled wat er.
 42. A 199 6 Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between DPH and the State Water Board
on the use of recycled water establishes basic principles relative to the agencies and the regional water boards. In addition, the MOA allocates primary areas of
responsibility and authority between these agencies, and provides for methods and mechanisms necessary to assure ongoing, continuous future coordination of activities relative to the use of recycled water in California. This Order implements the applicabl e
portions of the Title 22 water recycling regulation in accordance with the MOA.

43. On 3 February 2009, the State Water Board adopted Resolution 2009- 0011, Adoption of
a Policy for Water Quality Control for Recycled Water (Recycled Water Policy). The
Recyc led Water Policy promotes the use of recycled water to achieve sustainable local
water supplies and reduce greenhouse gases.
 44. On 23 April 2009, the Central Valley Water Board adopted Resolution R5- 2009- 0028, In
Support of Regionalization, Reclamation, Recy cling and Conservation for Wastewater
Treatment Plant . Resolution R5- 2009- 0028 encourages water recycling, water
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2013- 0062
MARIPOSA COUNTY
DON PEDRO SEWER ZONE 1
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY

 -9-
conservation, and regionalization of wastewater treatment facilities. It requires the municipal wastewater treatment agencies to document:
a. Efforts to promote new or expanded wastewater recycling opportunities and programs;
b. Water conservation measures; and
c. Regional wastewater management opportunities and solutions (e.g., regionalization).
 45. Title 22, section 60323, requires recyclers of treat ed municipal wastewater to submit an
engineering report detailing the use of recycled water, contingency plans, and
safeguards. The Discharger submitted a Title 22 Engineering Report to DPH on
March 2005 and supplemental information on May 2005. By lette r dated 20 May 2005,
DPH conditionally approved the Title 22 Engineering Report , requiring the Discharger to
satisfy certain provisions. These provisions include: implementing all of the responses
in the Kennedy/Jenks letter dated 11 May 2005 and/or to include these in a final Title 22
Engineering Report and to submit a new or amended Title 22 Engineering Report to
DPH if the Discharger proposes changes to the project. A p rovision requiring the
Discharger to submit a letter discussing how it has satisfi ed the provisions in the
20 May 2005 DPH letter is included in this Order.

Other Regulatory Considerations
 46. Based on the threat and complexity of the discharge, the WWTF is determined to be classified as 2B as defined below:

a. Category 2 threat to water q uality: “ Those discharges of waste that could impair the
designated beneficial uses of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

