consists of two clay -lined aerated lagoons
(Pond s 1A and 1B) and two partially aerated facultative/ storage ponds (Pond 2 and
Pond 3). It is unclear if Ponds 2 and 3 are lined . The City’s treated effluent is disinfected
using gas chlorination prior to commingling with Leprino’s effluent. The Lemoore WWTF
has a designed treatment capacity of 2.5 mgd, so the increased flows u p to 2.0 mgd is
not expected to significantly impact the existing treatment system .
Process wastewater from Leprino’s two facilities is combined in equalization tanks and
conveyed through the Leprino treatment facility adjacent to the Lemoore WWTF . The
Leprino treatment system utilizes two High -Rate Activated Sludge (HRAS) reactors, two
Dissolved Air Flotation (DAF) units, and three Sequencing Batch Reactors (SBRs).
The HRAS system is used to remove 7 0% or more of soluble chemical oxygen demand
(COD)/biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) . The DAF units act as clarifiers to remove
activated sludge from the effluent stream and pump it back into the HRAS reactors. The
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2024-0007 IS.2
CITY OF LEMOORE AND LEPRINO FOODS COMPANY
RIVER RANCH WATER PRO JECT
KINGS COUNTY
INFORMATION SHEET
SBRs are used to remove additional BOD, and for nitrification and denitrification . The
wastewater then goes through final filtration before it is discharged to an existing pipeline
where it is combined with the City’s disinfected sanitary effluent. Leprino’s treatment
system also includes two double lined facultative lagoons (clay liner overlain by an 80 -mil
HDPE synthetic liner) used for off -spec wastewater and wasted solids , if needed .
An analysis by The Probst Group determined that Leprino’s treatment system had
sufficient capacity to handl e the increase flows up to 5.0 mgd; however, the increased
hydraulic loading w ill likely result in decreased retention time and suspended sol ids
remov al leading to high er BOD and nitrogen concentrations in Leprino’s effluent .
However , with the expanded LAA actual loading rates will remain within acceptable limits
consistent with the existing WDRs .
A wastewater treatment flow schematic showing wastewater flows from the Lemoore
WWTF and Leprino is included in Attachment C of the Order. At the River Ranch
Property , the combined effluent will be discharged into the irrigation canal system and
blended with other irrigation water supplies before being applied to crops.
Average wastewater quality for the City ’s treated domestic wastewater , Leprino ’s treated
process wastewater , and the combined effluent from October 2019 through September
2022 is presented in Table 1 below:
TABLE 1. Average Wastewater Quality

===PLANNED CHANGES===

