FACILITY INFORMATION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of the City of Colfax
and serves a population of approximately 2,000. The design average dry weather
flow capacity of the Facility is 0.65 MGD when the volume of water stored in Pond 3
is greater than or equal to 10 MG on 1 July or 0.275 MGD when the volume of water
in Pond 3 is less than 10 MG on 1 July .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) . The treatment plant unit processes
include :
· Fine screens,
· Influent pumping station to equalize incoming flow,
· Two e qualization/sedimentation/biological oxidation ponds ( Pond 1 and
Pond 2 each with a 4-inch thick bottom, 3 -inch thick side, wire mesh,
gunite lin ing). The h ydraulic conductivit y for the liners is not currently
known.
· Emergency storage /equalization pond ( Pond 3 a 60-mil, high-density
polyethylene [HDPE ] geomembrane emergency storage pond). The
design hydraulic conductivit y for the liner is less than 1 x 10-6 cm/s .
· Biological treatment facility (secondary clarification, aeration basins,
nitrification, and denitrification),
· Alkalinity and BOD adjustment,
· Aerated digesters,
· Tertiary filtration,
· Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection, and
· Biosolids processing facilities.
A Suspended Air Floatation (SAF) u nit is planned to be installed at the Facility
during this NOA cycle. A flow schematic showing the planned SAF unit is
shown as Figure B -2 in Appendix B. Discharge point 001 is located
downstream of the UV system.
The design flow for the biological treatment facility is 0.65 MGD. Ponds 1 and
2 have a combined capacity of approximately 4.6 MG. When flows are greater
than 0.65 MGD, flows are diverted to Pond 1, Pond 2, and/or Pond 3 until
flows subside enough to treat at the biological treatment facility. Pond 1 is
used seasonally as a storm capacity basin, normally during peak or surge
flows , and is emptied out once flow rates drop below 0.40 MGD. Flows under
0.65 MGD are diverted to Pond 2 when necessary . Pond 2 is in continuous
year-round use , and is the main pond receiving process water such as
decanted press water, plant diversion water, onsite stormwater collection, and
primary effluent that has not been sent to the activated sludge process .
Pond 3 is a storage pond with a capacity of 59.7 MG with 2 feet of freeboard
and is necessary in the wet season to handle excess infiltration and inflow
(I&I). At times Pond 3 may also contain precipitation, raw sewage , secondary
treated wastewater, and tertiary treated wastewater. The dam creating Pond
3 is classified as a jurisdictional dam by the California Department of Water
City of Colfax 17 October 2023
Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2023 -0025 -001
- 4 -Resources Division of Safety of Dams. Storm water is conveyed around the
Facility , with the exception of storm water runoff from the hillside directly
above Pond 3, and discharged to an unnamed tributary of Smuthers Ravine .
Since the Facility has a design flow under 1 MGD and does not have an
approved pretre atment program per 40 Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.)
part 403 , coverage under the Statewide NPDES General Permit for Strom
Water Dischargers Associated with Industrial Acti vities is not required.
A 60-mil, HDPE liner was installed at Pond 3 in Januar y 2013 . The design
leakage rate for the liner is zero gallons per day . The natural seepage of
groundwater surrounding Pond 3 pass es beneath the liner and daylights at
the base of the dam , flowing through a v -notch weir f or flow measurement
and is the n discharge s to the unnamed tributary of Smuthers Ravine. Pond 3
collects storm water runoff from the hillside directly above it through storm
grates . All water from Pond 3 is sent back through the tertiary treatment
system for processing prior to discharge to surface water. All water
discharged to surface water from the treatment system is tertiary treated
wastewater.
It is necessary to dewater Pond 3 during dry months in preparation for the wet
season. After average precipitation -years , Pond 3 will typical ly be dewatered
by 30 June. However, after a higher -than-average precipitation year it may be
necessary to continue dewatering efforts through October and the tertiary
treatment plant may be operating near capacity for short periods. Because
the Average Dr y Weather Flow Prohibition (see Section IV.E) is based on the
average daily flow over three consecutive dry weather months, these short -
term elevated flows should not result in exceed ance s.
2. Flow. The Facility was originally designed to provide a tertiary level of
treatment for up to 0.5 MGD and was later approved by the Central Valley
Water Board to increase the “engineered wet weather design flow” to 0.8
MGD, based on a completed stress test. Prior to 2018 , the Central Valley
Water Board permitted the Facility to discharge up to 0.275 MGD, based on
the average daily flow over three consecutive dry weather months of tertiary
level treated effluent. Order R5 -2018 -0012 increased the ADWF from 0.275
MGD to 0.65 MG D, when 10 MG or more is stored in Pond 3 as of 1 July to
facilitate the dewatering of Pond 3 and not to accommodate increases in dry
weather influent flowrate to the WWTP.
A water balance and an antidegradation analysis was conducted in 2017
concluded that increasing the discharge rates during high precipitation events
could alleviate storage capacity issues. The 2017 Antidegradation analysis
assessed reducing I&I, increasing the treatment volume of the Facility, and
increasing the ADWF discharge volume. Both the 2017 water balance and an
antidegradation analysis concluded that a n increase in ADWF discharge
capacity from 0.275 MGD to 0.65 MGD w ould not affect downstream
beneficial uses and would not cause further exceedances of applicable water
quality obje ctives and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

