FACILITY INFORMATION
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility that provides wastewater treatment
service to the City of Lodi and the San Joaquin County Flag City Service Area , with a
City of Lodi 1 April 2025
White Slough Water Pollution Control Facility R5-2023 -0025-010
- 3 -total population of approximately 67,000. The current design average dry weather flow
capacity of the Facility is 8.5 million gallons per day (MGD). The Facility is permitted to
discharge 8.5 MGD of tertiary treated wastewater to Dredger Cut within the
Sacramento -San Joaquin Delta.
Typically , during the summer months (mid -June through early -September), secondary
treated undisinfected municipal wastewater is pumped to the Facility’s 40 -acres of
unlined storage ponds and is used to irrigate the Discharger’s agricultural fields.
Additionally, secondary treated effluent and untreated industrial wastewater are used to
irrigate fodder, fiber , or feed crops . The Discharger also supplies tertiary treated
municipal wastewater (Recycled Water) to Northern California Power Agency (NCPA)
and San Joaquin County (SJCo) Vector Control District. This NOA only regulates the
discharge of tertiary treated wastewater to Dredger Cut. Separate Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDR) Order R5 -2007 -0113 -01 regulates discharges to land and
reclamation activities.
The Discharger owns and operates two separate wastewater collection systems, one to
collect municipal wastewater and another to collect industrial wastewater. The industrial
wastewater collection system collects primarily food processing wastewater from Pa cific
Coast Producers cannery and is not treated through the Facility described below. The
wastewater from the industrial collection system is either held in the Facility’s storage
ponds (40 -acres) or sent directly to the agricultural fields for irrigation under WDR Order
R5-2007 -0113 -01. The municipal wastewater collection system has 23,000 service
laterals and consists of 178 miles of collection mains, 2,880 manholes, 7 lift stations,
and 5 miles of trunk line delivering wastewater to the Facility for tr eatment and disposal.
Dischargers to the domestic trunk line include a present population of approximately
67,000, businesses, and some industries within the City of Lodi. Flows from the San
Joaquin Flag City Service Area are included in the City’s municip al flows.
The Facility provides full nitrification and denitrification for nitrogen removal and uses
tertiary filtration followed by ultraviolet light (UV) for disinfection. The components of the
treatment system at the Facility include:
·headworks with influent screens;
·mechanical grit removal;
·primary sedimentation;
·biological treatment by activated sludge, including nitrification and denitrification;
·secondary sedimentation;
·tertiary treatment with cloth media filtration; and
·UV disinfection.
Sludge is thickened with a dissolved air floatation thickener. Thickened solids are
anaerobically digested and stored in two lined sludge stabilization pond s. The stabilized
solids are dewatered by either a rotary or screw press and applied to the agricultural
fields between cropping cycles per WDR Order R5 -2007 -0113 -01.
II.