existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the CEQA, in accordance wit h California Code of Regulations, title 14,
section 15301.
59. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a ve sted right to continue the discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 15
Public Notice
60. All the above and the supplemental informati on and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference her ein, were considered in establishing the
following conditions of discharge.
61. The Discharger and interested agencies and per sons have been notified of the intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportuni ty to submit their written views and
recommendations.
62. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public meeting.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order R5-01-095 is rescinded except for the purpose of
enforcement, and pursuant to Water Code sect ions 13263 and 13267, the City of Plymouth, its
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions , and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Prov isions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in the
Findings is prohibited.
4. Discharge of waste classified as “hazardous ” under California Code of Regulations, title
23, section 2521, or “designated,” as defined in Water Code section 13173 is prohibited.
5. Surfacing of treated wastew ater outside of the treatment ponds, storage reservoir or
LAAs is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications
1. The wastewater flow rate shall not exceed any of the following limits:
Influent Flow Measurement Influent Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 82.5 MG
Average Daily Dry Weather Flow 2, 3 0.185 mgd
1. Based on the calendar year (January through December).
2. Dry weather is defined as the months of July through September, inclusive.
3. As determined by the total influent flow for the dry weather period divided by 92.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 16
2. Neither the treatment nor the discharge of wastewater shall cause a nuisance or
condition of pollution as defined by the Water Code section 13050.
3. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as
fences, signs, or acceptable alternatives.
4. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released
or discharged, in a concentration or in a ma ss that causes violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.
5. Objectionable odors originating at the fac ility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
of the property at an intensit y that creates or threatens to create nuisance conditions.
6. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification B.5, the dissolved
oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall not be less than
1.0 mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive sampli ng events, the Discharger shall report the
findings to the Central Valley Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.
7. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
8. All wastewater treatm ent and storage ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. Example managem ent strategies include,
a. An erosion control program shall be im plemented to ensure that small coves and
irregularities are not cr eated around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
9. All treatment, storage, and disposal facilit ies shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or was hout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
10. The facility shall have sufficient treat ment, storage, and disposal capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow, des ign seasonal precipitation, and ancillary
inflow and infiltration during the winter months . Design seasonal precipitation shall be
based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed
monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
11. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the integrity of
containment levees and prevent overtoppi ng and/or structural failure. Unless a
California-registered civil engineer certif ies (based on design, construction, and
conditions of operation and maintenance) that less freeboard is adequate, the operating
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 17
freeboard in any pond shall never be less than two feet as measured vertically from the
water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
12. On or about 15 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply wit h Discharge Specifications B.10 and B.11.
C. Land Application Area Specifications
1. Irrigation runoff (tailwater) and storm wate r runoff shall be completely contained within
the designated LAAs or be returned to the WW TF, and shall not enter any surface water
drainage course.
2. Fields 2, 3 and 6, which have tailwater/storm water containment berms, may be used for
year-round land application in compliance with LAA Specification C.5.
3. For Fields 1, 4 and 5, the application of wastewater is limited to the period of 1 April to 1
November . If the Discharger builds berms or ditches to control tailwater and storm
water runoff, land application on Fields 1, 4 and 5 may occur throughout the wet season upon approval of the report described in Provis ion G.2. by the Executive Officer.
4. Application of effluent shall comply with the following setback requirements:
Setback Definition
1 Minimum Irrigation
Setback (feet)
Edge of LAAs to property boundary 50
Edge of LAAs to public road 50
Edge of LAAs to irrigation well 100
Edge of LAAs to domestic well 100
Edge of LAAs to manmade or natural surface
water drainage course 2 or spring 50
1. As defined by the wetted ar ea produced during irrigation.
2. Excluding ditches used exclusively for tailwater return and drainages that do not discharge to
surface waters.
5. The volume of treated wastewater appli ed to the LAAs on any single day shall not
exceed reasonable agronomic rates based on the vegetation grown, pre-discharge soil
moisture conditions, and weather conditions.
6. The discharge of treated wastewater to t he LAAs shall be at reasonable agronomic rates
designed to maximize uptake and breakdown of wa ste constituents in the root zone and
minimize the percolation of waste constituents below the root zone.
7. Irrigation of effluent shall not be perform ed within 24 hours of a forecasted precipitation
event, during precipitation, within 24 hours a fter any measurable precipitation event, or
when the ground is saturated.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011 -0092
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
 18
8. Spray irrigation of effluent is prohi bited when wind velocities exceed 30 mph.
9. The LAAs shall be managed to prevent br eeding of mosquitoes. In particular:
a. There shall be no standing water 72 hours after irrigation ceases; b. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes
shall not be used to store effluent.
D. Solids/Sludge Disposal Specifications
1. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during prelim inary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that
will not be subject to further treatment at the fa cility. Biosolids refers to sludge that has
undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to federal and
state regulations as a soil amendment for agric ulture, silviculture, horticulture, and land
recycling.
2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, and ponds as needed to
ensure optimal plant operation.
3. Treatment and storage of sludge generated by the WWTF shall be confined to its
property, and shall be conducted in a manner that precludes infiltration of waste
constituents into soils in a mass or at c oncentrations that will violate the Groundwater
Limitations of this Order.
4. Any storage of residual sludge, solid wast e, and biosolids at the facility shall be
temporary, and the waste shall be controll ed and contained in a manner that minimizes
leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
at concentrations that will violate the Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
5. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid wast e shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent with Div ision 2 of Title 27. Removal for further
treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal sites operated in accordance with valid waste
discharge requirements issued by a California Wa ter Board will satisfy this specification.
This does not preclude land application of bios olids at the WWTF site in accordance with
another Order (i.e., general or indivi dual Waste Discharge Requirements).
6. Use and disposal of biosolids shall co mply with the self-implementing Federal
regulations of 40 CFR section 503, which are subject to enforcement by the U.S. EPA,
not the Central Valley Water Board. If duri ng the life of this Order, the state accepts
primacy for implementation of 40 CFR secti on 503, the Central Valley Water Board may
also initiate enforcement where appropriate.
E.