Facility Information

1. The names , certificate grades, and general responsibilities of all persons in charge of
wastewater treatment and disposal.

2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency
and routine situations.

3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (Standard Provision C.4).

4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the dates
when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.

5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years.

6. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have
occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the
disch arge into full compliance with this Order.

Biosolids/Sludge Monitoring

1. Annual production to tals in dry tons or cubic yards.

2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one m ethod is used, include the percentage disposed of by each
method.


a. For landfill disposal , include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order number
of WDRs that regulate it.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM O RDER R5-2016 -0079
LATON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

 -7-

b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.

c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration occurs,
the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of ash, and the
name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).

d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs
that regulate it.

3. Include the results of monitoring specified on pages 4 and 5.


The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.


 Original signed by
 Ordered by: ____________________________________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

14 October 2016
 _____________________________________
 (Date)

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM O RDER R5-2016 -0079
LATON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

 -8-
GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
8-Hour Composite Samples shall be a composite of grab samples consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per m onth during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per year)
during non- consecutive months.
Quarterly Samples shall be collecte d at least once per calendar quarter. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April, July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per year).
Unless other wise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in April and
October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise specified or
approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L milliliters [of solids] per liter
ug/L Micrograms per liter
umhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium Nitrate
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of cation/anion
balance
INFORMATION SHEET

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0079
LATON COMMUNITY SERVICE S DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY
FRESNO COUNTY

Background
The Laton Community Services District ( District ) owns and operates a wastewater treatment facility
(WWTF) that produces undisinfected secondary treated wastewater . The WWTF consists of a
grinder, two lift pumps, an aeration basin, si x evaporation/percolation ponds, emergency basin, two
concrete lined sludge drying beds , and surrounding bermed land owned by the District which has
been utilized for discharge in the pas t during pond maintenance activities . The Board previously
regulated the discharge from the WWTF under Waste Discharge Requirements Order 85 -253.

The WWTF serves a population of approximately 1,800. Wastewater gravity flows to the WWTF
where it receives secondary treatment prior to disposal in four (now six) evaporation/percolation
ponds .

Sludge and Wastewater Disposal
Waste s ludge is discharged to two concrete lined drying beds, and then stockpiled onsite before until
there is a sufficient quantity to economically remove it.

From the collection system , influent wastewater flows through a grinder then is lifted via two lift pumps
for activated sludge treatment in a continuously aerated basin. After treatment in the aeration basin
wastewater flows to the clarifier where solids settle out and supernatant flows over the clarifier weirs
to a distribution box where the effluent discharge is directed to the evaporation/percolation ponds.
 The Distric t removes surface duckweed from the evaporation/percolation ponds using a HIPPO
device. Pumped duckweed is collected in a sock or retention basin. As part of this process a small
amount of water is pumped onto adjacent District owned fields.

Additional Groundwater Considerations
The WWTF is in the Lower Kings Hydrologic Area (No. 551 .80) of the South Valley Hydrologic Unit,
as depicted on hydrologic maps prepared by State Water Resources Control Board in August 1986 .
 Limited published groundwater quality data from the United States Geological Survey (USGS) shows
regional wells contain nitrate as nitrogen concentrations below the MCL of 10 mg/L (results range
from 0.2-9.94 mg/L). The data also shows EC ranges from 146 to 383 umhos/cm .

Revised Moni toring and Reporting Program 85 -253 required the Discharger to develop a monitoring
well network at the WWTF. A 14 May 1992 Water Board letter removed the requirement to install a groundwater monitoring network due to recharge from the Kings River and par allel unlined canals on
either side of the WWTF introducing flow variables to the groundwater environment that are beyond
the scope and intent of the MRP.

Regional groundwater underlying the area is first -encountered at about 130 feet below ground surface
(bgs) and flows to the north west; according to the DWR Groundwater Information Center (GIC)
Interactive map using data from Spring 2016 .


INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0079 -2-
LATON COMMUNITY SERVICE S DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY
FRESNO COUNTY

Additional Regulatory Considerations
The Basin plan states that the evaporation of reclai mable wastewater is not an acceptable permanent
disposal method where the opportunity exists to replace an existing use of proposed use of fresh
water with reclaimed water.

The new Order contains a Provision that requir es the District to submit a demonstration that it has
determined the current land uses for each parcel within a (1) mile radius of the WWTF (including
District -owned parcels), identified potential uses of recycled water for each parcel, and appropriately
informed land owners and form ally requested their consideration of accepting WWTF effluent for a
recycled water project. The Discharger shall provide an explanation to the Board if no potential uses
of recycled water are identified for a particular parcel. Notification of landowners must include
pertinent effluent monitoring results and water quality goals for the recycled water uses identified. If the Discharger identifies a feasible recycled water project, the Discharger shall submit a Report of
Waste Discharge and arrange for pre paration of a Title 22 Engineering Report in accordance with
Title 22, section 60323, and a copy of this report shall be provided to State Water Resources Control
Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW). This provision shall be considered satisfied upon s ubmittal
by the Discharger of a complete Report of Waste Discharge and a letter from DDW determining the corresponding Title 22 Engineering Report is complete, or when the Executive Officer concludes that
the Discharger has provided sufficient justification for not using effluent for recycled water.

Legal Effect of Rescission of Prior WDRs or Orders on Existing Violations
The Board’s rescission of prior waste discharge requirements and/or monitoring and reporting orders does not extinguish any violations that may have occurred during the time those waste discharge
requirements or orders were in effect . The Central Valley Water Board reserves the right to take
enforcement actions to address violations of prior prohibitions, limitations, specifications,
requirements, or provisions of rescinded waste discharge re quirements or orders as allowed by law.


Drawing Reference:
Google Earth
Map Data: 2016

SITE MAP
ORDER R5 -2016- 0079
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
LATON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
FRESNO COUNTY
ATTACHMENT A Pond 1 Pond 2
Pond 3
Pond 4 New
Pond 5 New
Pond 6
Kings River WWTP Drying Beds
0
 100
 250
 500
 Approximate Scale in Feet





Wetwell w/ Grinder
Aerobic Basin
Clarifier
Evaporation/Percolation
Ponds Sludge Drying Beds Domestic Influent
NOT TO SCALE Waste
Sludge
EFF-001 INF-001
Dried Sludge
Stockpiled for
Offsite Disposal

PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM

ORDER R5-2016-0079
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
LATON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY
FRESNO COUNTY
ATTACHMENT B Symbol Description
Sampling Points
INF-001
EFF-001 Wastewater
Sludge
Influent
Effluent
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATE R QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

STANDARD PROVISIONS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
FOR
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS

1 March 1991

A. General Provisions:

1. The requirements prescribed herein do not author ize the commission of any act causing injury to
the property of another, or protec t the Discharger from liabilities under federal, state, or local
laws. This Order does not convey any pr operty rights or exclusive privileges.
 2. The provisions of this Order are severable. If any provision of this Or der is held invalid, the
remainder of this Order shall not be affected.
 3. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this Order may be terminated or modified for cause,
including, but not limited to: a. Violation of any term or c ondition contained in this Order;
 b. Obtaining this Order by misrepre sentation, or failure to disclo se fully all relevant facts;

c. A change in any condition that results in either a temporary or permanent need to reduce or
eliminate the authorized discharge;
 d. A material change in the character, location, or volume of discharge.
 4. Before making a material change in the char acter, location, or volum e of discharge, the
discharger shall file a new Report of Waste Di scharge with the Regiona l Board. A material
change includes, but is not limited to, the following: a. An increase in area or depth to be used for solid waste disposal beyond that specified in
waste discharge requirements.
 b. A significant change in disposal method, locatio n or volume, e.g., change from land disposal
to land treatment.
 c. The addition of a major industrial, muni cipal or domestic wast e discharge facility.
 d. The addition of a major industrial waste disc harge to a discharge of essentially domestic
sewage, or the addition of a ne w process or product by an indus trial facility resulting in a
change in the character of the waste.

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -2-
Waste Discharge to Land


5. Except for material determined to be confid ential in accordance with California law and
regulations, all reports prepared in accordance with terms of this Order shall be available for
public inspection at the offices of the Board. Data on waste discharges, water quality, geology,
and hydrogeology shall not be considered confidential.
 6. The discharger shall take all r easonable steps to minimize any adve rse impact to the waters of the
state resulting from noncom pliance with this Order. Such steps shall include accelerated or
additional monitoring as necessary to determine the nature and impact of the noncompliance.
 7. The discharger shall maintain in good working order and operate as effi ciently as possible any
facility, control system, or monitoring device installed to achieve compliance with the waste
discharge requirements.
8. The discharger shall permit repr esentatives of the Regional Board (hereafter Board) and the State
Water Resources Control Board, upon presentations of credentials, to:
 a. Enter premises where wastes are treated, stor ed, or disposed of and facilities in which any
records are kept,
 b. Copy any records required to be kept under terms and conditions of this Order,
 c. Inspect at reasonable hours, monitoring equipment required by this Order, and
 d. Sample, photograph and video tape any discha rge, waste, waste management unit, or
monitoring device.

9. For any electrically operated equipment at the site, the failure of which would cause loss of
control or containment of waste materials, or viol ation of this Order, the discharger shall employ
safeguards to prevent loss of control over wastes . Such safeguards may include alternate power
sources, standby generators, re tention capacity, operating pr ocedures, or other means.
 10. The fact that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in Order to
maintain compliance with this Order shall not be a defense for the discharger’s violations of the
Order.
 11. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall create a condition of nuisance or pollution as
defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
 12. The discharge shall remain within the designated dis posal area at all times.

B. General Reporting Requirements:

1. In the event the discharger does not comply or will be unable to comply with any prohibition or
limitation of this Order for any reason, the disc harger shall notify the Board by telephone at
(916) 464-3291 [Note: Current phone numbers for all three Regional Board offices may be
found on the internet at http:// www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5/contact_us.] as soon as it or its agents
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -3-
Waste Discharge to Land


have knowledge of such noncompliance or potentia l for noncompliance, a nd shall confirm this
notification in writing within two weeks . The written notification shall state the nature, time and
cause of noncompliance, and shall incl ude a timetable for corrective actions.

2. The discharger shall have a plan for preven ting and controlling accidental discharges, and for
minimizing the effect of such events. This plan shall: a. Identify the possible sources of accidenta l loss or leakage of wastes from each waste
management, treatment, or disposal facility.
 b. Evaluate the effectiveness of present waste management/treatment units and operational
procedures, and identify needed changes of contingency plans.

c. Predict the effectiveness of the proposed changes in waste management/treatment facilities
and procedures and provide an implementati on schedule containing interim and final dates
when changes will be implemented.
 The Board, after review of the plan, may establis h conditions that it deems necessary to control
leakages and minimize their effects.
3. All reports shall be signed by persons identified below:
 a. For a corporation
: by a principal executive officer of at least the level of senior
vice-president.
 b. For a partnership or sole proprietorship
: by a general partner or the proprietor.
 c. For a municipality, state, federal or other public agency
: by either a principal executive
officer or ranking elected or appointed official.
 d. A duly authorized representative of a person designated in 3a, 3b or 3c of this requirement if;

(1) the authorization is made in writing by a person described in 3a , 3b or 3c of this
provision;
(2) the authorization specifies either an individual or a posit ion having responsibility for the
overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the position of plant
manager, operator of a waste management unit, superintendent, or position of equivalent
responsibility. (A duly authorized representa tive may thus be eith er a named individual
or any individual occupying a named position); and
(3) the written authorizati on is submitted to the Board

STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -4-
Waste Discharge to Land


Any person signing a document under this Sec tion shall make the following certification:
 “I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the
information submitted in this document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of the those individuals immedi ately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe
that the information is true, accurate, and comp lete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment.”
4. Technical and monitoring reports specified in th is Order are requested pursuant to Section 13267
of the Water Code. Failing to furnish the re ports by the specified d eadlines and falsifying
information in the reports, are misdemeanors that may result in assessment of civil liabilities
against the discharger.

5. The discharger shall mail a copy of each monitori ng report and any other reports required by this
Order to:

California Regional Water Quality Control Board Central Valley Region 11020 Sun Center Drive, #200 Rancho Cordova, CA 95670-6114
Note: Current addresses for all three Regional Board offices may be found on the internet
at http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/rwqcb5/contact_us.
or the current address if the office relocates.

C. Provisions for Monitoring:

1. All analyses shall be made in accord ance with the latest edition of: (1) Methods for Organic
Chemical Analysis of Munici pal and Industria l Wastewater (EPA 600 Series) and (2) Test
Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste (SW 846-latest edition). The test method may be modified
subject to application and appr oval of alternate test procedures under the Code of Federal
Regulations (40 CFR 136).
 2. Chemical, bacteriological, and bioassay analysis shall be conducted at a laboratory certified for
such analyses by the State Department of Health Se rvices. In the event a certified laboratory is
not available to the discharger, analyses performed by a noncertifi ed laboratory will be accepted
provided a Quality Assurance-Quality Control Progr am is instituted by the laboratory. A manual
containing the steps followed in this program mu st be kept in the laboratory and shall be
available for inspection by Board staff. The Quality Assurance-Quality Control Program must
conform to EPA guidelines or to procedures approved by the Board.
 Unless otherwise specified, all metals shall be reported as Total Metals.
 3. The discharger shall retain re cords of all monitoring informa tion, including all calibration and
maintenance records, all or iginal strip chart recordi ngs of continuous monitoring
instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this Order, and records of all data used to
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -5-
Waste Discharge to Land


complete the application for this Order. Reco rds shall be maintained for a minimum of three
years from the date of the sample, measurement, report, or application. This period may be
extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regard ing this discharge or when
requested by the Regional Board Executive Officer. Record of monitoring in formation shall include:
 a. the date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements, b. the individual(s) who performed the sampling of the measurements,
c. the date(s) analyses were performed, d. the individual(s) who performed the analyses, e. the laboratory which performed the analysis, f. the analytical techni ques or methods used, and
g. the results of such analyses.

4. All monitoring instruments and devices used by the discharger to fulfill the prescribed
monitoring program shall be properly maintained a nd calibrated at least yearly to ensure their
continued accuracy.
 5. The discharger shall maintain a written sampli ng program sufficient to assure compliance with
the terms of this Order. A nyone performing sampling on behalf of the discharger shall be
familiar with the sampling plan.
 6. The discharger shall construct all monitoring well s to meet or exceed the standards stated in the
State Department of Water Resources Bulletin 74-81 and subsequent revisions, and shall comply
with the reporting provisions for wells re quired by Water Code S ections 13750 through 13755.22

D. Standard Conditions for Facilities Subject to California Code of Regulations, Title 23,
Division3, Chapter 15 (Chapter 15)

1. All classified waste management units shall be designed under the di rect supervision of a
California registered civil engine er or a California certified engi neering geologist. Designs shall
include a Construction Quality Assuran ce Plan, the purpose of which is to:

a. demonstrate that the waste management unit has been constructed according to the
specifications and plans as approved by the Board.
 b. provide quality control on the materials and construction practices us ed to construct the
waste management unit and prevent the use of inferior products and/or materials which do
not meet the approved design plans or specifications.

2. Prior to the discharge of waste to any classified waste manageme nt unit, a California registered
civil engineer or a California certified engineering geologist must certify that the waste
management unit meets the construction or prescriptive standards and performance goals in Chapter 15, unless an engineered a lternative has been approved by th e Board. In the case of an
engineered alternative, the regi stered civil engineer or a certif ied engineering geologist must
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -6-
Waste Discharge to Land


certify that the waste management unit has been constructed in accordance with Board-approved
plans and specifications.
 3. Materials used to construct li ners shall have appropriate physi cal and chemical properties to
ensure containment of discharged wastes ove r the operating life, closure, and post-closure
maintenance period of the waste management units.
 4. Closure of each waste management unit shall be performed under the direct supervision of a
California registered civil e ngineer or a California certi fied engineering geologist.

E. Conditions Applicable to Discharge Faciliti es Exempted from Chapter 15 Under Section 2511

1. If the discharger’s wastewater treatment plan t is publicly owned or regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission, it shall be supervised and operated by persons posse ssing certificates of
appropriate grade according to California Code of Regulations, Title 23, Division 4, Chapter 14.
 2. By-pass (the intentional divers ion of waste streams from any portion of a treatment facility,
except diversions designed to meet variable effl uent limits) is prohibited. The Board may take
enforcement action against the discharger for by-pass unless:

a. (1) By-pass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property
 damage. (Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property,
 damage to the treatment facilities that cause s them to become inoperable, or substantial
 and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to occur in the
 absence of a by-pass. Severe property da mage does not mean economic loss caused by
 delays in production); and


(2) There were no feasible alternatives to by- pass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment
facilities or retention of untreated waste. This condition is not satisfied if adequate
back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering
judgment to prevent a by-pass that would otherwise occur during normal periods of
equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; or


b. (1) by-pass is required fo r essential maintenance to assure efficient operation; and

(2) neither effluent nor receivi ng water limitations are exceeded; and
 (3) the discharger notifies th e Board ten days in advance.

The permittee shall submit notice of an unanticip ated by-pass as required in paragraph B.1.
above.
 3. A discharger that wishes to es tablish the affirmative defense of an upset (see definition in E.6
below) in an action brought for noncomplian ce shall demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs , or other evidence, that:
STANDARD PROVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -7-
Waste Discharge to Land


 a. an upset occurred and the cause(s) can be identified; b. the permitted facility was being properly operated at the time of the upset; c. the discharger submitted notice of the ups et as required in paragraph B.1. above; and
 d. the discharger complied with any remedi al measures required by waste discharge
requirements.
 In any enforcement proceeding, the discharger s eeking to establish the occurrence of an upset
has the burden of proof.
 4. A discharger whose waste flow has been increas ing, or is projected to increase, shall estimate
when flows will reach hydraulic and treatmen t capacities of its treat ment, collection, and
disposal facilities. The projections shall be made in January, based on the last three years’
average dry weather flows, peak wet weather flows and total annual flows, as appropriate. When
any projection shows that capacity of any part of th e facilities may be exceeded in four years, the
discharger shall notify the Board by 31 January .
 5. Effluent samples shall be taken downstream of the last addition of wastes to the treatment or
discharge works where a representative sample ma y be obtained prior to disposal. Samples shall
be collected at such a point and in such a ma nner to ensure a representative sample of the
discharge.
 6. Definitions
a. Upset means an exceptional incident in which there is uninte ntional and temporary
noncompliance with