1. Exis
ting Facility. The Facility is staffed and operated 24 hours per day and the
liquid treatment process consists of influent pumps, a septage receiving station,
mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers that wash and
dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, air biological treatment by
activated sludge, secondary sedimentation, nitrifying sidestream treatment for
ammonia removal, disinfection with sodium hypochlorite , and dechlorination
with sodium bisulfite . The Facility has partially -constructed and partially -
operating Primary Effluent Pump Station (PEPS) and Biological Nutrient
Removal facilit ies. Effluent can be diverted to lined emergency storage basins
(ESB’s), as needed, to meet effluent dilution, thermal, and disinfecti on
requirements or divert excess flows. Odors are controlled through stripping
towers and carbon treatment.
2. Future Fa
cility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility
will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in t his Order,
consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and
operation are as follows and differs seasonally.
The design capacity of the future Facility will remain 181 MGD. Facility
modification to date include replacement of th e existing pure oxygen biological
treatment facilities with biological nutrient removal (BNR) air activated
treatment facilities capable of removing ammonia and nitrate nitrogen. Future
addition include tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with gra nular media
filters, and the increase in the storage capacity. The Facility will continue to be
staffed and operated 24 hours per day and will consist of influent pumps,
septage receiving station, anaerobically digested material reception and
storage facility, mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers
that wash and dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, primary
effluent pumping station and peak -shaving storage facilities, BNR air activated
sludge treatment, nitrifying seq uencing batch reactor for treating high ammonia
concentration waste streams from solids storage basins and biosolids
reclamation facility, secondary sedimentation, secondary effluent screen, filter
influent pumping station, granular media filtration, disin fection with chlorine
liquid in a covered disinfection contact basin, and dechlorination with sodium
bisulfite. Compliant effluent can be diverted to the lined ESB’s, as needed, to
meet effluent dilution and thermal limits before discharge to the Sacrament o
River. Non -compliant effluent, primary influent or effluent, and raw wastewater
can be diverted to the lined ESB’s for any reason, including process upsets, or
diversions for excess flows, and returned to the Facility influent for additional
treatment. O dors are to be controlled through biological fixed media scrubbers,
scrubbing tower, chemical oxidizing towers, and carbon treatment towers .
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -02
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7The BNR activated sludge treatment facilities is designed to process up to 330
MGD. Flows in excess of 330 MGD will be stored in peak -shaving storage
facilities (ESB’s) and returned for processing through the BNR facilities when
capacity is available. All wastewater will receive advanced secondary treatment
through the BNR facilities. The tertiary filters will be desig ned to process flows
up to 217 MGD, measured as a daily average. This Order requires seasonal
disinfection requirements and the Facility will be operated differently during
each season, as follows:
a. 1 Ma
y – 31 October. The Facility will be operated to m eet Title 22 or
equivalent disinfection criteria, as described in Special Provision VI.C.6.a.
b. 1 Nov
ember – 30 April (commencing 1 November 2023):
In the descriptions below, “filtered” means tertiary filtration of BNR effluent
under filter operations co nsistent with the design hydraulic loading rate
necessary to comply with the Title 22, or equivalent, disinfection criteria.
i. When
 the BNR effluent flow is 217 MGD, or less, measured as a
daily average, the entire BNR effluent flow will be filtered.
ii. When
 the BNR effluent flow exceeds 217 MGD, up to 217 MGD will
be filtered and the remaining wastewater will not be filtered. A portion
of the filtered effluent may be reclaimed. The remaining filtered and
non-filtered wastewater will be disinfected and co mbined with
reclaimed water in excess of demands, prior to the dechlorination
facilities.
One component of the Future Facility is the Tertiary Treatment Facilities
(TTF) project, which will use tertiary filtration and disinfection to treat
secondary efflue nt from the Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) facility.
The BNR portion of the project is complete. The TTF project is the last
major component in the EchoWater Project to be completed and is
scheduled for completion in the fall of 2022, followed by testin g and
optimization processes. Once the TTF project is fully operational , it will
replace the existing Water Reclamation Facility for producing disinfected
tertiary recycled water, and supply recycled water to the existing recycled
water users and future us ers. The existing recycled water storage tank
and distribution pumping station will remain in service.
3. Biosol
ids Treatment. Solids are thickened by dissolved air flotation and
gravity belt thickeners. Primary and secondary sludge is mixed. Fats, oils, a nd
grease from the FOG receiving station may be mixed to the waste and the
mixed waste is sent to anaerobic digesters for approximately 15 days or more,
stored at the sludge stab ilization basins for 3 to 5 years, then harvested and
injected into dedicated lined land disposal sites. Some biosolids are recycled
with the Synagro Organic Fertilizer Company and the Discharger can dispose
of biosolids at the Keifer Landfill as an emergency disposal option. Separate
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -02
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8WDR’s (Order R5- 2015 -0133), in conformance with California Code of
Regulations (CCR), Title 27, division 2, subdivision 1, regulate the biosolids
and solids storage and disposal facilities, the Class II dedicated land treatment
units, unclassified solids storage basins, and the Class III grit and screen ing
landfill closure. When the treatment plant upgrades are complete, biosolids
treatment and disposal will remain unchanged.
4. Groundwater Corrective Action Plan (CAP). The Discharger initiated a CAP
in December 1995 and is currently regulated under WDR Order R5 -2015 -0133.
The CAP is to address elevated constituent concentrations that were observed
in samples from groundwater monitoring wells down gradient of the dedicated
land disposal areas (DLD’s) a nd the Class III landfill when compared to
upgradient groundwater monitoring wells. Extraction wells are used for
hydraulic control of the site. Characterization of the groundwater aquifer is
documented in the reports submitted twice annually pursuant to W DR Order
R5-2015 -0133. The Discharger conveys the extracted groundwater from the
CAP extraction wells, at an average pumping rate of approximately 0.4 MGD,
to either the Facility effluent channel downstream of the secondary clarifiers
and upstream of the p lant chlorination station, or onsite constructed wetlands.
Discharging water from the CAP system downstream of the secondary clarifiers
is acceptable and does not decrease the amount of treatment as the treatment
processes upstream of the discharge point are not designed for removal of the
CAP discharge constituents of concern. Furthermore, based on the extracted
groundwater sampling, estimates of CAP discharge constituent concentrations
are either below current Facility effluent concentrations or do not ha ve a
reasonable potential to violate water quality objectives in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is constructing
upgrades to the Facility, including replacement of the existing air biological treatment
facilities with BNR air activated treatment facilities capable of r emoving ammonia
and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration with
granular media filters, and an increase in lined ESB facilities. Construction of the
side stream ammonia treatment is complete.
In all, Facility modificatio ns will result in the construction, commissioning, and
operation of seven or more new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units: flow
equalization, disinfection chemical storage, biological nutrient removal (phase I and
phase II), nitrifying side -stream treatment, and tertiary treatment facilities. Biological
nutrient removal and nitrifying side -stream treatment are biological treatment
processes. The start -up and commissioning period (i.e., period of time necessary for
adjusting and testing of new or rec onstructed wastewater treatment units) for
projects of this size, while maintaining consistent and ongoing treatment operations,
is a complex undertaking. It involves the gradual transitioning of wastewater
treatment from current plant facilities over to n ew or reconstructed treatment plant
facilities. Prior to start -up and adjustment, the Discharger intends to submit start -up
operation plans for the period of adjustment and testing to the Central Valley Water
Board for review. The Discharger has indicated that plans will be submitted
separately for each of the individual wastewater treatment units and will be
submitted in accordance with the schedule for the individual wastewater treatment
unit in question. Specifically, such plans will be submitted at leas t 30 days prior to
the period of adjusting and testing that will take place for each individual wastewater
treatment unit. It is anticipated that the period of adjustment and testing may occur
over several months to over many months, depending on the waste water treatment
unit. However, potential effluent or other permit violations will likely only occur during
certain times of the adjustment and testing period. If the Discharger wishes to apply
for protection from Mandatory Minimum Penalties during the star t-up periods, then
pursuant to Water Code section 13385(j)(1)(D), the Discharger’s start -up operations
plans must include steps that the Discharger will take to prevent violations and
identify the shortest reasonable time required for the period of adjusti ng and testing
that could result in effluent or permit violations. The Central Valley Water Board will
work with the Discharger to identify the appropriate steps and actions to be taken to
minimize the potential for Mandatory Minimum Penalties.
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -02
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-16III. APPLI
CABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal
Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursu
ant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing wit h section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this Facility to surface waters.
B. Cali
fornia Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the provisions of chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
division 13 of the Public Resources Code.
C. Stat
e and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Pla ns
1. Wate
r Quality Control Plan. Requirements of this Order specifically
implement the applicable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basi
n Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin Rive r Basins,
Fifth Edition, May 2018 (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial
uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation
programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters
addressed through the plan. Requi rements in this Order implement the
Basin Plan. In addition, the Basin Plan implements State Water Board
Resolution 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with
certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable
for mu nicipal or domestic supply (MUN). Beneficial uses applicable to the
Sacramento River within the Sacramento -San Joaquin Delta are as
follows:
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5 -2021-0019 -02
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0077682
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-17Table F -3 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point