The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Yuba City and serves a
population of approximately 65,000. In addition, the Facility accepts septage from unsewered portions of Sutter and Yuba Counties. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 10.5 MGD.
Municipal and industrial wastewater treated at the Facility is either discharged to the
Feather River or to disposal ponds within the Feather River levee system on the eastern
side of the Feather River. The Facility also uses treated wastewater for multiple processes including the spray system on primary and secondary clarifiers and screw presses, makeup water for polymers, reheating oxygen, and hosing down facilities in addition to landscape irrigation of 3.5 acres at the Facility. The ROWD estimates the seasonal dependent annual average daily volume used for reuse is 0.5 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Secondary -level treated effluent from the Facility may be discharged to the Feather
River via a multiport diffuser at Discharge Point 001, a direct discharge at Discharge
Point 003, or via a multiport diffuser at Discharge Point 004 . Treated effluent may
also be directed to Discharge Point 002, a series of six disposal ponds located within the Feather River levee.
1. Treatment System. The treatment system at the Facility consists of the
following:
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER R5-2024- 0055
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0079260

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 • B ar screening;
• A erated grit removal ;
• P rimary clarification ;
• P ure oxygen aeration;
• S econdary clarification ;
• C hlorine gas disinfection; and,
• D echlorination (using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to the Feather River
at Discharge Points 001, 003, and 004) .
The aeration process at the Facility was designed to handle high and variable
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) loadings from local food processing facilities, commercial facilities, and residential areas. Additionally, approximately 3 0
percent of the BOD loading to the Facility is from one significant industrial user (Sunsweet Growers) that discharges a nutritionally dilute industrial discharge.
a. Polyammonium Phosphate. A polyammonium phosphate dosing program
was put in place to help balance the influent wastewater nutrient rati o. This
was intended to help control filamentous growth outbreaks that led to high
sludge volume indexes and poor settling in the secondary clarifiers. The
polyammonium phosphate dosing program did not work as intended due to
the lack of the process analyzers and automation systems needed to
accurately track influent nutrients and dose accordingly . As of adopt ion of this
Order , polyammonium phosphate was last used in October 2022.
2. Stormwater . Section I.B.20 of the General Permit for Storm Water Discharges
Associated with Industrial Activities , Order 2014- 0057- DWQ , states “ Discharges
of storm water regulated under another individual or general NPDES permit
adopted by the State Water Board or Regional Water Board are not covered
under this General Permit, including the State Water Board NPDES General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with Construction and Land Disturbance Activities. “. This Order regulates discharges of storm water. All
storm water is maintained on-site and is directed to an on- site storm, unlined
water basin, maintained per section VI.C.4 of this Order , where it can be directed
to the headworks.
3. Biosolids. Biosolids are thickened using rotary drum thickeners and then
anaerobically digested in two digesters. Digested biosolids are dewatered by 3 screw presses and disposed of off -site as landfill cover material. The F acility
produces approximately 1,200 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503. Anaerobic digesters are cleaned approximately every five years, and biosolids residue scraped from the inside of the digesters is stored in one of the former drying beds, which has a honeycomb type of underdrain directed back to the headworks, until disposal. The drying beds are
not used except to dry residue from the digesters when they are cleaned every 5 years. The former drying beds were not in use during the 9 September 2022
compliance inspection.
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER R5-2024- 0055
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0079260

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 4. Auxiliary Processes .
a. Odors. The Facility is equipped with three composite bed biofilters that are
used to control odors from headworks, primary clarification, and dewatering building operations.
b. Disposal Ponds. Each disposal pond size is shown in

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Feather River channel has shifted in the vicinity of Discharge Point 001 and 003
such that, at normal non- storm event flows, the diffuser at Discharge Point 001 is no
longer submerged. In order to ensure that discharges to the Feather River via the diffuser at Discharge Point 001 receive adequate dilution, this Order prohibits discharges at Discharge Point 001 when the depth of water over the diffuser is less than average of 0.8 feet, which corresponds to a