FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Angels and Six Mile Village and
serves a population of approximately 4,178. The design daily average flow capacity of the
Facility is 1.9 million gallons per day (MGD).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of headworks screening, biological
treatment with three sequencing batch reactors (SBR’s) that provide
nitrification/denitrification, coagulation and flocculation, recirculating sand filtration, ORDER R5-2 022-0038
N
PDES NO. CA 0085201
CITY OF ANGELS
WASTEWATER TREAMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. The headworks includes an ultrasonic flow
meter, mechanical screening, and grit removal. During periods of high influent flows,
wastewater may bypass the mechanical screen and pass through a manual bar
screen or be diverted to a 3 million gallon equalization basin and returned to the
headworks as flows subside.
Until August 2016 the Discharger was adding hydrated lime slurry (calcium
hydroxide) to the influent to increase the alkalinity and pH, to assist with the
nitrification/denitrification process, and to reduce Nocardia growth, which causes
foaming in the SBR’s and aerobic digesters. At the end of August 2016 the
Discharger stopped using calcium hydroxide and started adding a caustic solution.
The rationale behind this change was to minimize the addition of salts to the
wastewater during the treatment processes. Thus, the Discharger is experimenting
with other options as well and at the same time is working on developing an
appropriate dosage caustic solution for the Facility. The Facility has three SBR’s, a
fourth being used as an intermediate storage basin, but can be converted to an SBR
if necessary. Wastewater is distributed to each of the SBR’s equally. Each SBR
operates on a 4-hour cycle, which includes 2 hours of aeration, 1 hour of settling,
and 1 hour of decanting. The decant from the SBR’s flows to the intermediate
storage basin to equalize batch flows and provide continuous flow to the four
recirculating Dynasand filters.
The Facility uses a UV disinfection system consisting of two channels with three
banks in each channel, each with 36 lamps. Having previously used a chlorine
disinfection system, the contact chamber is now maintained for use as emergency
storage. As allowed by WDR Order 98-110, the effluent is discharged to a 66 million
gallon storage reservoir (Holman Reservoir) where it is used for spray irrigation of 61
acres of pastureland. During the irrigation season, as allowed by WDR Order 98-
110, the effluent may also be recycled on 110 acres of the Greenhorn Creek Golf
Course. When wastewater flows exceed the land disposal and storage capacity of
the Facility, as allow by this Order, effluent may be discharged seasonally to Angels
Creek.
Sludge is aerobically digested in two digesters and dewatered by a belt filter press
and sludge drying beds. Filtrate from the belt filter press is drained back to the
headworks. Solids are transported offsite for disposal as needed and a minimum of
once per year.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this Facility to surface waters.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
Division 13 of the Public Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1.Water Quality Control Plans . Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the applicable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basin Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fifth Edition, May 2018 (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial
uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation
programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed
through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan.
The Basin Plan at section 2.1 states that the beneficial uses of any
specifically identified water body generally apply to its tributary streams .
The Basin Plan in Table 2-1, section 2, does not specifically identify
beneficial uses for Angels Creek, but does identify present and potential
uses for New Melones Reservoir, to which Angels Creek is tributary . In
addition, the Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution 88-63,
which established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions,
should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply. Thus, beneficial uses applicable to Angels Creek are as
follows:ORDER R5-2 022-0038
N
PDES NO. CA 0085201
CITY OF ANGELS
WASTEWATER TREAMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8Table F-3 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point