existing facility is exempt
from the provisions of the California Environmental Quality (CEQA), in accordance with
the California Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301.

79. A Mitigated Negative Declaration was certified by the City of Dixon on 11 March 2014 in
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Pub. Resources
Code, § 21000 et seq.). The Mitigated Negative Declaration describes the project as
construction of secondary treatment at the WWTF. Secondary treatment wi ll be
provided by replacing the existing treatment ponds with a nitrifying/denitrifying activated
sludge process. Construction will include a new influent pump station, a headworks
with mechanical screening and flow measurement, and a new potable well. Flow
equalization may be provided by constructing an equalization basin post treatment.
Upgrades of piping and pumping capacities throughout the WWTF and disposal area will be included. Construction is scheduled to b egin in spring 2015.

80. The Mitigated Negative Declaration evaluated the potential impacts to groundwater
quality and found that operation of the new wastewater treatment system will improve
water quality. Sources of contamination may occur with maintenance and operation of equipment that require use of hazardous materials such as engine oil and gasoline. During construction, additional sources of polluted discharge may be present such as
hazardous material and sediment. Implementation of best management practices or a
spill prevention control and countermeasure plan will mitigate the potential of contamination and reduce impacts to less than significant .

81. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge,
which establishes management criteria for protection of ground and surface waters, sets application rates for heavy metals, and establishes stabilization and disinfection criteria.

82. The Central Valley Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines in
establishing this Order, but the Central Valley Water Board is not the implementing agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The Discharger may have separate and/or additional compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to the EPA.

83. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.

Public Notice

84. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the following conditions of discharge.

85. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the Central
Valley Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014- 0098 26
CITY OF DIXON
DIXON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SOLANO COUNTY


discharge, and they have been provided an opportunity to submit written comments
and an opportunity for a public hearing.

86. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public
hearing.
 IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order 94-187 is rescinded, and, pursuant to Water Code
sections 13263 and 13267, the City of Dixon , its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to
meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the Water Code and regulations adopted
hereunder, shall comply with the following:
 A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.
2. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardous’, as defined in the California
Code of Regulations, t itle 23, se ction 2510 et seq., is prohibited.
3. Treatment system bypass of untreated or partially treated waste is
prohibited, except as allowed by Standard Provision E.2 of the Standard
Provisions and Repor ting Requirem ents for Waste Discharge R equirements.
4. Discharge of waste at a location or in a manner different from that described
in the Findings is prohibited.
5. The Discharge r shall not allow toxic substances to be discharged into the
wastewater treatment system such that biological treatment mechanisms are
disrupted.
B. Flow Limitations
1. Effectively immediately , influent flows to the WWTF shall not exceed the following
interim limits:
Flow Measurement Flow Limit
Total Annual Flow 1 701 MG
Average Annual Flow 2 1.92 MGD
1 As determined by the total flow for the calendar year.
2 As determined by the total flow for the months of June through August , inclusive, divided by 92
days.


WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014- 0098 27
CITY OF DIXON
DIXON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SOLANO COUNTY


C.