FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Chico and serves a
population of approximately 100,000, a population increase of approximately 16,000 from
the Order R5 -2016 -0023 . The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is
12 million gallons per day ( MGD ) based on the design average day average month
CITY OF CHICO ORDER R5 -2022-0033
CHICO WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES CA0079081
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 (ADAM) flow. However, the Facility design daily average flow capacity is currently limited
to 8.4 MGD as a result of the Discharger’s current reliance on Plant 2 facilities.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of screening for removal of large solids, grit removal, primary
clarification, activated sludge treatment with secondary clarification, and
chlorination/ dechlorination. Sludge is anaerobically digested and dewatered using a
centrifuge and are hauled directly from the centrifuge building, identified in
Attachment C, for land application in unincorporated Sacramento County, California
(Silva Ranch). Sludge digester supernatant (centrate) is routed back to the
secondary treatment works. Since October 2018, the Discharger does not store or
dry any sludge or biosolids on -site at the Facility. The Discharger has a three -year
agreement with Synagro to haul the biosolids for disposa l. Drying beds are still used
as necessary during facility maintenance. The facility produce s approximately 1,130
dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
1. Treatment Train Configuration . Influent wastewater flows through the
headworks and primary treatment processes by gravity. Following primary
treatment, primary effluent is split between two parallel treatment trains that each
consist of secondary treatment and disinfection (Plant 1 and Plant 2) processes.
The current total plant capacity rating relies on the combined secondary &
disinfection capacities o f Plants 1 and 2, which have the following design
capacities: Plant 1: Average daily flow capacity: 3.6 MGD, peak hydraulic flow
capacity: 9 MGD. Plant 2: Average daily flow capacity: 8.4 MGD, peak hydraulic
flow capacity: 21 MGD . The northeast pond, PND -004 can be utilized as an
influent diversion, and emergency storage pond.
a. Plant 1 has not been operated regularly since the commissioning of Plant
2, with the most recent operation of Plant 1 having occurred in early 2003.
The Plant 1 facilities w ould require extensive rehabilitation and/or
replacement for reliable future use.
b. Plant 2 provides secondary treatment and disinfection for all current
influent Facility flows, with the following total design capacities for each of
the existing treatment pro cesses:
i. Aeration Basins No. 3 -6: 11.4 MGD (ADAM)
ii. Secondary Clarifiers No. 3 -5: 9.1 MGD (ADAM)
iii. Chlorine Contact Basins No. 3 -4: 1.47 hours contact time at ADAM
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger is currently in discussions with the Town of Paradise (Paradise)
regarding a wastewater regionalization project, whereby the Discharger would
accept and treat sewage from a planned Paradise sewer collection system. Planning
efforts have just concluded to identify Facility needs to accommodate the
Discharger’s projected flows along with anticipated sewerage contributions from
Paradise, and the agencies are in the process of negotiating a Principles of
Agreement for future connection from Paradise. The City is also currently pursuing
Facility stress testing which will establish the actual treatment capacity limitation of
existing Plant 2 facilities (which is anticipated to be higher than the design capacity) ,
prior to initiation of design of facilities needed for increased capacity .
The Discharger is also evaluating Facility emergency effluent diversion, storage, and
return improvements. The improvements are aimed, in part, at addressing the
Facility’s emergency storage needs for wastewater that does not meet water quality
specifications prior to discharge to surface water or to land (i.e. , M&T Pond ,
Southwest Pond, Southeast Pond). Return flow capabilities to the existing
emergency storage pond (Northeast Pond, PND- 004) or a newly designed waste
pond are being considered. Further, a Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE) activated
sludge process improvement project is under consideration to facilitate nutrient
removal at the Facility.
In addition, the Discharger has initiated a project to procure and construct a
pre-engineered and fabricated metal storage building and initiated a project to add a
CITY OF CHICO ORDER R5 -2022-0033
CHICO WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES CA0079081
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10 new blower (or replace Blower No. 7) to increase the range of operation that the
system can operate under.
As longer -term projects, the Discharger has identified tertiary filtration, and
alternative disinfection processes as pot entially necessary for water quality
improvement and compliance with future NPDES permit requirements .
III.