Facility Information:

1. The names and general responsibilities of all persons employed to operate the produced water treatment systems.
 2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF
for emergency and routine situations.
 3. A statement certifying when the flow meters and other monitoring instruments and devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibration (Standard Provision C. 4).
 4. A statement certifying whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated,
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2013 -0055 -7-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF STATE HOSPITALS
COALINGA STATE HOSPI TAL
FRESNO COUNTY



and the dates when these documents were last revised and last reviewed for
adequacy.

Sludge /biosolids monitoring shall be performed per the requirements listed on page 4 .
Should sludge removal be required, the Discharger shall provide the information listed
below. S ludge/biosolids sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years
in accordance with 40 CFR, Part 503.17. A log shall be kept of sludge/biosolids
quantities generated and of handling, application, and disposal activities. The frequency of entries is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis to report sludge monitoring. Sludge/biosolids reporting shall include:
1. The amount of sludge generated that year, in dry metric tons, and the amount
accumulated from previous years.
2. Demonstrations of pathogen reduction methods and vector attraction reduction methods, as required in 40 CFR, Parts 503.17 and 503.27, and certifications.
3. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method.
a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill receiving
the sludge, and the Order number of WDRs that regulate it.
b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order
number of any WDRs that regulate it.
c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where sludge
incineration occurs, the Order number of WDRs t hat regulate the site, the
disposal method of ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving
ash (if applicable).
d. For composting , include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
 The Discharger shall impl ement the above monitoring program on the first day of the
month following adoption of this Order.

Ordered by: Original signed by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON , Executive Officer
 31 May 2012
 (Date)
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2013 -0055 -8-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF STATE HOSPITALS
COALINGA STATE HOSPI TAL
FRESNO COUNTY



GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be a flow -
proportioned composite consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected every day.
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non -consecutive
days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non-
consecutive weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six
times per year) during non- consecutive months
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in
January, April, July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two
times per year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples
shall be collected in April and October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
µg/L Micrograms per liter
umhos/cm Micromhos per cent imeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:

Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance.



MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2013 -0055 -9-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF STATE HOSPITALS
COALINGA STATE HOSPI TAL
FRESNO COUNTY



Table 2. Land Application Area Monitoring

 Recycled Water Monitoring Data For Year: ________
 Parcel No. ______ of _______ acres
 Water Application Water Quality Nitrogen Application
 Water
required Effluent
used Other
water
used Total
irrigation
water Other
Water
BOD Other
Water
TN As
fertilizer As
effluent* Total
nitrogen
applied
Month Crop (AF) (AF) (AF) (AF) (mg/L) (mg/L) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre)
October
November
December
Subtotal:
January
February
March
Subtotal:
April
May
June
Subtotal:
July
August
September
Subtotal:
Annual
Total:

* calculated as (AF effluent/acre) x (2.72) x (X mg/l total nitrogen) = lbs nitrogen/acre


INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER R5 -2013-0055
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF STATE HOSPITALS
COALINGA STATE HOSPI TAL
FRESNO COUNTY


Background
The California Department of State Hospitals (Discharger) owns and operates the Coalinga
State Hospital ( Hospital) at 24,511 West Jayne Avenue about five miles east of the community
of Coalinga in Fresno County (Attachment A) . The Hospital has its own wastewater treatment
facility (W WTF) to serve the needs of the patients and the staff. The Discharger submitted a
November 2001 Technical Report and an April 2002 Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) in
order to obtain Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for the then proposed State Hospital .
Currently, the Discharger has not been issued WDRs , but it has voluntarily sampled its
effluent for a suite of constituents recommended by Central Valley Regional Water Quality
Control Board (hereafter Central Valley Water Board) staff since 200 6.

The Hospital, WWTF, and Land Application Area are on 320 acres of land. The Hospital is on
the northern 160 acres, while the WWTF and Land Application Area are within the southern
160 acres as shown in Attachment A (Location Map). The WWTF consists of a headworks
and bar screens, four lined aerated ponds, and two lined wastewater storage ponds .
Wastewater is discharged to a 50-acre Land Application Area that is south of the WWTF .

The RWD indicate s that the Land Application Area comprised 100 acres. However, only 50
acres is now used for the disposal of wastewater. The other 50 acres is a flood control basin
for the area. A facilities inspection in 2010 found that wastewater was flowing preferentially towards the flood control basin and not spreading evenly over the Land Application Area.
Central Valley Water Board staff sent an April 2010 letter asking the Discharger to outline measures to eliminate the comingling of the storm water and wastewater. The Discharge
replied in a May 2010 letter indicating a levee or berm (12 feet wide and 2 feet high) would be
constructed to separate the two discharges and the Land Application Area would be “laser
leveled” to promote uniform distribution of the wastewater over the Land Application Area.
Recent discussions with WWTF personnel indicate the berm was constructed, the Land
Application Areas have been leveled and are planted with Bermuda grass.
 The discharge of wastewater to the 50- acre Land Application Area is not considered a Title 22
recycled water project. However, certain Title 22 requirements such as identification of hose bibs used to distribute treated wastewater, setbacks from property boundaries and groundwater wells, and signs warning the public of the use of treated wastew ater on the Land
Application Area are prudent to protect public health.
 Existing Discharge
The WWTF discharge d about 0.1 million gallons per day (mgd) in 2012 to the storage ponds
and the 50-acre Land Application Area. The a verage analytical results for the discharge of
effluent from the WWTF and five nearby United States Geological Survey ( USGS ) wells are
summarized in the