Facility Description), the Discharger manages effluent
discharge to the six -acre pond such that no undisinf ected effluent is
present in the pond prior to sending disinfected effluent to the six -acre
pond in anticipation of a surface water discharge. The Discharger shall
submit an Operations Plan that details the operation of the disinfection
facilities and the six-acre pond year -round; the operation plan shall
demonstrate how the Discharger ensures that any effluent present in the
six-acre pond that eventually is discharged to the receiving water is
disinfected, in accordance with this Order. The operations plan  shall also
include a Water Board notification requirement that clearly communicates
when the six -acre pond has been cleared of undisinfected effluent (or
commingled effluent) prior to discharge to surface water and when
disinfection facilities are used or not. In no case shall the discharge to the
surface water contain undisinfected effluent.
5. Special Provisions for POTWs
a.Sludge/Biosolids Treatment or Discharge Specifications . Sludge in
this Order means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during
primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes . Solid
waste refers to grit and screening material generated during preliminary
treatment . Residual sludge means sludge that will not be subject to further
treatment at the wastewater treatment plant . Biosolids refer to sludge that
has been treated and tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially
and legally used pursuant to federal and state regulations as a soil
amendment for agricultural, silvicultural, horticu ltural, and land reclamation
activities as specified under 40 C.F.R. part 503. This Order does not
regulate offsite use or disposal of biosolids, which are regulated instead
under 40 C.F.R. part 503; administered by U.S. EPA . The
Sludge/Biosolids Treatment or Discharge Specifications in this OrderORDER R 5-2024-0023  
NPDES NO . CA0077844 
CITY OF PORTOLA  
PORTOLA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-78implement the California Water Code to ensure sludge/biosolids are 
properly handled onsite to prevent nuisance, protect public health, and 
protect groundwater quality.  
b. Sludge/Biosolids Management Plan  Update . A Sludge/Biosolids
Management Plan is needed to ensure the Discharger properly handles
sludge/ biosolids onsite to prevent nuisance, protect public health, and
protect groundwater quality.  The Discharge previously submitted a
preliminary Sludge Disposal Plan , dated 4 June  2014 , prepared by Sauers
Engineering.  However, the Discharger indicated in the ROWD that
biosolids are being disposed of at a landfill rather than land application at
the site as noted in the preliminary Sludge Disposal Plan.  An update is
needed to verify current practices.
6. Other Special Provisions
7.Compliance Schedules
VII. RATIONALE FOR MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
CWA section 308 and 40 C.F.R. sections  122.41(h), (j) -(l), 122.44(i), and 122.48 require 
that all NPDES permits specify monitoring and reporting requirements . Water Code 
sections 13267 and 13383 authorize the Central Valley Water Board to establish 
monitoring, inspection, entry, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements. The Monitoring 
and Reporting Program (MRP), Attachment E of this Order establishes monitorin g, 
reporting, and recordkeeping requirements that implement federal and state requirements. 
The burden, including costs, of these monitoring and reporting requirements bears a 
reasonable relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtai ned 
therefrom. The Discharger, as owner and operator of the Facility, is required to comply 
with these requirements, which are necessary to determine compliance with this Order. 
The following provides additional rationale for the monitoring and reporting requirements 
contained in the MRP for this facility.  
Water Code section 13176, subdivision (a), states: “The analysis of any material required 
by [Water Code sections 13000 -16104] shall be performed by a laboratory that has 
accreditation or certification pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with section 100825)  of 
Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 101 of the Health and Safety Code.” The DDW accredits 
laboratories through its Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program (ELAP).  
Section 13176 cannot be interpreted in a manner that would violate federal holding time 
requirements that apply to NPDES permits pursuant to the CWA. (Wat. Code sections 
13370, subd. (c), 13372, 13377.). Section 13176 is inapplicable to NPDES permits to th e 
extent it is inconsistent with CWA requirements. (Wat. Code section 13372, subd. (a).) Lab 
accreditation is not required for field tests such as tests for color, odor, turbidity, pH, 
temperature, dissolved oxygen, electrical conductivity, and disinfectan t residual. Due to 
the location of the Facility, it is both legally and factually impossible for the Discharger to ORDER R 5-2024-0023  
NPDES NO . CA0077844 
CITY OF PORTOLA  
PORTOLA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-79comply with section 13176 for constituents with short holding times. analysis within the 
required hold times.  
A. Influent Monitoring
1.Influent monitoring is required to collect data on the characteristics of the
wastewater and to assess compliance with effluent limitations (e.g., BOD 5 and
TSS reduction requirements). The monitoring frequencies  and sample types
have been retained from Order R5-2018-0088 , except as noted in Table F -17,
below .
2.Septage Receiving is removed from this Order because the Discharger does not
accept any septage at the Facility.
B. Effluent Monitoring
1.Pursuant to the requirements of 40  C.F.R. section  122.44(i)(2) effluent monitoring
is required for all constituents with effluent limitations . Effluent monitoring is
necessary to assess compliance with effluent limitations, assess the
effectiveness of the treatment process, and to assess the impacts of the
discharge on the receiving stream and groundwater .
2.Filtered monitoring for aluminum, iron, and manganese is required to compare to
the secondary MCL for each parameter to determine if there is reasonable
potential in the discharge to exceed the Secondary MCL.
3.Chlorine, total residual monitoring location was changed from EFF -002 to
EFF-001 to better demonstrate that the effluent is dechlorinated immediately
after the chlorine contact basin, prior to flowing to the river through the six -acre
pond and wetland.
4.Effluent monitoring frequencies and sample types have been retained from Order
R5-2018 -0088, except as noted in Table F -17, below.
C. Land Discharge Monitoring
1.Land discharge monitoring is required to ensure that the discharge to land
complies with the Land Discharge Specifications in section IV.B of this Order.  All
monitoring frequencies have been added since the monitoring location is new.
D.Receiving Water Monitoring
1. Surface Water
a. Receiving water monitoring is necessary to assess compliance with
receiving water limitations and to assess the impacts of the discharge on
the receiving stream. Receiving water samples at RSW -001 are onlyORDER R 5-2024-0023  
NPDES NO . CA0077844 
CITY OF PORTOLA  
PORTOLA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET  F-80required during the allowable discharge period from 1 November through 
30 April, instead of year -round as noted in Order R5 -2018 -0088.   
The RSW-001 monitoring location has been specified as “within 100 feet 
upstream from the point of discharge on the west bank of the river .” The 
location description has been updated from the previous Order , which did 
not prescribe  the side of the river for sample collection.  Sample collection 
on the higher west bank of the river is preferred to reduce any potential of 
overland flow that may be experienced on the lower  east side of the river  
and to provide reliable access  at all river conditions . The RSW -001 
monitoring location is expected to provide more representative data in the 
receiving water  at all river conditions.  
Receiving surface water monitoring frequencies and sample types have 
been retained from Order R5 -2018 -0088, except as noted in Table F -17, 
below.  
2. Groundwater
a. Water Code section 13267 states, in part, “(a) A Regional Water Board, in
establishing waste discharge requirements may investigate the quality of
any waters of the state within its region” and “(b)(1) In conducting an
investigation, the Regional Water Board may require that any person who
discharges waste that could affect the quality of waters within its region
shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program
reports which the Regional Water Board requires. The burden, including
costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for
the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports.” The burden,
including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the
need for the report and th e benefits to be obtained from the reports. In
requiring those reports, a Regional Water Board shall provide the person
with a written explanation with regard to the need for the reports and shall
identify the evidence that supports requiring that person t o provide the
reports. The Monitoring and Reporting Program is issued pursuant to
Water Code section 13267. The groundwater monitoring and reporting
program required by this Order and the Monitoring and Reporting Program
are necessary to assure compliance with these waste discharge
requirements. The Discharger is responsible for the discharges of waste at
the facility subject to this Order.
b. Monitoring of the groundwater must be conducted to determine if the
discharge has caused an increase in constituent concentrations, when
compared to background. The monitoring must, at a minimum, require a
complete assessment of groundwater impacts incl uding the