existing facility, further CEQA analysis is not required pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 14, section 15301 (exempting permitting actions for existing facilities).

57. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 C ode of Federal Regulatio ns part 503, Standards for the Use or
Disposal of Sewage Sludge , which establish management criteria for protection of
ground and surface waters, sets limits and application rates for heavy metals, and
establishes stabilization and disinfection criteria. The Central Valley Water Board is not
the implementing authority for the 40 CFR 503 regulations . The Discharger may have
separate and/or additional compliance, reporting, and permitting responsibilities to EPA.

58. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.

Public Notice

59. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the
conditions of discharge of this Order .

60. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the Central
Valley Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this
discharge, and they have been provided an opportunity to submit written comments and
recommendations and an opportunity for a public hearing.

61. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public hearing .

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Waste Discharge Requirements Order 5-01-247 is rescinded
and that the City of Delano , its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet t he
provisions contained in Division 7 of the W ater Code and regulations adopted hereunder,
shall comply with the following:




WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2017-0052
CITY OF DELANO
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY

 -17-
A. Discharge Prohibitions

1. Discharge of waste to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.

2. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardous’, as defined in C alifornia Code of
Regulations , title 2 2, section 6626.1 et seq., is prohibited.

3. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated wastes is prohibited , except as
allowed by Standard Provisions E.2 of the Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements , dated 1 March 1991.

4. Discharge of wastewater in a manner or location other than that described herein or
in the RWD and its amendments is prohibited.

5. Discharge of toxic substances into the wastewater treatment system or
evaporation/percolation ponds such that biological treatment mechanics are
disrupted is prohibited.

B. Flow Limitations [Compliance shall be determined at INF-0011]

1. The monthly average dry weather flow shall not exceed 7.20 mgd.

C.