wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF
for emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provisions
E.4 and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years;
6. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids; b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow
diagram; and
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related
to the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2008-0072 -9-
CITY OF MCFARLAND KERN COUNTY
i. For landfill disposal , include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c) the names and locations of the facilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b)
the Order number of any WDRs that regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the site(s)
where sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the
order numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
7. A summary of all recycled water operations for the previous year (i.e., from
October through September). The summary shall discuss total monthly water application; total wastewater recycled annually; total nutrient loading annually from applied wastewater, biosolids, and chemical fertilizers; and total estimated amount of nutrients removed through crop harvest. The summary shall also review the use area management plan (described in Provision F.7) and make recommendations regarding continuation or modification of the plan. In short, the summary shall present a mass balance relative to constituents of concern and hydraulic loading along with supporting data and calculations.
8. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
9. A statement regarding whether the current operation and maintenance manual,
and contingency plan, reflect the groundwater cleanup system as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report shall be prepared as a
fourth quarter groundwater monitoring report. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly groundwater monitoring schedule plus the results of any annually sampled groundwater constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally
presented in the quarterly groundwater monitoring reports, the Annual Report shall include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
2. Graphs of the analytical data for all samples collected from each monitoring well
for at least five calender years. Each such graph shall plot over time for a given monitoring well the concentration of one or more waste constituents specified herein and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2008-0072 -10-
CITY OF MCFARLAND KERN COUNTY
shall be plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in water
quality, and shall plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the previous monitring events for at least the
last five calendar years.
4. The most recent water supply report for the City of McFarland (Consumer
Confidence Report) including laboratory data;
All technical reports required herein must be overseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3.
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any
violations during the reporting period and all actions taken or planned for correcting violations, such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
Ordered by:
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 25 April 2008
 (Date)
DKP/JSP: 2/21/08
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. R5-2008-0072
CITY OF MCFARLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY KERN COUNTY
Background
The City of McFarland (Discharger or City) operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal facility (WWTF) for the residents and small industry of the City of McFarland. The WWTF has an average daily flow of about 1.0 million gallons per day (mgd).
The Discharger submitted a report of waste discharge (RWD) dated in June 2004, in support of
a discharge to land of 1.55 mgd of wastewater from the existing Wastewater Treatment Facility (hereafter “WWTF”). Additional information was included in a 17 May 2005 Final Geotechnical Investigation report prepared by BSK regarding modification and expansion (hereafter Expansion Project) of the WWTF. The existing WWTF provides secondary treatment of the wastewater stream. Treatment includes screening to remove large solids, aeration, and sedimentation. Effluent is discharged to approximately seven acres of lined (soil cement) aeration lagoons. Effluent then is discharged to approximately 30 acres of unlined evaporation/percolation ponds (Disposal Ponds) and/or an approximately 270-acre Use Area.
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 89-154, adopted by the Regional Water
Board on 11 August 1989, currently limits the discharge flow to 1.1 million gallons per day (mgd). The WDRs also establish monthly average and daily maximum limits for settleable solids (SS) of 0.2 milliliter per liter (mL/L) and 1.0 mL/L and biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) of 40 milligram per liter (mg/L) and 80 mg/L. WDRs Order No. 89-154 does not reflect
the configuration of the Expansion Project.
The Expansion Project consists of constructing a new 30-acre Disposal Pond and re-cropping
of city owned land to meet agronomic requirements for discharge of effluent to land. The Discharger has not submitted a technical report describing the construction of the new storage pond. The 17 May 2005 Final Geotechnical Investigation report proposed expanding the eastern wall of the western disposal pond. The expansion project as designed would have added 25 acres of storage and increased the total storage from about 236 acre-feet to 361 acre-feet. Regional Water Board staff concurred with the proposed expansion project in a 22 May 2006 letter to the Discharger. However, during a 16 May 2007 site inspection, it was observed that the eastern wall of the pond had not been removed and a separate 30-acre pond was being constructed in the same area. While the new design appears to be adequate, a technical report describing the storage ponds is required from the Discharger.
The Regional Water Board’s 22 May 2007 letter requested the Discharger address the amount
of land that would be required to recycle wastewater due to the proposed expansion project removing 20 acres of the available alfalfa. The Discharger earlier provided a 23 June 2006 McFarland Storage Pond Expansion – Progress Update indicating that 100 acres of land
planted with alfalfa was required to meet the discharge requirements and proposed converting 75-acres planted with Sudan grass to alfalfa as well as converting 80 acres of wine grapes.The proposed 155 acres exceeded the indicated required proposed 100-acre area. However, information provided by the operator in July 2007 indicated the Discharger was now looking
INFORMATION SHEET - ORDER NO. R5-2008-0072 -2-
CITY OF MCFARLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY KERN COUNTY
into acquiring additional land (not the vineyard) to meet their recycling requirements and is still
discharging wastewater to the nearby wine grape orchard in violation of Discharge Specification No. B.12 of Order No. 89-154 for continuing to irrigate crops other than fodder, fiber, or seed crops. When the WDRs were adopted in 1989, Title 22 also allowed the discharge of non-disinfected secondary treated wastewater to food crops where recycled water does not come into contact with the edible portion of the food crop and where the food crop undergoes commercial pathogen-destroying processing before being consumed by humans.In January 2003, the California Department of Health Services (now the Department of Public Health [DPH]) issued a memorandum stating that contact with recycled water is likely to occur in vineyards and that there may be a potential for pathogens to gain access to the interior of fruits. The DPH now recommends that all vineyards be irrigated with water that meets the requirements of disinfected secondary-2.2 recycled water as defined in Title 22. Regional Water Board staff notified the Discharger of this information in a 9 August 2004 letter. The proposed WDRs require an updated Use Area Management Plan and Final Construction report be submitted.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Screenings from the headworks are placed in a dumpster prior to disposal at an offsite landfill.
The Discharger removed accumulated solids from the aeration lagoons in 2005 and 2006 because they had indicated the accumulated solids were contributing to the WWTF’s recurring exceedance of the effluent BOD and nitrogen limits. This Order will require the Discharger to
update the O&M Plan to include a sludge management plan.
The WWTF has no sludge storage facilities. All sludge removed from the ponds will be hauled
offsite to an appropriate disposal facility by a licensed disposal carrier.
Groundwater Conditions
Regional groundwater flows west southwesterly and the depth of water occurs at about 90 to
100 feet below ground surface (bgs), according to information recorded in the WWTF monitoring wells. The WWTF appears to be just east of the eastern edge of the “Corcoran Clay” or “E-clay layer.” Drillers logs indicate a clay layer at about 200 feet bgs in some borings, but none in others, drawing into question the extent of the clay layer in this area.
In 2001, the City began monitoring groundwater in five wells (MW-1 through MW-5) at the
WWTF. Wells MW-1 (northern property boundary) and MW-5 (southeastern property corner) went dry in 2004. The Discharger installed replacement wells MW-1A and MW-5A in January 2007 and added well MW-6 along the southern property boundary. The two-upgradient wells MW-4 and MW-5/5A typically have the highest EC (about 950 to 1,500 umhos/cm) and nitrate as nitrogen concentrations (about 17 to 44 mg/L) indicating these wells likely do not represent true background conditions. Well MW-1 (cross to downgradient) has had high EC (up to 1,700 umhos/cm) and nitrate (up to 48.5 mg/L) concentrations in the past, but concentrations have decreased considerably since 2001. The lowest EC and nitrogen concentrations are observed in downgradient wells MW-2, MW-3, and MW-6.
INFORMATION SHEET - ORDER NO. R5-2008-0072 -3-
CITY OF MCFARLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY KERN COUNTY
Compliance History
The Discharger consistently exceeded the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

