Facility Information

1. The names , certificate grades, and general responsibilities of all persons in charge of
wastewater treatment and disposal.

2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency
and routine situations.

3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (Standard Provision
C.4).

4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.

5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years.

6. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the
discharge into full compliance with this Order.

Biosolids/Sludge Monitoring

1. Annual production to tals in dry tons or cubic yards.

2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage disposed of by each
method.

a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order number
of WDRs that regulate it.

b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM O RDER R5 -2014- 0163
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

 -7-
c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration occurs,
the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable).

d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs
that regulate it.

3. Include the results of monitoring specified on page 4.

Source Water Reporting

1. Include the results of monitoring specified on page 3.

 The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.

 Original signed by:
 Ordered by: ____________________________________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 5 December 2014
 ____________________________________
 (Date)

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM O RDER R5 -2014- 0163
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY

 -8-
GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per year)
during non- consecutive months.
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April, July, and
October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per year).
Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in April and
October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per l iter
mL/L milliliters [of solids] per liter
ug/L Micrograms per liter
umhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall incl ude at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium Nitrate
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of cation/anion
balance.
INFORMATION SHEET


INFORMATION SHEET -ORDER R5 -2014- 0163
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Background
The City of Huron (City or Discharger) owns and operates the Huron Wastewater Treatment Facility
(WWTF). The WWTF is in Assessor’s Parcel Numbers 075- 03-271 and 075- 03-222, in Fresno
County. The WWTF is in sections 1 and 12, T16S, R19E, MDB&M. The Discharger submitted a
Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) on 18 February 2005 in support of a project to increase the
treatment and disposal capacity of the WWTF to 1.0 million gallons per day (mgd) and generally
improve its function with new headworks, treatment ponds, disposal ponds, and biosolids
management system. The Discharger completed the proposed WWTF improvement project in 2006.

Facility and Discharge
The Discharger constructed new headworks, four concrete- lined and actively aerated treatment
ponds, eleven evaporation/percolation disposal ponds (about 59 acres), and a clay -lined sludge
drying bed and dry sludge storage area. The first treatment pond is designed for complete mixing and includes multiple aerators. The last three treatment ponds, partial suspension ponds, are minimally
mixed and aerated by design. Four of the percolation ponds had been treatment ponds in the past,
but were converted to percolation ponds as part of the WWTF improvement project.

The Discharger’s self -monitoring reports (SM Rs) from June 2012 through May 2014 indicate the
monthly average influent flow is about 0.47 mgd, ranging from 0.43 mgd to 0.49 mgd. The highest reported flow the Discharger reported for one day during this period is 0.98 mgd (March 2013).

The table below summarizes the results of WWTF influent and effluent monitoring for the period of
June 2012 through May 2014. The Discharger has not submitted results of required annual effluent general minerals or metals analyses.

Parameter Units Average Range
EC umhos/cm 1,065 459 - 1593
TDS mg/L 572 360 - 940
Calcium mg/L 33 33
Magnesium mg/L 19 19
Sodium1 mg/L 130 130
Chloride1 mg/L 160 160
Sulfate1 mg/L 96 96
Nitrate (as N) mg/L < 0.2 < 0.2 – 0.9
Total Nitrogen mg/L 50 20 - 77
BOD mg/L 22 5 - 62
Bicarbonate1 mg/L 330 330
1 Based on analysis of a single effluent sample collected by Central Valley Water Board staff
during an inspection on 12 June 2014.

The record does not include a survey of industrial sewer users, but a few industrial facilities operate
within the City limits. The large facilities are primarily storage for agricultural products, like Harris Fresh Onion Division and Dole Fresh Vegetables. Influent BOD ranged from 42 mg/L to 340 mg/L,
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2014- 0163 -2-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


with an average of 207 mg/L from June 2012 through May 2014. Effluent BOD monitoring results
show that the WWTF is capable of achieving BOD removal to below 40 mg/L, a standard included in
the Tulare Lake Basin Plan.
 Influent nitrogen concentrations are expected to be consistent with typical domestic wastewater. The
current treatment process does not appear to provide significant nitrogen removal. Relative to other
WWTFs in the Region, effluent is high in total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), which is indicative of
insufficient dissolved oxygen concentrations in the treatment ponds for biological nitrification to occur.
The concentration of dissolved oxygen in the treatment ponds depends primarily on aerator duty cycle.

The RWD includes a water balance that indicates the WWTF is capable of accommodating the design
flow of 1.0 mgd, plus seasonal precipitation with a 100- year return period. The headworks were
reportedly designed to accommodate influent flows up to 2.0 mgd.

The RWD includes a brief description of how future expansion of the RWD to 2.0 mgd could be
accomplished through construction of an additional sludge drying bed and four additional treatment
ponds, adjacent and similar in design to the existing ponds. The Discharger has not submitted
detailed plans for the next phase of proposed expansion, which is not expected to be necessary within the next ten years.

Biosolids
WDRs Order 87- 012 requires that collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer. The RWD describes a
plan to remove approximately 8,900 tons of sludge from the previous treatment ponds, the result of
many years of accumulation. The plan was to haul the sludge to the Synagro West, Inc., facility in Merced County. The record does not include documentation of final sludge disposal .
 The existing WWTF incorporates settled sludge collection ports at the bottom of the second and third
treatment ponds, which directs sludge to a clay -lined sludge drying bed. Liquids drained off the
sludge flow to a sump where they are pumped to the WWTF headworks. Dried sludge is stockpiled in
the sludge storage area just west of the drying bed until there is sufficient quantity to economically
remove it (no more than two years, according to the RWD).

Based on an addendum to the geotechnical report submitted with the RWD, prepared by John Minney
(GE No. 602), soils underlying the sludge drying bed are approximately 50 percent clay and are expected to have a permeability less than 10
-7 cm/s when compacted. The record drawings show the
subgrade was compacted to 95 percent relative density. The six -inch clay liner is native soil treated
with 5 percent bentonite and compacted to 95 percent relative density.
 The RWD includes a projected sludge production rate for a WWTF of this particular design of about
6,300 cubic yards of sludge annually (about 224 tons of dry sludge per year). However, the RWD
states that sludge production rates have been less than the design projections at similar WWTFs in the Central Valley, and actual sludge generation is expected to be less than 175 tons of dry sludge
per year. The RWD describes offsite land application of dry sludge at the Synagro West, Inc., facility
in Merced County or at another permitted facility approved to receive the waste.

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2014- 0163 -3-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Screenings removed at the headworks are conveyed by an auger to a waste bin and are hauled to a
landfill.

Site-Specific Condit ions
The WWTF lies about 25 miles east of the Southern Coast Ranges, on the west side of the San
Joaquin Valley, at an elevation of about 335 feet above mean sea level.
 The WWTF is in an arid climate characterized by dry summers and mild winters. The rainy season
generally extends from November through April. Average annual pan evaporation in the area is about 65 inches, according to DWR Bulletin No. 113 -3. Western Regional Climate Center monitoring data
for Five Points show the average annual precipitation in the discharge area is about 6.8 inches. The 100-year return period wet year precipitation is about 18 inches.
 Soils in the vicinity of the WWTF are alluvium deposited by Los Gatos Creek, predominately sandy loams and clay loams. According to the Web Soil Survey published by the United States Department
of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service, the most prevalent soil series’ in the area are Westhaven loam, Westhaven clay loam, and Excelsior sandy loam, all of which are sandy with
relatively high permeability.
 The area immediately north of the WWTF is characterized by occasional flooding and ponding due to
high storm flows in Los Gatos Creek, which terminates about 1 mile north of the WWTF.

The current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
Number FM06019C3255H, revised 18 February 2009, identifies some areas of the WWTF (including
the four new treatment ponds) as being in an area inundated by a 100- year return frequency flood.
The FEMA map does not appear to have been modified to reflect the change in surface topology from
the WWTF improvement project. The top elevations of WWTF berms containing wastewater are six
to eight feet above the ground surface, which is expected to be above the level of 100 -year return
period flood waters.
The Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System General Industrial Storm Water Permit for the discharge because all storm water runoff is
retained onsite and does not discharge to a water of the United States.
 State Water Project water from the California Aqueduct less than half a mile east of the City provides
the City’s water supply.

The Discharger has performed weekly monitoring of source water EC, required to be done at least
quarterly by Order 87- 012, but has not submitted results of minerals analyses required annually.
Supply water EC varies significantly over time (e.g., increasing from 300 umhos/cm in January 2012 to about 600 umhos/cm in April 2012), but is generally between 200 umhos/cm and 900 umhos/cm.
The Discharger submitted its 2013 Consumer Confidence Report to characterize source water for
preparation of WDRs. .

The WWTF is within the Westlands Water District. Apart from urban uses within the City limits, land
uses in the vicinity of the WWTF are primarily agricultural. Fresno County records for 2013 show
pesticide permits for farmland within two miles of the WWTF were issued for almonds, garbanzo
beans, broccoli, cotton, garlic, lettuce, melon, oats, onion, pistachio, pumpkin, tomato, and wheat.
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2014- 0163 -4-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY



Westlands Water District publishes a water supply report on its website that indicates the majority of
irrigation water (up to 90 percent) is from the Central Valley Project (Aqueduct), but the amount
depends on water availability. The District projects that nearly 70 percent of its water will be supplied by groundwater wells in the 2014 to 2015 water year (March through February).

Groundwater Considerations
The WWTF is in the Westlands Hydrologic Area (No. 551.10) of the South Valley Floor Hydrologic
Unit, as depicted on hydrologic maps prepared by the State Water Resources Control Board in August 1986.
 The WWTF is outside the area described in Lines of Equal Elevation of Water in Wells, Unconfined
Aquifer , published by DWR. The Discharger has no groundwater monitoring wells onsite and the
State Water Resources Control Board Geotracker database shows no groundwater monitoring wells
installed in the City.
 The Corcoran Clay occurs at a depth of about 700 feet below the WWTF. The western edge of the
Corcoran Clay is within about 1,500 feet of the WWTF to the southwest, near the center of the City.
 The WWTF is about five miles west of a large area, spanning from Kettleman City north almost to
Patterson, characterized by shallow groundwater and poor drainage. Maps published by the
Department of Water Resources indicate the depth to groundwater in that area ranges from less than
five to less than 20 feet below ground surface (bgs). Groundwater was encountered in two wells in
the unconfined aquifer between the shallow groundwater area and the WWTF at depths of about 80 feet and 150 feet in the 1960s. No water was encountered during construction in June 2014 of a soil
vapor extraction (SVE) well to a depth of 150 feet at the former C&T Service Station at 36582 Lassen Avenue in Huron. The depth to groundwater in the immediate vicinity of the WWTF appears be in the
range of about 300 to 400 feet bgs.

A 1957 groundwater report by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS) called Ground- Water
Conditions in the Mendota- Huron Area Fresno and Kings Counties, California, characterizes
groundwater quality in the area. It describes groundwater in the unconfined aquifer, above the Corcoran Clay, as generally containing high concentrations of calcium and magnesium sulfate, with a
TDS of about 3,000 mg/L. All of the wells within 5 miles of the WWTF in the USGS database of
published groundwater quality data are screened either below or across the Corcoran Clay, with an average depth of about 2,000 feet bgs.
Staff from Westlands Water District provided water quality data, and some groundwater surface
elevation data, for 29 wells within three miles of the WWTF. Most of the data is from monitoring
performed in the 1950s and 1960s, the same as that provided in the published USGS database. The
dataset from Westlands only includes wells with screened interval either through or above the
Corcoran Clay, though only three are fully above the Clay, installed to depths of 301 feet, 200 feet,
and 151 feet bgs. Table 3 summarizes the dataset provided by Westlands Water District.

Parameter Units Average Range
EC umhos/cm 2,210 1,240 - 4,700
TDS mg/L 2,320 1,100 - 3,100
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2014- 0163 -5-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


Parameter Units Average Range
Sodium mg/L 220 53 - 477
Chloride mg/L 101 36 - 322
Sulfate mg/L 903 459 - 1,770
Nitrate (as N) mg/L 16 0.54 - 9.7
Bicarbonate mg/L 151 82 - 231
Calcium mg/L 130 61 - 362
Magnesium mg/L 98 27 - 222
Potassium mg/L 5.4 2.8 - 11
Boron mg/L 1.1 0.37 - 5.9

The table shows high variability in groundwater quality. The shallow wells exhibit the poorest quality.
None of the samples contained nitrate above the Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) of 10 mg/L. For
wells screened through the Corcoran Clay, the deeper water likely dilutes the poorer quality shallow er
water.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Water Quality Objectives
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition (hereafter Basin Plan)
designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and
policies for protecting waters of the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted
by the State Water Board. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(a), waste discharge requirements
must implement the Basin Plan.
The WWTF is in Detailed Analysis Unit (DAU) No. 244, within the Westside Basin hydrologic unit.
The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as set forth in the Basin Plan for this DAU are
municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural supply (AGR), and industrial s ervice supply (IND).

The Basin Plan includes a water quality objective for chemical constituents that, at a minimum,
requires waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the MCLs specified in Title 22.
The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than
MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely
affect beneficial uses.

The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for Chemical Constituents, Taste and
Odors, and Toxicity. The Toxicity objective, in summary, requires that groundwater be maintained
free of toxic substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in human,
plant, animal, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses. Quantifying a narrative water
quality objective requires a site -specific evaluation of those constituents that have the potential to
impact water quality and beneficial uses.

In the absence of specific numerical water quality limits, the Basin Plan methodology is to consider
any relevant published criteria. General salt tolerance guidelines, such as Water Quality for
Agriculture by Ayers and Westcot and similar references indicate that yield reductions in nearly all
crops are not evident when irrigation water has an EC less than 700 μmhos/cm. There is, however, an eight - to ten- fold range in salt tolerance for agricultural crops and the appropriate salinity values to
protect agriculture in the Central Valley are considered on a case- by-case basis. It is possible to
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2014- 0163 -6-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY


achieve full yield potential with waters having EC up to 3,000 μmhos/cm if the proper leaching fraction
is provided to maintain soil salinity within the tolerance of the crop.
 The Basin Plan identifies the greatest long -term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake Basin as the
increase in salinity in groundwater, which has accelerated due to the intensive use of soil and water
resources by irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan recognizes that degradation is unavoidable until a
mechanism to carry salts out of the basin is established. To limit the degradation, the Basin Plan
establishes several salt management requirements, including:

The incremental increase in salts from use and treatment must be controlled to the extent possible.
The maximum EC shall not exceed the EC of the source water plus 500 umhos/cm.

Discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwater shall not exceed an EC of 1,000
umhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or a boron content of 1.0 mg/L.

This Order implements the maximum discharge EC limit of no more than the source water EC plus
500 umhos/cm as a 12- month rolling average. The discharge has exceeded this level (by an average
of 130 umhos/cm) about 70 percent of the time since January 2012. The proposed Order requires the
Discharger to submit a Salinity Management Plan, and includes a time schedule for implementation
that will bring the Discharger into compliance with the 500 umhos/cm over source effluent EC limit by
(seven years following Order adoption).

The concentration of chloride in first encountered groundwater may be low, as it is influenced by
deeper groundwater with concentrations below 100 mg/L. Groundwater EC exceeds 1000 umhos/cm
As such, the