wastewater treatment and disposal.

2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency
and routine situations.

3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (Standard Provision
C.4).

4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the dates
when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.

5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years.

6. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have
occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.

Biosolids/Sludge Monitoring

1. Annual production totals in dry tons or cubic yards.

2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage disposed of by each
method.

a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order number
of WDRs that regulate it.




MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2013- 0019
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -11-
b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs
that regulate it.

c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of ash, and the name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable) .

d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs that
regulate it.

Use Area R eporting

1. The type of crop(s) grown in the U se Areas, planting and harvest dates, and the quantified
nitrogen and total dissolved solids uptakes (as estimated by technical references or,
preferably, determined by representative plant tissue analysis).

2. The monthly and annual discharge volumes during the reporting year expressed as million gallons and inches.

3. A monthly water balance for the reporting year that includes:

a. Monthly average ETo ( reference evapotranspiration) – Information sources include
California Irrigation Management Information System (CIMIS)
http://www.cimis.water.ca.gov/

b. Monthly crop uptake

i. Crop water utilization rates are available from a variety of publications available from
the local University of California Davis extension office.

ii. Irrigation efficiency – Frequently, engineers include a factor for irrigation efficiency such
that the application rate is slightly greater than the crop utilization rate. A conservative
design does not include this value.

c. Monthly average precipitation – this data is available at http://www.cimis.water.ca.gov/ or
at http://www.ncdc.noaa.g ov/oa/climate/online/ccd/nrmlprcp.html.

d. Monthly average and annual average discharge flow rate.

e. Monthly estimates of the amount of wastewater percolating below the root zone (i.e.,
amount of wastewater applied in excess of crop requirements) .

4. The tota l pounds of nitrogen applied to the Use Areas, as calculated from the sum of the
monthly loadings, and the total annual nitrogen loading to the Use Area s in lbs/acre- year.




MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2013- 0019
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -12-
5. The total pounds of total dissolved solids ( TDS) that have been applied to the Use Area s, as
calculated from the sum of the monthly loadings, and the total annual TDS loading to the Use
Area s in lbs/acre -year.

6. A summary of the notations made in the Use Area monitoring log during the year . The entire
contents of the l og do not need to be submitted.
 7. A scaled map depicting all the Use Areas available to the Discharger for application of WWTF
effluent. The map shall include the effluent distribution system with key features (air gap
devices, major control valves, pumps, recycled water public notice signs, etc.) labeled. The
map shall identify the owner of each Use Area.

The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.
 Original signed by:
 Ordered by: ____________________________________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 11 April 2013
 ____________________________________
 (Date)






MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2013- 0019
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -13-
GLOSSARY

BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per year)
during non- consecutive months.
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April, July, and
October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per year).
Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in April and
October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L milliliters [of solids] per liter
ug/L Micrograms per liter
umhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium Nitrate
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of cation/anion
balance.





MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2013- 0019
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -14-
Table 1. Priority Pollutant Scan
Inorganics1 Organics 3-Methyl -4-Chlorophenol Hexachlorobenzene
Antimony Acrolein Pentachlorophenol Hexachlorobutadiene
Arsenic Acrylonitrile Phenol Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
Beryllium Benzene 2,4,6 -Trichlorophenol Hexachloroethane
Cadmium Bromoform Acenaphthene Indeno(1,2,3 -c,d)pyrene
Chromium (III) Carbon tetrachloride Acenaphthylene Isophorone
Chromium (VI) Chlorobenzene Anthracene Naphthalene
Copper Chlorodibromomethane Benzidine Nitrobenzene
Lead Chloroethane Benzo(a)Anthracene N-Nitrosodimethylamine
Mercury 2-Chloroethylvinyl Ether Benzo(a)pyrene N-Nitrosodi -n-Propylamine
Nickel Chloroform Benzo(b)fluoranthene N-Nitrosodiphenylamine
Selenium Dichlorobromomethane Benzo(g,h,i)perylene Phenanthrene
Silver 1,1-Dichloroethane Benzo(k)fluoranthene Pyrene
Thallium 1,2-Dichloroethane Bis(2 -chloroethoxy) methane 1,2,4 -Trichlorobenzene
Zinc 1,1-Dichloroethylene Bis(2-chloroethyl) ether
Cyanide 1,2-Dichloropropane Bis(2 -chloroisopropyl) ether Pesticides
Asbestos 1,3-Dichloropropylene Bis(2 -Ethylhexyl)phthalate Aldrin
 Ethylbenzene 4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether alpha -BHC
Dioxin Congeners Methyl Bromide Butylbenzyl Phthalate beta-BHC
2,3,7,8 -TCDD Methyl Chloride 2-Chloronaphthalene gamma -BHC (Lindane)
1,2,3,7,8 -PentaCDD Methylene Chloride 4-Chlorophenyl Phenyl Ether delta -BHC
1,2,3,4,7,8 -HexaCDD 1,1,2,2 -Tetrachloroethane Chrysene Chlordane
1,2,3,6,7,8 -HexaCDD Tetrachloroethylene (PCE) Dibenzo(a,h)Anthracene 4,4'-DDT
1,2,3,7,8,9 -HexaCDD Toluene 1,2-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDE
1,2,3,4,6,7,8 -HeptaCDD 1,2-Trans -Dichloroethylene 1,3-Dichlorobenzene 4,4'-DDD
OctaCDD 1,1,1 -Trichloroethane 1,4-Dichlorobenzene Dieldrin
2,3,7,8 -TetraCDF 1,1,2 -Trichloroethane 3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine alpha -Endosulfan
1,2,3,7,8 -PentaCDF Trichloroethylene (TCE) Diethyl phthalate beta-Endosulfan
2,3,4,7,8 -PentaCDF Vinyl chloride Dimethyl phthalate Endosulfan Sulfate
1,2,3,4,7,8 -HexaCDF 2-Chlorophenol Di-n-Butyl Phthalate Endrin
1,2,3,6,7,8 -HexaCDF 2,4-Dichlorophenol 2,4-Dinitrotoluene Endrin Aldehyde
1,2,3,7,8,9 -HexaCDF 2,4-Dimethylphenol 2,6-Dinitrotoluene Heptachlor
2,3,4,6,7,8 -HexaCDF 2-Methyl -4,6-Dinitrophenol Di-n-Octyl Phthalate Heptachlor epoxide
1,2,3,4,6,7,8 -HeptaCDF 2,4-Dinitrophenol 1,2-Diphenylhydrazine Polychlorinated biphenyls
1,2,3,4,7,8,9 -HeptaCDF 2-Nitrophenol Fluoranthene Toxaphene
OctaCDF 4-Nitrophenol Fluorene
1 With the exception of wastewater samples, samples for metals analysis must first be filtered. If filtering in the field is not
feasible, samples shall be collected in unpreserved containers and submitted to the laboratory within 24 hours with a request
(on the chain of custody form) to immediately filter then preserve the sample.
2 Samples to be analyzed for volatile compounds and phthalate esters shall be grab samples; the remainder shall be 24- hour
composite samples.





MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM ORDER R5 -2013- 0019
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -15-
Table 2. Use Area Monitoring

Recycled Water Monitoring Data For Year: ________
Parcel No. ______ of _______ acres
 Water application Nitrogen application
 Water
required Effluent
used Other
water
used Total
irrigation
water As
fertilizer As
effluent* Total
nitrogen
applied
Month Crop (AF) (AF) (AF) (AF) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre)
October
November
December
Subtotal:
January
February
March
Subtotal:
April
May
June
Subtotal:
July
August
September
Subtotal:
Annual Total:
* calculated as (AF effluent/acre) x (2.72) x (X mg/l total nitrogen) = lbs nitrogen/acre





INFORMATION SHEET

INFORMATION SHEET -ORDER R5 -2013- 0019
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY


Background
The City of Tulare Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF) consists of two wastewater treatment
plants (Plant s), the Domestic Plant and Industrial Plant . Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
Order R5 -2002- 0185 authorizes discharge of up to 9.39 mgd of comming led effluent from the two
treatment plants , with provisions for conditional increase in the limit to as much as 14 mgd . The
WWTF receives domestic wastewater (which includes commercial and some industrial wastewater) from the City’s approximately 60,000 r esidents, and, in a segregated stream, industrial wastewater
mainly from six large dairy processing plants, including from what is reportedly the nation’s largest
dairy processing complex, a Land O’Lakes facility. Each treatment plant provides secondary
treatment before the effluent is mixed and discharged to unlined ponds for storage, percolation, and
evaporation. The City delivers undisinfected effluent to nearby lands via subsurface purple pipe for
recycled water projects. The designated recycled water application areas (Use Areas) consist of City -
owned land and other farms growing feed crops not for human consumption. McCarthy Family
Farms, Inc. discharges sludge from the WWTF at its facility in Corcoran as an enrollee under WDRs Order 95 -140, Waste Discharge Requirements General Order for Reuse of Biosolids and Septage on
Agricultural, Forest, and Reclamation Sites .

In 2002, t he Central Valley Water Board found that the City had polluted groundwater with nitrate,
iron, manganese, and salts. Concurrent with the WDRs, the Central Valley Water Board adopted
Cease and Desist Order (CDO) R5-2002 -0186 to address groundwater degradation and other
compliance issues.

The 2002 WDRs set groundwater limits and include a time schedule for the City to demonstrate
compliance with the State’s Antidegradation Policy. To demonstrate consistency with the
Antidegradation Policy, the WDRs require the City to:

1. Determine background groundwater quality;
2. Conduct a Best Practicable Treatment or Control ( BPTC) analysis; and
3. Submit proposed specific numeric groundwater quality limitations reflecting implementation of
BPTC and compliance with applicable water quality objectives, interpreted as described in the
Tulare Lake Basin Plan section entitled “Application of Water Quality Objectives.”

The 2002 CDO was adopted because the City had failed to comply with numerous items in its
previous WDRs, including effluent and groundwater limits, and it would immediately violate the 2002 WDRs. The CD O requires the City to:

1. Prepare a facilities plan (assessing flow, disposal, pollutant free waste, sludge handling, etc.);
2. Revise its Industrial Pretreatment Program (IPP);
3. Implement salinity control;
4. Conduct groundwater and soils investigations; and


INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2013- 0019 -2-
CITY OF TULARE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY



5. Cleanup groundwater.

The City installed additional groundwater monitoring wells, submitted a Facilities Plan, a Salinity
Source Control Plan, groundwater assessments, and implemented changes to its Industrial
Pretreatment Program. The City has completed sig nificant modifications to the WWTF, including:

• In 2006, it added an anoxic basin to the 6.0- mgd Domestic Plant for nitrogen removal.
• In 2006, the City constructed soil cement -lined sludge drying beds for domestic sludge.
• In 2009, the City completed the improvements listed below to upgrade the Industrial Plant to a
12.0- mgd sequential batch reactor (SBR) plant:
o a dissolved air flotation (DAF) unit to remove fats, oils, and grease (FOG) from wastewater
that bypasses the bulk volume fermenter ( Fermenter);
o six sequencing batch reactors (SBRs);
o six denitrifying filters;
o two DAF units for thickening solids generated in the SBRs;
o three anaerobic digesters; and
o 25 acres of soil cement -lined sludge drying beds.
• In 2009, the City completed four additional unlined effluent storage and percolation ponds. The
new ponds increased storage capacity approximately 915 acre -ft for a total of 2,700 acre -feet of
commingled effluent storage.
• Since 2002, the City negotiated contracts and installed pipelines to deliver treated effluent to
nearby farmland for reclamation on about 1,600 additional acres for a total of approximately 2,920
acres (estimated 2, 620 acres to receive effluent) of Use Areas .

The City submitted a Report of Waste Discharge in June 2009 describing the changes the City has
made and intends to make to the WWTF. The WWTF is designed to meet BOD limits and the
anticipated