wastewater treatment and disposal.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2024-0005
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
24c. An evaluation of the Facility’s annual average effluent EC to the Salinity
Action Level of 1,300 µmhos/cm at Monitoring Location EFF -001B and
1,420 µmhos/cm at Monitoring Location EFF -002B. If the facility’s discharge
exceeds the Salinity Action Level, the Discharger shall submit a Salinity
Action Level Report by 1 March of the year following the exceedance of the
Salinity Action Level as described in the WDRs Order.
d. Statement certifying when the flow meters and other monitoring instruments
and devices were last calibrated, include identification of who performed the
calibrations (SPRRs C.4).
e. Results of Municipal Water Supply as specified in Section II.H. If the source
water supply is from more than one source, the Discharger shall calculate
the flow -weighted average concentration for each constituent monitored
(include supporting calculations).
f. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard
Provisions E.4 and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the
previous five calendar years.
g. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting
period. If violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the
corrective actions taken and planned to bring the discharge into full
compliance with this Order.
h. Copy of the Public Water System’s most recent Consumer Confidence
Report.
i. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual,
sampling plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently
constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last
reviewed for adequacy.
j. A discussion of compliance with the WDRs Order and corrective actions
taken, as well as any planned or proposed actions needed to bring the
discharge into compliance with the WDRs.
k. An evaluation of the Facility’s performance, including discussion of capacity
issues, infiltration and inflow rates, nuisance conditions, and forecast of
flows anticipated in the following year (SPRRs E.4).
l. Annual production of total sludge/biosolids in dry tons or cubic yards (if
applicable).
m. A description of the sludge/biosolids disposal methods, including the
following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one
method is used, including the percentage disposed of by each method.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2024-0005
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
25i. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the
Order number of WDRs that regulate it.
ii. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order
number of any WDRs that regulate it.
iii. For incineration, include: the name and locations of the site where
incineration occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the
disposal method of ash, and the name and location of the facility
receiving as (if applicable).
iv. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
B. OTHER REPORTS
1. Analytical Methods Report . The Discharger shall complete and submit an
Analytical Methods Report, electronically via CIWQS submittal . The Analytical
Methods Report shall include the following for each constituent to be monitored in
accordance with this Order: 1) applicable water quality objective, 2) reporting level
(RL), 3) method detection limit (MDL), and 4) analytical method. The an alytical
methods shall be sufficiently sensitive with RLs consistent with the SSM Rule per
40 C.F.R. 122.21(e)(3) and 122.44(i)(1)(iv), and with the Minimum Levels (MLs) in
the SIP, Appendix 4. The “Reporting Level or RL” is synonymous with the “Method
Minimum Level” described in the SSM Rule. If an RL is not less than or equal to the
applicable water quality objective for a constituent, the Discharger shall explain how
the proposed analytical method complies with the SSM Rule as outlined below .
Central Valley Water Board staff will provide a tool with the permit’s Notice of
Adoption to assist the Discharger in completing this requirement. The tool will
include the constituents and associated applicable water quality object ives to be
included in the Analytical Methods Report. The analytical Methods Report must be
submitted by 16 Ma y 2024 .
a. Laboratory analytical methods shall be sufficiently sensitive in accordance with
the Sufficiently Sensitive Methods Rule (SSM Rule) specified under 40 C.F.R.
122.21(e)(3) and 122.44(i)(1)(iv). A U.S. EPA -approved analytical method is
sufficiently sensitive for a pollutant/parameter where:
i. The method minimum level (ML) is at or below the applicable water quality
objective for the