wastewater treatment and disposal system for the community of Pine Grove, including technology improvements,
regionalization opportunities with near by sanitary districts and the
implementation of conservation and reuse strategies.
2. If groundwater monitoring results show that the discharge of waste is causing
groundwater to contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than
background water quality, then within 120 days of the Executive Officer’s request,
the Discharger shall submit a BPTC Evaluation Workplan that sets forth the scope
and schedule for a systematic and comprehensive technical evaluation of treatment
and control measures that address full mitigati on of the source of the exceedance(s).
The schedule should be as short as practical, and should not exceed one year.
3. In accordance with California Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835,
and 7835.1, engineering and geologic evaluati ons and judgments shall be performed
by or under the direction of registered prof essionals competent and proficient in the
fields pertinent to the required activities. All technical reports specified herein that
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003 20
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
contain workplans for investigations and studies, that describe the conduct of
investigations and studies, or that contain technical conclusions and
recommendations concerning engineering and geol ogy shall be prepared by or under
the direction of appropriately qualified professional(s), even if not explicitly stated.
Each technical report submitted by the Discharger shall bear the professional’s
signature and stamp.
4. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R5-
2009-0003, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the
Executive Officer.
5. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Require ments", dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
6. The Discharger shall use the best practi cable cost-effective control technique(s),
including proper operation and maintenance, to comply with discharge limits specified in this order.
7. The Discharger shall utilize certified wa stewater treatment fa cility operators in
accordance with Title 23 CCR, Division 3, Chapter 26.
8. As described in the Standard Provisions, t he Discharger shall report promptly to the
Central Valley Water Board any material change or proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.
9. The Discharger shall comply with the r equirements of the Statewide General Waste
Discharge Requirements (General WDRs) fo r Sanitary Sewer Systems (Water
Quality Order No. 2006-0003), the Revised General WDRs Monitoring and Reporting
Program (Water Quality Order No. 2008-0002-EXEC), and any subsequent revisions
thereto. Upon the reduction, loss, or failure of the sanitary sewer system resulting in
a sanitary sewer overflow, the Discharger shall notify the Central Valley Water Board
in accordance with Water Quality Order No. 2008-0002-EXEC and take any necessary remedial action to (a) control or limit the volume of sewage discharged, (b)
terminate the sewage discharge as rapidly as possible, and (c) recover as much as
possible of the sewage discharged (including wash down water) for proper disposal.
The Discharger shall implement all applicabl e remedial actions including, but not
limited to, the following:
a. Interception and rerouting of sewage flows around the sewage line failure.
b. Vacuum truck recovery of sanitary sewer overflows and wash down water.
c. Use of portable aerators where comple te recovery of the sanitary sewer
overflows are not practicable and where se vere oxygen depletion is expected in
surface waters.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003 21
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
d. Cleanup of sewage-related debris at the overflow site.
e. Disinfection and posting of the area.
10. The Discharger shall report to the Cent ral Valley Water Board any toxic chemical
release data it reports to the Stat e Emergency Response Commission within 15 days
of reporting the data to the Commission pur suant to section 313 of the “Emergency
Planning and Community Right to Know Act of 1986.”
11. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant -free wastewater to be discharged into the
wastewater collection, treatment, and dispos al system in amounts that significantly
diminish the system’s capability to comply wit h this Order. Pollutant-free wastewater
means rainfall, groundwater, cooling wate rs, and condensates that are essentially
free of pollutants.
12. The Discharger shall submit to the Cent ral Valley Water Board on or before each
compliance report due date, the specified docum ent or, if appropriate, a written report
detailing compliance or noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If
noncompliance is being reported, then the Disc harge shall state the reasons for such
noncompliance and provide an estimate of the date when the Discharger will be in
compliance. The Discharger shall notify t he Central Valley Water Board in writing
when it returns to compliance with the time schedule.
13. In the event of any change in control or ownership of the facility or wastewater
disposal areas, the Discharger must notify the succeeding owner or operator of the
existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to
this office. To assume operation as Discharger under this Order, the succeeding owner or operator must apply in writing to the Executive Officer requesting transfer of the Order. The request must contain the r equesting entity's full legal name, the state
of incorporation if a corporation, the name and address and telephone number of the
persons responsible for contact with the Central Valley Water Board, and a statement. The statement shall comply with the signatory par agraph of Standard
Provision B.3 and state that the new owner or operator assumes full responsibility for
compliance with this Order. Failure to submit the request shall be considered a discharge without requirements, a violation of the California Water Code. Transfer shall be approved or disapproved by the Executive Officer.
14. The Discharger must comply with all c onditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement acti on, including Central Valley Water Board or
court orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or recession of this Order.
15. When it appears that any leachfield within the system is showing signs of failure
(sustained wastewater in disposal trenc hes at or near the maximum design depth),
then the Discharger shall increase the fr equency of observation well monitoring and
when this condition cannot be mitigated by distribution system adjustments and the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003
AMADOR WATER AGENCY PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY 22
surfacing of effluent will be otherwise unavoidable, shall initiate construction of the
replacement leachfield.
16. A copy of this Order shall be kept at t he discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
17. The Central Valley Water Board will review this Order periodically and will revise
requirements when necessary.

I, PAMELA C. CREEDON , Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the Califor nia Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 5 February 2009.
___________________________________
PAMELA C. CREEDON , Executive Officer

LFU: 2/17/09
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTIN G PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003
FOR
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) de scribes requirements for monitoring septic
tank, treated effluent, leachfields, groundwater and surface water. This MRP is issued
pursuant to Water Code Section 13267. The Di scharger shall not implement any changes to
this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer. Regional Board staff shall approve specific sample station locations prior to implementation of sampling activities. All samples should be representative of the volu me and nature of the discharge or matrix of
material sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the
sample chain of custody form. Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH and dissolved oxygen) may be used provided that:
1. The operator is trained in proper us e and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to each monitoring event; 3. Instruments are serviced and/or calib rated per the manufacturer’s recommended
frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as de scribed in the “Reporting” section of this
MRP.
SEPTIC TANK MONITORING

The Discharger shall monitor the septic tanks and report this information in the annual reports. Septic tanks shall be inspected annually for the presence of sludge in the second
compartment of each septic tank. If sludge is encountered, then the septic tank shall be
inspected as described in the table below. In addition, the first compartment of each tank
shall be monitored as described below once every three years, even if no sludge is
encountered in the second compartment. Type of Minimum Reporting
Parameter
 Units Measurement Inspection Frequency

Sludge depth and scum Feet Staff Gauge Annually Annually thickness in the first compartment of each septic tank
1

Distance between bottom of Inches Staff Gauge Annually Annually scum layer and bottom of
outlet device
1

Distance between top of Inches Staff Gauge Annually Annually sludge layer and bottom of
outlet device
1
1. The Discharger shall visually inspect the tanks for signs of damages, leakage, or deterioration

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003 -2-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
The Discharger shall retain records of each ins pection, by street address, noting the date and
measured readings and calculations. The Discharger will also record when cleaning is
required, the date of notice to the homeowner, the condition of the tank, and the date that
cleaning or repair occurred and by whom. Copies of the Liquid Waste Hauler manifests shall
be retained for review as with any other reco rd concerning documentation of compliance with
the Order.
EFFLUENT MONITORING PRIOR TO LEACHFIELD

The Discharger shall conduct effluent monitoring of the wastewater entering each leachfield;
samples shall be collected from leachfield dosing tanks. Effluent monitoring shall include, at
a minimum, the following:


Constituents
Units Type of Sample
 Sampling Frequency
 Reporting Frequency

Total Flow to the CLS gpd Meter Weekly Monthly
Flow to each leachfield gpd Calculated1 Weekly Monthly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/l Grab/Composite2 Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/l Grab/Composite2 Quarterly Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/l Grab/Composite2 Quarterly Quarterly
pH Std. Unit Grab/Composite2 Quarterly Quarterly
Standard Minerals 3 mg/l Grab/Composite2 Annually Annually

1. Per dose counter.
2. Grab/Composite indicates samples may be collected by composite sampler or grab method.
3. Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements/compounds: boron, calcium,
chloride, magnesium, potassium, sodium, sulfate, ir on, manganese, total alkalinity (including alkalinity
series), and hardness.

LEACHFIELD AREA MONITORING

The Discharger shall conduct a visual inspection of the leachfields on a weekly basis, and
the results shall be included in the monthly monitoring report. Photocopies of entries into an
operator’s log are acceptable. Evidence of surfacing wastewater, erosion, field saturation, runoff, or the presence of nuisance conditions s hall be noted in the report. If surfacing water
is found, then a sample shall be collected and tested for total coliform organisms and total
dissolved solids. In addition to the visual inspections, monitoring of the leachfields shall include the following:
Constituent
 Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Application Rate1 gal/acre•day Calculated Monthly Monthly
Leachline Riser
Inspection2 Inches Measurement October, December,
February, April, July Monthly

Acreage Applied 3 Acres Calculated Monthly Monthly

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003 -3-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY

 1. The application rate for each leachfield.
2. The Discharger shall measure and record the distance from the surface of the liquid in the observation port
to the surface of the ground in the active lateral(s). In addition, AWA shall record when lateral distribution lines are switched.
 3. Land application areas shall be identified and a map identifying all land application areas included.

GROUNDWATER MONITORING

Prior to construction and/or sampling of any groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger
shall submit plans and specifications to the Board for review and approval. All wells identified in the groundwater monitoring well network in the Findings of this Order, as well as any wells
installed after adoption of this Order, shall be sampled and analyzed according to the schedule below. Prior to sampling, groundwater elevations s hall be measured and the wells shall be purged at
least three well volumes until temperature, pH , and electrical conductivity have stabilized.
Depth to groundwater shall be measured to the nearest 0.01 feet. Water table elevations shall be calculated and used to determine groundw ater gradient and direction of flow.
Samples shall be collected using approved EPA methods. Groundwater monitoring shall
include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent
 Units Type of
Sample Sampling and
Reporting Frequency
Groundwater Elevation1 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 Feet Calculated Quarterly
Gradient Feet/Feet Calculated Quarterly
Gradient Direction Degrees Calculated Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms2 MPN/100ml Grab Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/l Grab Quarterly
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/l Grab Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/l Grab Quarterly
pH Std. Unit Grab Quarterly
Standard Minerals3 mg/l Grab Annually


1. Groundwater elevation shall be based on depth-to-water using a surveyed measuring point elevation on the
well and a surveyed reference elevation.
 2. Using a minimum of 15 tubes or 3 dilutions.
 3. Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements and compounds: Boron, Calcium,
Chloride, Iron, Manganese, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium, Sulfate, Total Alkalinity (including alkalinity series), and Hardness.

SURFACE WATER MONITORING

The Discharger shall observe Jackson Creek mont hly for the presence of water in the creek.
When water is present, the following surface water monitoring shall apply. The Discharger
shall establish three sampling stations. The intent of the monitoring stations are to monitoring
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003 -4-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
surface water quality upstream of the entire leachfield system, at an area of possible
influence from the leachfield disposal and then downstream of the entire leachfield system.
So, one station (S-1) shall be about 100 feet upstream of the leachfield disposal area of
Phase 1, one station (S-2) shall be in proximity of the leachfield disposal area between Phase
1 and Phase 2, and one station (S-3) shall be 100 feet downstream of Phase 2.

Constituents Units Type of
Sample Sampling and
Reporting Frequency
Total Dissolved Solids mg/l Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/l Grab Quarterly
Chloride mg/l Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100ml Grab Quarterly

If samples cannot be collected because water is not present in Jackson Creek, then the
Discharger shall so note on t he monthly monitoring report.

REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger sha ll arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, sample type (e.g., effluent, leachfield, etc.), and reported analytical result for each
sample are readily discernible. The data sha ll be summarized in such a manner to clearly
illustrate compliance with waste discharge requi rements and spatial or temporal trends, as
applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations
specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Progr am shall be reported in the next scheduled
monitoring report. As required by the California Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, all Groundwater Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct supervision of a Registered Engineer or Geologist and signed by the registered professional.

A. Monthly Monitoring Reports

Weekly, monthly monitoring data shall be repor ted in monthly monitoring reports. Monthly
reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board on the 1
st day of the second month
following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 March). At a minimum, the reports
shall include:
1. Results of effluent and leachfield monitoring;
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications and an explanation of
any violation of those requirements. Da ta shall be presented in tabular format;
3. If requested by staff, copies of laboratory analytical report(s); and
4. A calibration log verifying calibration of all hand held monitoring instruments and
devices used to comply with the prescribed monitoring program.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003 -5-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
B. Quarterly Report

The Discharger shall establish a quarterly sampling schedule for effluent and groundwater
monitoring such that samples are obtained appr oximately every three months. Quarterly
monitoring reports shall be subm itted to the Board by the 1st day of the second month after
the quarter (i.e. the January-March quarterly reports is due by May 1st) and may be
combined with the monthly report. The moni toring report shall present a summary of
monitoring data from each monitoring well using the methods described in Title 27, Section
20415(e)(10). The Quarterly Repor t shall include the following:
1. Results of effluent, groundwater and surface water monitoring;
2. Complete copy of the results of the monitoring data of the community water supply
obtained from the Pine Grove Community Servic e District or the California Department
of Public Health, including its EC/TDS data;
3. A narrative description of all preparatory, monitoring, sampling, and analytical testing
activities for the groundwater monitoring. T he narrative shall be sufficiently detailed to
verify compliance with the WDR, this MRP, and the Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements. The narrative shall be supported by field logs for each well
documenting depth to groundwat er; parameters measured bef ore, during, and after
purging; method of purging; calculation of casing volume; and total volume of water
purged;
4. Calculation of groundwater elevations, an assessment of groundwater flow direction
and gradient on the date of measurement, comparison of previous flow direction and gradient data, and discussion of seasonal trends if any;
5. A narrative discussion of the analytical results for all groundwater locations monitored
including spatial and temporal tends, with re ference to summary data tables, graphs,
and appended analytical reports (as applicable);
6. A comparison of monitoring data to t he effluent and groundwater limitations and an
explanation of any violati on of those requirements;
7. Summary data tables of historical and cu rrent water table elevations and analytical
results;
8. A scaled map showing relevant structures and features of the facility, the locations of
monitoring wells and any other sampling stat ions, and groundwater elevation contours
referenced to mean sea level datum; and
9. Copies of laboratory analytical report(s) for groundwater monitoring.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003 -6-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
C. Annual Report

An Annual Report shall be prepared as the Decem ber monthly monitoring report. The Annual
Report will include all monitoring data required in the monthly schedule. The Annual Report
shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February each year. In addition to the data
normally presented, the Annual R eport shall include the following:
1. The contents of the regular monthly and quarterly monitori ng report for the last month
and quarter of the year;
2. The results from annual monitori ng of the effluent, groundwater.
3. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the
year;
4. A discussion of any data gaps and potent ial deficiencies/redundancies in the
monitoring system or reporting program;
5. An evaluation of the groundwater qua lity beneath the land application areas;
6. An evaluation of the performance of the CLS, including discussion of capacity, effluent
distribution, leachfield erosion, and a forecast of the flows anticipated in the next year.
7. A description of any activity to cont rol vegetation in the leachfield area;
8. Annual summary of the septic tank ins pections for the year, including the number of
tanks on which notifications for cleaning were issued, and verification that those tanks
were pumped and that waste was removed by a licensed hauler;
9. A statement of when the O&M Manual was last reviewed for adequacy, and a
description of any changes made during the year;
10. Equipment maintenance and calibration reco rds, as described in Standard Provision
No. C.4;
11. A copy of the certification for each ce rtified wastewater treatment plant operator
working at the facility and a statement about whether the Discharger is in compliance
with Title 23, CCR, Division 3, Chapter 26.
12. A discussion of the following:
a. Salinity reduction efforts implemented in accordance with any required workplan;
b. Other best practical treatment and contro l measures implemented pursuant to any
approved BPTC workplan (if required by the Executive Officer); and
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2009-0003 -7-
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY
c. Based on monitoring data, an evaluati on of the BPTC measures that were
implemented.

A letter transmitting the self-monitoring reports shall accompany each report. Such a letter
shall include a discussion of requirement violations found during t he reporting period, and
actions taken or planned for correcting noted vi olations, such as operation or facility
modifications. If the discharger has previous ly submitted a report describing corrective
actions and/or a time schedule for implementi ng the corrective actions, reference to the
previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The transmittal letter shall contain the penalty of perjury statement by the discharger, or t he Discharger's authorized agent, as described in
the Standard Provisions General Reporting Requirements Section B.3.

The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
 Ordered by: _____________________________________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

 5 February 2009
 (Date)

INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003 AMADOR WATER AGENCY PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

Background

The Amador Water Agency (Discharger) is pl anning the Pine Grove Community Leachfield
System (CLS) Phase 2 (expansion) that will resu lt in capacity increase. Phase 2 will serve
75 equivalent dwelling units (E DUs) of future residential and commercial developments.
 The CLS includes the effluent collection system, and the community leachfield that treats and disposes of wastewater generated by the Pi ne Grove community in Amador County. The
Discharger owns and operates t he CLS, and is responsible for the proper design, operation,
and maintenance of the CLS. The construction of the Phase 1 (existing) CL S, was funded using the State Revolving Fund
Loan Program and began operation in April 2001. Prior to cons truction of the CLS, the
community of Pine Grove was served by indi vidual waste treatment and disposal systems,
many of which were identified as being deficient and placed in areas with poor soils and high groundwater. In April 1997, t he Amador County Environmental Health Department’s Health
Officer issued a declaration stating that failin g and inadequate individual waste treatment and
disposal systems created a continuing health hazard and posed a potential threat to surface and groundwater quality. Therefore, Pine Gr ove Community and Amador County were in
support of constructing a wastewater collection system and disposal system.

Effluent Collection System

On March 9, 2007, the Discharge r submitted a Report of Wast e Discharge (RWD) for updating
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) to regulate the Phase 1 and Phase 2 CLSs.
 The capacity of Phase 1 is 28,700 gpd. Its service area comprises 144 equivalent dwelling
units (EDUs) with a 1:1 ratio of residential to commercial properti es. As of July 2007, 76 EDUs
had been connected to the CLS. Each existing or future residential property connected to
Phase 1 has or will have a 1,500-gallon septic t ank, which provides prim ary treatment for the
raw sewage discharged from each dwelling. The Phase 2 leachfield will have a capacity of 15,000 gpd, and will be bu ilt in multiple
construction efforts on 8.6-acre disposal area south to the Phase 1 leachfield. The 75 EDUs
will include 28 units within the proposed Pine Grove Bluffs s ubdivision and another 47 units
elsewhere in Pine Grove, none of which have been constructed yet. The rati o of residential to
commercial properties will be 1:4. Each residential property will have a 1,500-gallon septic
tank, which will be hooked up to the Phase 2 CLS. Septic tanks provide primary tr eatment of the domestic wastew ater. Septic tank chambers
capture and store solids while t hey undergo anaerobic decomposition. The exit of the second
chamber draws from the tank below the scum and above the sludge, and it is imperative that
INFORMATION SHEET -2-
ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY


regular inspections and cleanings assure that neither the sludge layer nor the scum layer
increases to the extent that particulates are scoured and discharged from the tanks. In order
to ensure the proper operation of the septic tanks, the Discharger performs annual inspections
of septic tanks.
 For the Phase 1 and Phase 2 CLS, the effluent fr om each dwelling septic tank is pumped via a
submersible pump to sewer trunk lines installed on either side of Highway 88. The trunk lines
manifold into a welded HDPE pipe for delivery to the dosing tanks locat ed near the intersection
of State Route 88 and Ridge Road.
Leachfield Disposal

Phase 1 CLS has five 4,000-gallon dosing tanks, and each dosing tank has two dosing siphons. The dose per discharge is approximat ely 1,740 gallons. This leachfield has
21,300 feet of pressure dose leachlines and is divided into ten individual leachfields.
Discharge to each disposal line is controlled by 1-1/2 inch ball valves, which allow equal
distribution to all lines despite varying elevat ion heads. The wastewater application rate is
1.35 gpd per lineal foot of lateral leachline. T he disposal trenches are approximately three feet
wide by two feet deep. The Phase 2 will have two 5, 000-gallon dosing tanks and each dosing tank will include two
dosing siphons. The dosing rate required to each proposed CLS is appr oximately 225 gpm,
and siphons will deliver about 338 gpm. This leac hfield will have 10,000 ft of pressure dosed
leachlines, which will be divided into four individual leachfields with an application rate of 1.5
gpd per lineal foot of lateral leachline. Each leachfield will have at least one main valve and
each individual line will have a throttling valve. New flow splitters are necessary on the Phase
2 area to split upstream of t he Phase 1 flow, and flow betw een new siphons. The disposal
trenches are approximately three f eet wide by three feet deep.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

Surface water drainage from the Pine Grove leachf ield is to Jackson Creek, a tributary to Dry
Creek; Dry Creek flows into t he Mokelumne River, downstream of Camanche Reservoir. The
beneficial uses downstream of t he Camanche Reservoir are agricultural supply; water contact
recreation; non-contact water recreation; warm and cold freshwater habitat; migration of
aquatic organisms; spawning, reproduction, and/or early development; and wildlife habitat.
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sa cramento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fourth Edition (Basin Plan) designates benefici al uses, establishes water quality objectives,
and contains implementation plans and policies for all waters of the Basin. Beneficial uses
often determine the water quality obj ectives that apply to a water body. For example, waters
designated as municipal and domestic supply mu st, at a minimum, m eet the California
maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for drinki ng water. The Basin Plan sets forth the
applicable beneficial uses (industrial supply, agr icultural supply, and municipal and domestic

INFORMATION SHEET -3-
ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY


supply in this instance) of gr oundwater, procedure for applicati on of water quality objectives,
and the process for and factors to consider in allocating waste assimilation capacity.

Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resoluti on No. 68-16, “Statement of
Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters in California,” or “Antidegradation
Policy” require that waters of the State that are better in quality than established water quality
objectives be maintained “consistent with the ma ximum benefit to the peop le of the State.”
Waters can be of high quality for some cons tituents or beneficial us es and not others.
Policies and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan. The RWD contained an antidegradation analysis for th e expansion. It is appropriate to allow
some groundwater degradation as long as it is consistent with the Basin Plan and Resolution
No. 68-16 because economic prosperity of local co mmunities and associated industry is of
benefit to the people of California. This Order establishes te rms and conditions of discharge
to ensure that the discharge does not unreasonabl y affect present and anticipated uses of
groundwater and includes groundw ater limitations that appl y water quality objectives
established in the Basin Plan to protect beneficial uses.

Treatment Technology and Control
The Discharger currently provi des treatment and control of t he discharge that incorporates:
a. Water tight testing for all site septic tanks;
b. Installing effluent filters on septic tank discharge plumbing, which will reduce BOD
and TSS of effluent to leachfields;
c. Pressure dosing and rotating of dosed fiel ds, which will optimiz e equal distribution
throughout leachfield and aer obic conditions in trenches;
d. Minimizing the load to any one location within the leachfield, thereby maximizing
treatment/disposal potential of leachfield field;
e. A Sanitary Sewer Operation, Maint enance, Overflow Prevention and Response
Plan;
f. An operation and maintenance (O&M) manual; and
g. Certified operators to ensure proper operation and maintenance.

In addition, the slopes of the leachfield range fr om 18 to 50%, some of which are greater than
the maximum 30% slopes allowed by the Basin Plan . For the Phase 1 leachfield, the disposal
trench inverts are two feet or less above bedrock, less than the fi ve-foot separation allowed by
the Basin Plan. Accordingly, the leachfields may pose slope stability problems when saturated and there is an increased probabilit y that the effluent will fail to meet minimum performance
standards (e.g., prevention of pollution) for s ubsurface disposal systems. These waste

INFORMATION SHEET -4-
ORDER NO. R5-2009-0003
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
PINE GROVE COMMUNITY LEACHFIELD SYSTEM AMADOR COUNTY


discharge requirements require that the Discharger implement corrective measures to meet
water quality objectives and to appropriate ly maintain and operate the systems.

The existing leachfield design assumes sust ained infiltration through the entire bottom and
sidewall area of the disposal trenches, which is not a conservative design. It is imperative that
extraneous water sources be precluded from entering the effluent collection system and
leachfield area.

Discharge Prohibition s and Specifications

The Order allows the flow rate to increase from 28,700 gpd to 43,700 pgd, based on submittal
of construction completion reports and appr oval by the Executive Officer.
 Domestic wastewater contains numerous dissolv ed inorganic waste constituents (i.e., salts,
minerals) that together comprise total dissolved solids (TDS). The relevant numerical water
quality limit for TDS is 450 mg/l, which is us ed through Basin Plan procedures to apply the
narrative Chemical Constituents water quality objec tive for the protection of agricultural supply,
the beneficial use most sensitive to TDS. The proposed Order contains groundwater limit of
310 mg/l, which was requested by the Discharger and is appropriate for this facility. Most
individual salt components can safely be assum ed to be proportionately low such that TDS can
be an effective indicator in their regulation. This Order sets a numerical groundwater limitation of 2. 2 MPN/100ml for total coliform
organisms, and a limitation of ni trate as nitrogen of 10 mg/l to protect the municipal and
domestic use of groundwater. These limits are wate r quality objective fo r groundwater in the
basin plan.
This Order sets an