BEAR VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of a comminutor; biological treatment in
a 14.18-million gallon aeration pond; disinfection in a 12,000-gallon chlorine contact
tank; and effluent storage and polishing in a 76.4-million gallon unlined
storage/polishing reservoir. The aeration pond is split into two equal sections by a
cedar tongue and groove timber baffle. Air is delivered to the aeration pond via one
40 HP, variable frequency drive (VFD) equipped Gardner Denver positive
displacement blower to twelve (12) Triplepoint Mars T-Series Double BubbleTM fine
and coarse bubble diffusers. Inline YSI sensors communicate with the VFD blower
by way of the SCADA system to keep dissolved oxygen (DO) and suspended solids
(TSS) at optimum levels. Treated effluent from the aeration pond is then disinfected
by use of chlorine gas during transfer via (2) - 375 gallon per minute (GPM) Paco
pumps through a 12,000 gallon chlorine contact tank. The disinfected effluent is then
placed into storage and receives further treatment in a 76.4 MG storage/polishing
reservoir... Effluent from the storage/polishing reservoir is disposed of through spray
irrigation during the summer months (June through October), which is regulated by
WDR Order 5- 01-208. The Facility capacity allows for retention of wastewater for the
remainder of the year; however, there may be instanced where a discharge to
surface water may occur.
The actual wastewater load on the pond system is so low (2019 average flow was
0.059 MGD, of which approximately 0.023 MGD is inflow and infiltration, or I/I), that
material sludge accumulation on the bottom of the pond system has not been
observed to date. Facility staff measures for sludge accumulation annually, but the
Facility does not generate sludge on a regular basis.
The Discharger currently has 80 acres of land available for use in wastewater
treatment, storage, and disposal, none of which are owned by the Discharger. The
Discharger leases 40 acres of private land and 40 acres from the U.S. Forest
Service under Special Use Permit (SUP) No. 1029- 01.
The effluent disposal potential of the Facility is less than the amount of total water
(i.e., influent wastewater, precipitation, and groundwater entering the system).
Additional land for expansion of the existing land disposal and reclamation facilities
is not currently available. During some wet years, the Discharger has entered the
winter season with a substantial amount of water still in its storage/polishing
reservoir from the previous winter. This resulted in unauthorized discharges from the
storage/polishing reservoir to Bloods Creek at the end of the snowmelt seasons in
the late 1990’s, with the most recent discharge occurring in 1999. The Discharger
attributed the unauthorized discharges to lack of adequate storage capacity,
excessive I/I, consecutive wet years, and heavy snowmelt. To address the
unauthorized discharges, the Central Valley Water Board adopted Cease and Desist
Order (CDO) Nos. 5- 00-001 and 5- 01-209. In response to CDO No. 5- 01-209, the
Discharger submitted a Land Disposal Maximization Plan in February 2002, which
evaluated the feasibility of options that would either minimize flow to the land
disposal facilities or maximize the land disposal capacity of the Facility. The ORDER R5-2 022-0037
NPDES NO. CA
0085146
BEAR VALLEY WATER DISTRICT
BEAR VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6Discharger chose to implement five options from the plan and concluded that if the
chosen plan were implemented, land disposal capacity would be increased by 81
million gallons. The options chosen included design and implementation of a water
conservation program, implementation of an I/I program, and evaluation for the
potential to increase irrigation application by evaluating potential expansion of land
disposal areas. Based on the Discharger’s initial steps taken in implementing the
plan and the commitment to implement the plan in its entirety, the Central Valley
Water Board rescinded CDO No. 5- 01-209 on 7 June 2002. The Discharger has
continued to implement a water conservation program and I/I program. As discussed
above, the Discharger has maintained a total of 80 acres of usable disposal area.
The Facility has a design treatment capacity of 0.50 MGD. The surface water
discharges occur from the storage/polishing pond through an outfall that has a
design capacity of 2.5 MGD. Therefore, this Order authorizes the discharge of up to
a maximum daily effluent flow of 2.5 MGD from the storage/polishing reservoir to
Bloods Creek. Discharges to Bloods Creek are allowed only during snowmelt
season (i.e., 1 January through 30 June) and only when the effluent receives at least
20:1 dilution from the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementingORDER R5-2 022-0037
NPDES NO. CA
0085146
BEAR VALLEY WATER DISTRICT
BEAR VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point
source discharges from this Facility to surface waters.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the provisions of c hapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
division 13 of the Public Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plans . Requirements of this Order specifically
implement the applicable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basin Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fifth Edition, May 2018 (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial
uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation
programs and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed
through the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan.
The Basin Plan at s ection 2.1 states that the beneficial uses of any
specifically identified water body generally apply to its tributary streams .
The Basin Plan in Table 2-1, section 2, does not specifically identify
beneficial uses for Bloods Creek, but does identify present and potential
uses for the North Fork Stanislaus River from its source to New Melones
Reservoir, to which Bloods Creek is tributary . In addition, the Basin Plan
implements State Water Board Resolution 88-63, which established state
policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered
suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply (MUN).
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to Bloods Creek are as follows:
Table F-3 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point