wastewater treatment and disposal;
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0150 -9-
FRESNO COUNTY JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF FRESNO COUNTY



 2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, includi ng identification of who performed the
calibrations (standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the curr ent operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as cu rrently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conduc ted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
6. The most recent water suppl y report including laboratory data;
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids; b. A schematic diagram showing sl udge handling facilities and solids flow
diagram; and
c. A description of disposal methods, in cluding the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method.

i. For landfill disposal , include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifi cations of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the fa cilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs t hat regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Or der numbers of WDRs that regulate
the site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
8. A summary of all recycled water operations for the previous year (i.e., from October
through September). The summary shall discuss total monthly water application;
total wastewater recycled annually; total nutrient loading annually from applied wastewater, biosolids, and chemical fert ilizers; and total estimated amount of
nutrients removed through crop harvest. The summary shall also review the use area management plan (described in Prov ision F.7) and make recommendations
regarding continuation or modification of the plan. In short, the summary shall
present a mass balance relative to consti tuents of concern and hydraulic loading
along with supporting data and calculations.
9. A summary and discussion of the complianc e record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0150 -10-
FRESNO COUNTY JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF FRESNO COUNTY



 Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report shall be prepared as a
fourth quarter groundwater monitoring repor t. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring
Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly
groundwater monitoring schedule plus the resu lts of any annually sampled groundwater
constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally
presented in the quarterly groundwater moni toring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
2. Graphs of the analytical data for all samples collected from each monitoring well
for at least five calender years. Each su ch graph shall plot over time for a given
monitoring well the concentration of one or more waste constituents specified
herein and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs shall be plotted at a scale appropriate to show tr ends or variations in water quality, and
shall plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the prev ious monitring events for at least the
last five calendar years.

All technical reports required herein must be ov erseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
 All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3. A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any violations during the reporting period and all acti ons taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time sc hedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order. PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer __________26 October 2007_________

 (Date) KC/DKP/kes: 7/25/07
INFORMATION SHEET
 R5-2007-0150 FRESNO COUNTY JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF FRESNO COUNTY



 Background
Fresno County (hereafter the Discharger or County) owns and operates a wastewater
collection, treatment, and disposal facility (WWTF) for the Juvenile Justice Campus (Facility)
at 3333 American Avenue. The Facility is to be developed in four phases to accommodate
the County’s needs over the next 40 years. The first phase (Phas e 1) was completed in 2006.
 The WWTF was designed and constructed to pr ocess wastewater generated from the
restroom and laundryroom facilities. No out side sewer mains or industrial discharges are
conneted to the Facility’s sewer system. Th e WWTF has an average daily flow design of
0.12 million gallons per day (mgd). The WWTF provid es disinfected tertiary treatement of the
waste streams. Treatm ent includes influent screening flow equalization, trickling filtration,
clarification, chemical addition, fl occulation, digestion, tertiary f iltration, and disinfection. The
treated effluent is stored in two lined effluent storage ponds and used to supplement irrigation
of landscaped areas in and around the Facility incl uding recreational areas utilized by juvenile
inmates. According to the Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) the treatm ent process will meet
Title 22 standards for unres tricted irrigation.
 Flow data from Phase 1 will be used to modify the wastewater generation factors used to
determine the required capacity for future phases. The County anticipates that they will need
to expand the capacity of the WWTF in six to 15 years.

Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Sludge Handling: Settled sludge in the clarifier tanks is pumped to the aerated sludge storage
tank for digestion and storage where it will thi cken. Decant water from the sludge storage
tank is returned to the flow equa lization tank for processing through the WWTF. The sludge is
then transferred to a second sludge tank and mix ed with the screenings prior to disposal.
Initially, the liquid sludge will be trucked offsite for disposal at an authorized facility. Sludge
disposal volume for Phase 1 is approximately 5,000 gallons per week. The use of a sludge-
dewatering device, such as a sludge bagging unit, scr ew press, or centri fuge will be evaluated
when the volume of sludge increases sufficiently to justify the capital cost and additional labor.

Groundwater Conditions
Groundwater in the project area is encountered at about 55 feet below ground surface (bgs)
and flows west-southwest, according to information in Lines of Equal Elevation of Water in
Wells in Unconfined Aquifer, published by Departm ent of Water Resources in Spring 2004.
In 2006 the Discharger installed five groundwa ter monitoring wells to monitor shallow
groundwater in the vicinity of the WWTF and effluent storage ponds. Based on existing
groundwater data, shallow gr oundwater beneath the WWTF is generally of good quality
except for nitrate. The av erage EC of groundwater is 760 um hos/cm and TDS is 540 mg/L.
Nitrate concentrations in groundwater are in exce ss of the primary MCL of 45 mg/L. Based on
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2007-0150 -2-
FRESNO COUNTY JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF FRESNO COUNTY



 the data available, groundwater in the vicinity of the project area has no further assimilative
capacity for nitrogen.

Compliance History
The Discharger has submitted monthly SMRs in compliance with the Tentative Monitoring and
Reporting Program issued by t he Executive Officer in February 2006. The EC and TDS
concentrations in the effluent are much higher than those projected in the RWD (Estimated
300 µmhos/cm over source; Actual 700 µmhos/cm over source).
 An Inspection by staff identified several boilers and a water softener that were not identified in
the RWD. An email from the County indicated that the boilers are in a closed system, except
for one boiler. That boiler and the water softener are connected to the laundry facilities. An
investigation by the County det ermined that the water softener is backwashed one time per
month and that only one bag (100 lbs) of salt has been used since the facility began
operations, so it is likely not the source of th e high EC. The Discharger contends that the high
EC is because of water conservation measures at the Facility. However, staff suspects that a
contributing source for the high EC may also be the detergents used in the laundry.

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The Basin Plan indicates the gr eatest long-term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake Basin
is increasing salinity in groundwater , a process accelerated by man’ s activities and particularly
affected by intensive irrigated agriculture. Th e Basin Plan recognizes that degradation is
unavoidable until there is a long-term solution to the salt imbalance. The Regional Water
Board encourages proactive management of waste streams by dischargers to control addition
of salt through use, and has established an incr emental EC limitation of 500 µmhos/cm or a
1,000 µmhos/cm, as the measure of the maximum permissible ad dition of salt constituents
through use. Discharges to areas that ma y recharge good quality groundwater s shall not exceed an EC of
1,000 µmhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or boron content of 1.0 mg/L.

Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resoluti on No. 68-16, “Statement of
Policy With Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters in California,” or “Antidegradation
Policy” require that waters of the State that are better in qua lity than established water quality
objectives be maintained “consistent with the maxi mum benefit to the peo ple of the State.”
Waters can be of high quality for some constit uents or beneficial uses and not others. Policy
and procedures for complying with this di rective are set forth in the Basin Plan.
 Constitutes of concern that have the potentia l to degrade groundwater include, in part,
nutrients and salts. However, the discharge will likely not degrade the beneficial uses of
groundwater because:
INFORMATION SHEET R5-2007-0150 -3-
FRESNO COUNTY JUVENILE JUSTICE CAMPUS WWTF FRESNO COUNTY



 a. For salinity, the Basin Plan contains

===PLANNED CHANGES===

