wastewater
treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency and
routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibration (Standard Provision C.4).
Reports submitted concerning WWTF performance must also be signed and certified by the chief
plant operator. When reports contain laboratory analyse s performed by the Discharger and the
chief plant operator is not in the direct line of supervision of the laboratory, reports must also be
signed and certified by the chief of the laboratory.
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manua l, and contingency plan, reflect
the wastewater treatment facility as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these
documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 a nd a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the past five years.
6. The most recent LNAS annual water supply report.
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids.
b. A schematic diagram showing sl udge handling facilities and solids flow diagram.
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the
disposal methods used at each WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the
percentage of annual sludge production disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal , include: (a) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c) the names
and locations of the facilities receiving sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the Order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where sludge
incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the site(s), (c) the
disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if
applicable).
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the Order numbers of
any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
MONITORillG AND REPORTrnG PROGRAM NO. RS-2002-0062 -,7-
U.S. DEPART!Y.IENT OFNAVYLNAS 'vVWTF .
KINGS COUNTY
8. A summary and discussion of the measures taken to eliminate dichloromethane from.the industrial
WWTF discharge.
9. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have
· occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the
discharge into full compliance with this-Order.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on.the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order. ·
26 April 2002
(Date)
RAS/JLK:fmc: 4/26/2002




INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER NO. R5 -2002 -0062
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF NAVY LE MOORE NAVAL AIR STATION
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KINGS COUNTY

Background

The U. S. Department of Navy, Lemoore Naval Air Station (LNAS or Discharger), operates industrial
and domestic wastewater treatment facilities (WWTFs) about six miles west of the City of Lemoore in
Kings County. About 90 percent of the wastewa ter discharged to the industrial WWTF consists of
washdown from aircraft washing. The remaining wastewater discharged to the industrial WWTF
includes washdown from jet engine test cells and bearings and brake shops. Domestic wastewater
generated from sta tion personnel and about 15,000 residents, industrial WWTF effluent, shallow
groundwater from construction dewatering, and filter backwash water from the onsite water treatment
plant are discharged to the domestic WWTF. Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 86-173
prescribes terms and conditions for the industrial and domestic WWTFs. The industrial WWTF has a
design capacity of 0.05 mgd and currently treats a monthly average flow of 0.014 mgd, while the
domestic WWTF has a design capacity of 2.12 mgd and currently treats an average monthly flow of
about 1.9 mgd. The Discharger disposes of wastewater by evaporation in ponds overlying low
permeable soils.

History of the Wastewater Treatment Facilities

The LNAS was commissioned in 1961 to provide trainin g operations for fleet jet aircraft crew
personnel. Wastewater flow originates from an Operations Area and an Administration Area. The
Operations Area generates about 0.02 mgd of industrial wastewater and about 0.2 mgd of domestic
wastewater, while the A dministration Area generates about 1.8 mgd of domestic wastewater. Until the
Discharger completed a pipeline project in 1984, the Discharger treated these wastestreams in three
separate WWTFs.

Between 1964 and 1974, the Discharger conveyed effluent fro m the Administration Area WWTF to the
Kings River via a 0.75 -mile unlined ditch. During this time, the Administrative Area WWTF consisted
of trickling filters and sedimentation basins with a design flow of 2.0 mgd. The Discharger also
discharged storm wa ter to the unlined ditch and continues to do so during periods of storm runoff. In
1975, the Discharger installed the current pond system that consists of two stabilization ponds and three
evaporation ponds that total 340 acres. The pond system eliminate d the Discharger’s need to discharge
treated wastewater from the Administration Area to the Kings River.

Until 1984, the Discharger also used a trickling filter plant with a design flow of 0.3 mgd to treat
domestic wastewater from its Operations Area. Th e Discharger treated industrial wastewater separately
and disposed of effluent from the Operations Areas (i.e., both domestic and industrial wastewater) by
irrigating fodder and fiber crops under the terms and conditions of Waste Discharge Requirements Ord er
No. 75 -168. This discharge was supposed to be contained to land; however, increases in tailwater flow
and storm water runoff from agricultural land upgradient of LNAS caused treated wastewater to
discharge to the Kings River. Accordingly, the Regional Board adopted Order No. 82 -034, which
included a time schedule for the Discharger to implement corrective measures to eliminate the discharge
of treated wastewater to the Kings River. To comply, the Discharger indicated that it would construct
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. R5 -2002 -0062 -2-
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF NAVY LNAS WWTF
KINGS COUNTY

facilities to convey wastes from the Operations Area to the Administrative Area WWTF. The
Discharger continued to use its industrial WWTF for treating waste generated from washing aircrafts,
but abandoned its Operations Area domestic WWTF and started piping raw dom estic wastewater and
industrial effluent from the Operations Area to the Administrative Area in 1984. Since 1984 the
Discharger’s treatment of domestic WWTF has gone unchanged, while it has made several
modifications to its industrial WWTF to improve the quality of industrial effluent.

Wastewater Process Flow

Industrial wastewater is screened and then pumped to an oil and water separator from which it is
pumped to a holding tank. From the holding tank, wastewater is pumped to one of two parallel
treatment trains that consist of a second oil and water separator, alum mixing tank, polymer mixing tank,
dissolved air flotation unit, lime mixing tank, a second polymer mixing tank, and a sedimentation basin.
LNAS adds alum and polymers to enhance flocculat ion, and adds lime to remove metals. After the
sedimentation basin, LNAS adjusts the pH of wastewater with sulfuric acid before discharging it to the
Operations Area domestic sewage trunk line.

LNAS routes domestic wastewater through two “muffin monsters ” then discharges it to two stabilization
ponds (Ponds A and B), which operate in series and are designed to be facultative (i.e., wastewater is
stratified into three layers: an anaerobic bottom layer, an aerobic surface layer, and an intermediate
layer) . In the middle and bottom of each stabilization pond there is a 400 -foot square concrete structure
into which influent is discharged. The concrete structures serve to accumulate sludge. From Pond B,
LNAS has the option to discharge wastewater via sluice gates to one of three evaporation ponds. The
ponds have the following dimensions:

Pond Designation Surface Area (acres) Depth (feet) Volume (acre -feet)

Pond A 28 8 224
Pond B 18 8 144
Pond 1 116 10 1,160
Pond 2 100 10 1,000
Pond 3 81 10 810

Currently, LNAS discharges Pond B effluent to Pond 1. When Pond 1 nears its hydraulic capacity,
LNAS discharges excess water from Pond 1 to Pond 2. The Discharger also recycles effluent via a
recirculation pump from Pond 1 to Ponds A and B, as necessary, to control odors and provide dilution of
wastewater entering the stabilization ponds. The Discharger does not currently discharge effluent
directly to Pond 3. To ensure that effluent does not percolate to groundwater and adversely affec t
farming activities (i.e., create drainage problems), LNAS installed a leachate collection system around
its ponds. The leachate collection system also serves to dewater nearby farmland. LNAS discharges
collected leachate exclusively to Pond 3 for final disposal via evaporation.

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. R5 -2002 -0062 -3-
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF NAVY LNAS WWTF
KINGS COUNTY

Sludge Process Flow

From its industrial WWTF, the Discharger discharges sludge from the holding tank, first -phase oil and
water separator, and sedimentation basin to a sludge holding tank, then to a 1,200 -gallon metal
diatom aceous earth tank before dewatering it with a pressure filter press. All leachate and decant are
recycled back to the headworks of the industrial WWTF. The spent diatomaceous earth and sludge are
landfilled at Chemical Waste Management’s Kettleman Hills Facility, which the Regional Board
regulates by Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 98-058.

According to the Discharger’s 1995 Sewage Sludge Management Plan , a survey crew made soundings
of the top of the sludge layer in domestic WWTF ponds by using a prism attached to a rigid PVC pole.
The resulting depths were compared with the as -built plans for the ponds to determine that about 0.5 feet
of sludge had accumulated in each of the five ponds. This equates to a sludge build -up rate of about
0.3 inch/ye ar. The Discharger’s 1995 Sewage Sludge Management Plan also indicated that it would
take sixty years for sludge to accumulate to levels that would affect the ponds’ treatment process, as the
WWTF’s facultative ponds are 8 feet deep and capable of providi ng adequate treatment at a minimum
depth of 4.5 feet.

Compliance Issues

Order No. 86 -173 specifies that dissolved oxygen levels in domestic WWTF ponds shall not be less than
1 mg/L and that effluent from the industrial discharge shall (1) have a pH bet ween 6.5 and 8.5 and
(2) not exceed an EC of 1,000 µmhos/cm, oil and grease of 15 mg/L, TSS of 60 mg/L, total cyanide of
0.43 mg/L, copper of 3.38 mg/L, nickel of 0.1 mg/L, total chromium of 0.5 mg/L, zinc of 2.61 mg/L,
lead of 0.5 mg/L, and cadmium of 0.1 mg/L.

The Discharger has chronically violated its industrial