existing facility was previously permitted for 80,000 gpd and consists of an influent
pump station, bar screens, a 40,000 gallon Im hoff tank, six percolation and evaporation
(P/E) ponds, and a 10 acre land application area.
8. The existing WWTF treats wastewater from the community of Byron with 381 equivalent
dwelling units (EDUs) equating to 68,600 gpd assuming 180 gpd per EDU. Connections include 219 residences, a 540-student elementary school, the Contra Costa County Boy’s
Ranch, and commercial facilities. The single largest commercial facility is Marin Food Specialties, Inc., a small health food packagi ng plant with bakery that discharges process
and wash water. For pretreatment, Marin Food Specialties has a grease trap that they are
required to clean every 6 weeks.
9. The RWD reports the 2007 annual average flow as approximately 60,800 gpd with a
maximum monthly average flow of 65,700 gpd and a minimum of 54,600 gpd. Flow data
for 2007 was assumed to be more accurate than historic flow data due to a previously failed check valve. The faulty valve allow ed the backflow of wastewater and resulted in
double counting of influent flow. The valve was replaced in August 2007.
10. The RWD water balance assumes an inflow and in filtration (I/I) of 4,800 gpd during the wet
winter months November through March. The I/I value is based on five percent of the proposed 96,000 gpd design flow. The assumed I/I value is considered to be an adequate estimate based on the 2007 annual flow data and average monthly precipitation, which
shows most I/I occurring during the dry summe r months. The summer I/I is thought to
result from irrigation practices from adjacent agriculture. The Discharger has plans to
rehabilitate the wastewater co llection piping impacted by the irrigation as described in
Finding 40.
11. The WWTF’s pond system is composed of six P/E ponds that also treat and store the
wastewater. The planned treat ment operation of the ponds is discussed in Finding 34 and
35. The primary disposal mechanism of wa stewater occurs primarily through the ponds
from evaporation and percolation. The RWD assu mes a conservative infiltration rate of
0.03 feet per day based on published infiltration rates (0.12 to 0.40 ft/d) for Marcuse Clay,
described by the National Resource Conserva tion Service Soil Survey, that underlie the
facility. The percolation for Ponds 1 and 2 were further reduced to 0.015 ft/d to account for
solids accumulation. The physical characte ristics of the four treatment ponds and two
storage ponds are summarized below:

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 3
Pond
Name Area
(acres) Max depth1
(feet) Max Volume
(ac-ft) Function
Pond 1 0.41 3.0 1.24 Treatment/disposal
Pond 2 0.44 3.0 1.33 Treatment/disposal
Pond 3 0.96 3.0 2.89 Treatment/disposal Pond 4 0.88 3.0 2.64 Treatment/disposal Pond 5 1.07 5.0 5.35 Storage/disposal Pond 6 1.47 5.0 7.35 Storage/disposal
 1 Water depth at capacity minus two feet of freeboard
12. The WWTF does not currently use aerators or other active treatment systems. Reduction of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) is achieved through atmospheric oxygen diffusion during ex tended retention in the WWTF ponds. The
wastewater is not disinfected.
13. Since wastewater will not be disinfected all precipitation commingled with wastewater is
retained on site. Precipitation may commi ngle with wastewater at the headworks, P/E
ponds, and the land application area. The land application area slopes west to east and
contains a berm on the eastern edge to retain applied wastewater and storm water runoff.
Site Description and Land Application
14. The Discharger previously bought the 20-acre agricultural parcel south of the existing
disposal facility, as shown in Attachment B, to provide additional effluent disposal area. A
botanical survey and wetland assessment of t he 20-acre parcel was prepared for the
Discharger on 11 January 1999. The study f ound that approximately 5.1 acres of the
parcel are occupied by wetlands. Additionally, a rare plant species (San Joaquin saltbush)
is established on a 3.2-acre area in the west ern portion of the parcel. The Discharger’s
consultant used indicators prescribed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for delineating
wetlands.

15. On 10 March 1999, the Discharger certified a Mitigated Negative Declaration for use of the
20-acre parcel for effluent disposal. Mitigation consisted of wetlands avoidance and relocation of the San Joaquin saltbush to a 1.95-ac re mitigation site in the southwest corner
of the parcel to offset the lo ss of approximately one acre of it s habitat during construction of
the proposed disposal area expansion. Cons equently, the Discharger only uses the 10
acres of the parcel for a land application area and effluent disposal.
16. The 10 acre land application area slopes gently from east to west. To protect the wetlands
water quality and the rare species habitat area, an earthen dike has been constructed on the eastern edge to contain effluent within the 10-acre portion of the parcel that is for
effluent disposal.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 4
17. The RWD states that wastew ater from the P/E ponds is di rected to the land application
area when the ponds are at capacity, a pond is closed for maintenance, or to maintain
vegetative growth.
18. The RWD assumes a conservative infiltra tion rate of 0.03 feet per day based on published
infiltration rates (0.12 to 0.40 ft/d) for Ma rcuse Clay. The percolation for the land
application area was further reduced in the water balance to 0.015 ft/d as an additional factor of safety.
Chemical Characteristics of Supply, Influent and Effluent Waters
19. The community of Byron does not have a public water supply system, so the chemical
character of the municipal water supply is unknown. Residents in the community acquire
supply water through private wells , which are not monitored.
20. On 8 September 2003, the Regional Water Board Executive Officer issued a Revised
Monitoring and Reporting Program that did not r equire influent sampling. According to the
RWD, commercial and industrial wastewater cont ributions to the WWTF are minimal. Data
from a single sampling event on 23 October 2007 are provided below:
Constituent
 Units Value
pH pH Units 7.1
BOD mg/L 390
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 1300
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 170
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L 42 Electrical Conductivity μmhos/cm 2400
Nitrate – N mg/L <0.25 Ammonia –N mg/L 34
 The high TDS and EC values are presumably caused by naturally occurring saline
groundwater used by the community for municipal water supply. These values are less than the background monitoring well values co llected from the WWTF from May 2005 to
November 2007 (presented in Finding 50), which are at a minimum 12,000 mg/L for TDS and 22,000 μmhos/cm for EC.
21. The range of the Imhoff tank effluent qualit y collected once per month from May 2005 to
December 2007 is presented below for consti tuents required by the Revised Monitoring
and Reporting Program. Total suspended solids were also sampled once in December 2006. The RWD also provides the aver aged results of a duplicate sample analysis
sampled in February 2005. This data is summarized below:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 5
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
pH1 pH Units 7.3 7.5 6.9
BOD1 mg/L 157 270 87
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen1 mg/L 42 66 26
Electrical Conductivity1 μmhos/cm 2528 3100 1700
Total Dissolved Solids2 mg/L 1278 1700 950
Total Suspended Solids3 mg/L 1300 -- --
Nitrate – N 4 mg/L < 0.5 -- --
Ammonia – N 4 mg/L 40 -- --
Sodium4 mg/L 367 -- --
Chloride4 mg/L 370 -- --
Calcium4 mg/L 50 -- --
Total Alkalinity – CaCO 34 mg/L 630 -- --
Magnesium4
 mg/L 32 -- --
Boron4 mg/L 4.5 -- --
Iron4 mg/L 0.15 -- --
Lead4 mg/L < 0.001 -- --
Chromium4 mg/L 0.014 -- --
Aluminum4 mg/L < 0.1 -- --
Zinc4 mg/L 0.059 -- --
Manganese4 mg/L 0.105 -- --
Orthophosphate mg/L 5.5 -- -- Fluoride
4 mg/L 0.3 -- --
Bromide4 mg/L 1.0 -- --
1 Imhoff effluent samples collected monthly from May 2005 to December 2007 (32 samples)
2 Imhoff effluent sample data not available for December 2006 (31 samples)
3 Imhoff effluent sampled once in December 2006 (1 sample)
4 Imhoff effluent duplicate sample analys is from February 2005 (2 samples)
Since the Imhoff tank does not provide any TD S or EC reduction, as expected the values
do not change significantly from the influent char acteristics. While the Imhoff tank provided
a predictable reduction in BOD, the reason fo r increase in TSS, which was only sampled
once from the Imhoff tank effluent, is difficu lt to determine and may have been sampled
during a period of high variability. However, the Imhoff tank has a reported history of not
being cleaned and biosolid accumulation causing system bypass, as reported in the CAO
and TSO. The Discharger states that repl acing the Imhoff tank with a new, updated
headworks, as discussed in Finding 29, is expected to improve water quality flowing into
the ponds and minimize variability.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 6
22. The RWD provides effluent data for dis posal to the land application area after pond
treatment. The land application data are t he averaged results of a duplicate sample
analysis sampled in February 2005 and at the same time as the Imhoff tank effluent as
described in Finding 21. The table below provides the land application data and the
percent change as compared to the Imhoff tank effluent data. Most values either
decreased or remained the same.
 Constituent Units Value % Change1
Nitrate - N mg/L <0.05 0%
Ammonia - N mg/L 40 0%
Sodium mg/L 420 14% Chloride mg/L 370 0% Calcium mg/L 77 54% Total Alkalinity – CaCO
3 mg/L 580 -8%
Magnesium mg/L 36 13% Boron mg/L 4.6 2%
Iron mg/L 0.12 -20%
Lead mg/L <0.001 0%
Chromium mg/L 0.01 -29%
Aluminum mg/L <0.1 0%
Zinc mg/L 0.012 -80%
Manganese mg/L 0.127 21%
Orthophosphate mg/L 4.5 -18%
Fluoride mg/L 0.2 -33%
Bromide mg/L 1.0 0%
1 Difference in Imhoff tank effluent and wastewater applied to land application area divided by Imhoff tank
effluent
Previous Enforcement
23. In November 2002, the Regional Water Board adopted CAO No. R5-2002-0733, which
states that the “Discharger’s facility needs si gnificant improvements to prevent pond berm
failure, prevent seepage into the adjacent we tlands, and improve effluent quality.” The
CAO requires the discharger to construct a wast ewater treatment fac ility that complies with
WDR Order No. 5-00-0058 by 30 October 2004 and submit supporting progress reports
during development.
24. In January 2005, the Regional Water Boar d adopted TSO No. R5-2005-0900 because the
Discharger was not complying with the CDO or WDRs Order No. 5-00-058. The TSO
states that the WWTF has degraded groundwater with respect to nitrogenous compounds
and coliform bacteria. The TSO specifies a contingent timeline for submitting progress
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 7
reports and constructing a wastewater treatm ent facility capable of ensuring long-term
compliance with WDRs Order No. 5-00-058.
Planned Changes in Discharge
25. The Discharger submitted a RWD in Marc h 2008 and supplemental information in August
2008 for updating the existing WWTF to comply with the CDO and TSO.
26. After improvements, the WWTF will be designed to treat an average of 96,000 gpd. Future
connections are estimated to include an addi tional 84 equivalent dwelling units (EDUs)
totaling 465 EDUs equating to an ADWF of 83,700 gpd, assuming 180 gpd per EDU.
27. Anticipated future growth includes infill proj ects, the annexation of a small section of Byer
road, school expansion, and business redevelopment.
28. The improvements do not account for other long-term future developments of a proposed
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) station or a planned commercia l development at the Contra
Costa County Eastern Airport. The RWD states that, accept ing wastewater from these
developments would likely require further fa cility improvements and a permit revision.
29. The existing Imhoff tank and pump stat ion will be replaced with a new headworks, pump
station and magnetic flowmeter. The headworks will consist of a channel-mounted rotating
screen. The rotating screen is designed to remove solids greater than 0.25 inches. The screened solids will be removed by a shaftless screw conveyor. Screens will be washed using a non-potable well planned for installati on. The screened solids are bagged, stored
in a dumpster, and hauled off site to a permitted disposal facility.
30. The pump station will consist of a five foot diameter wet well and two submersible pumps –
one active and one standby. Each pump will have a capacity of 331,200 gpd providing capability to handle the 96,000 gpd design flow, fi ve percent I/I, and a 3.3 peaking factor.
The wet well will be equipped with a low and high level alarm system. The alarm system will alert operators of a failure with an auto-dialer and warning lights on the control panel.
The RWD states that WWTF is visited each day by an operator. The wet well has the
capability to accept power from a portable generat or in case of power failure. The wet well
can also be retrofitted with a dedi cated generator if required.
31. In case of a power outage and pump failure, a sewer overflow pipeline will convey raw
wastewater by gravity to Ponds 5 and 6 for emergency storage and to prevent a
wastewater spill. The auto- dialer will notify the operator on call who will power the pumps
with a portable generator as soon as possible. Additionally, any wastewater bypassed to
Ponds 5 or 6 will be pumped to Pond 1 with a portable pump.
32. Flow volumes will be monitored using a magnetic flow meter installed after the wet well and
prior to the P/E ponds.
33. The RWD describes planned pond rehabilitation t hat includes: (1) removal of sludge from
Ponds 1 through 4, (2) replacing valve and over flow structures, (3) repairing of the berm
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 8
between Ponds 3 and 4, (4) repairing and reshaping of pond berms as needed, (5) placing
broken concrete on portions of pond berms to prevent erosion, and (6) replacing transfer piping to allow greater flexibility in pond operation as described below.
34. Ponds 1 through 4 will be fitted with new flow transfer piping that will allow the pond system
to be operated in series or parallel. The WW TF is anticipated to be primarily operated in
the series configuration with wastewater fr om the headworks flowing into Pond 1 and then
into Pond 3, 4 and 2, consecutively. Wastewat er from Pond 3 will be able to flow to either
Pond 5 or Pond 6 as needed for additional storage c apacity. Additionally, wastewater from
Pond 2 will be pumped to the land application ar ea as needed. A wastewater diagram for
the series configuration is shown on Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part
of this Order by reference.
35. The flow between ponds will switch to the para llel configuration during a time of high BOD
load and low temperatures such that Pond 1 would not be able to meet the dissolved
oxygen requirement of 1 mg/L. In paralle l mode, the BOD load would be split between
Pond 1 and 2 to obtain a greater surface area fo r oxygen transfer. Wastewater from Pond
1 will flow to Pond 3 and wastewater from Pond 2 will flow to Pond 4. Wastewater from
either Pond 3 or Pond 4 will be able to flow to either Pond 5 or Pond 6 as necessary for storage and disposal. Wastewater from Pond 2 will not be discharged to the land
application area for a period of 30 days after converting from parallel to series configuration.
Existing Wastewater Collection Sy stem and Planned Improvements
36. The collection system consists of about 12, 000 feet of 6-, 8-, and10-inch sewer mains with
about 10,500 feet owned by Byron Sanitary Distr ict. The collection system is primarily
constructed of vitrified clay pipe (approximately 76%) with t he remaining being a mixture of
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and steel pipe. T he 2007 flow data do not show a significant
amount of I/I during the rainy winter months. However, the discharger states that the
greatest I/I occurs during August as a result of irrigation from an alfalfa field immediately
west of the facility.
37. The sanitary sewer system collects wastew ater and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system el ements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment fac ility. Temporary storage
and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells , regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines,
etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not
considered sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within these
temporary storage/conveyance facilities. Sanitary sewer overflow is also defined in State
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ,
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requi rements for Sanitary Sewer Systems . The
Internet web location for State Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ is: http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/res dec/wqorders/2006/wqo/wqo2006_0003.pdf .
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 9
38. Sanitary sewer overflows consist of varying mixtures of domestic and commercial
wastewater, depending on land uses in the sew age collection system. The chief causes of
sanitary sewer overflows include grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages, sewer line flood damage, manhole structure failu res, vandalism, pump station mechanical
failures, power outages, storm or groundwater in flow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or
contractor caused blockages.
39. Sanitary sewer overflows often contai n high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic
organisms, toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and
grease, and other pollutants. Sanitary sewer overflows can cause temporary exceedance of
applicable water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic
life, and impair the public recreational use and aest hetic enjoyment of surface waters in the
area.
40. The Discharger shall take all necessary st eps to adequately maintain, operate, and prevent
discharges from its sanitary sewer collection system. The RWD states that the Discharger
will improve the wastewater co llection system by removing accumulated sand and gravel,
install intermediate manholes in pipe runs exceeding 400 feet, and bring buried manholes
to grade. The Discharger has plans to repair the main line along Camino Diablo Road, which is expected to significantly decrease I/I associated with the adjacent alfalfa field
irrigation.
41. The Discharger has submitted a Notice of Intent to apply for coverage under State Water
Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ. The discharger has completed the Development Plan
and Schedule and Sanitary S ewer Management Plan (SSMP) Sections I, II, III and VI . This
Order requires the Discharger to complete and implement the SSMP c onsistent with State
Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ and to co mply with that Order and its General
WDRs Monitoring and Reporting Program (W ater Quality Order No. 2008-0002-EXEC).
Site-Specific Conditions
42. The WWTF site is at an elevation approxim ately at 10 feet mean sea level (MSL), and the
area is relatively flat with drainage west to east. Surface water drainage is to Sacramento
San Joaquin Delta collected through agricultural drains and Fisk Creek.
43. Annual precipitation in the vicinity av erages approximately 13.35 inches. The 100-year
total annual precipitation is approximately 22. 2 inches. The mean evapotranspiration rate
is approximately 55.21 inches per year.
44. The P/E ponds and the land disposal area are within the 100-year flood plain. However,
the ponds and land disposal area are protected fr om inundation by their perimeter levee.
45. Based on the Natural National Resource Conservation Service soil survey, the soils
underlying the WWTF consist of Marcuse Clay.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 10
46. Published infiltration rates for the soils range from 0.06 to 0.20 in/hr (0.12 to 0.40 feet per
day).
47. The WWTF is adjacent to an agriculture field, a seasonal wetlands, and Fisk Creek, which
is also seasonal. Fisk Creek provides irri gation drainage and flows north into Discovery
Bay and eventually into the Sacramento San Joaqui n Delta. Fisk Creek has historically had
beaver dams that cause inundation of both t he wetlands adjacent to the land application
area and the stormwater drainage ditch along Ca mino Diablo Road during the wet season.
During a site visit, the discharger stated that the beaver dam had been removed.
Additionally, in 2008, the discharger fix ed a culvert along Camino Diablo Road and Fisk
Creek that was prone to blockage that also caused inundation of the wetlands and
stormwater drainage ditch. The removal of the beaver dam and fixing the culvert are
expected to minimize further inundation.
Groundwater Considerations
48. The RWD states that, the typical depth to groundwater underlying the WWTF is five feet
below ground surface. Groundwater levels ar e usually one foot or more below the P/E
pond bottoms but groundwater monitoring data i ndicate that groundwater can be higher
than the pond bottoms. However, during periods of high groundwater, a water level rise
was not observed in the ponds. The RWD states that: “Groundwater is found in a sandy
aquifer beneath a clay layer that extends from t he surface to 20 to 35 feet bgs. Because of
the clay layer, the aquifer is confined or se mi-confined. Therefore, groundwater levels
measured in the monitoring wells are an indica tion of the potentiometric surface of the
groundwater in the deeper sand aquifer, not an indication of the actual position of
groundwater in the clay layer.” The wate r balance accounts for this reduction in
permeability by reducing the published soil percolation rate as described in Finding 11.
49. Groundwater flow direction for the area tr ends from the west to the east northeast..
50. The range of groundwater qua lity data observed from moni toring during eleven quarterly
events conducted from May 2005 to November 2007 is presented below.
Range of Analytical Results1
Constituent
MW-1 MW-2 MW-3 MW-4 MW-5 MW-62 MW-73
Total coliform
organisms <2 - 1600 <2 - 1600 <2 - 1600 <2 <2 - 500 <2 - 7 <2
Electrical
Conductivity 5700 -
7100 2600 -
4400 2300 -
6400 3400 -
4800 3700 -
6800 23000 -
28000 22000 -
25000
Total dissolved
solids 3400 -
4000 1500 -
2400 1400 -
3900 2200 -
3000 2400 -
4000 13000 -
17000 12000 -
15000
Nitrate - N <0.1 - 3.9 <0.1 <0.1 - 5.7 1.9 - 8.1 <0.1 0.4 - 1.2 0.4 - 0.8
Ammonia – N <0.1 <0.1 - 2.7 <0.1 - 0.2 <0.1 - 0.2 <0.1 - 0.5 <0.1 <0.1 - 0.3
1 mg/L except for total coliform organism (MPN/100 mL) and electrical conductivity ( μmhos/cm)
2 Side gradient background well
3 Upgradient background well
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 11
The region is known to have naturally occu rring high saline groundwater as indicated by
the high values of electrical conductivity (EC) and total dissolved solids (TDS) in background wells MW-6 and MW-7. While wells monitoring the WWTF’s impact to groundwater indicate concentrations for EC and TDS that exceed Basin Plan limits, these
concentrations are actually a near or der of magnitude less than background
concentrations.
The CAO and TSO state that the WWTF’s oper ations have impacted the groundwater in
terms of total coliform organisms (TCO), nitr ate, and ammonia. However, the Discharger
states that impacted wells ar e impaired and/or inappropriately located. Specifically, the
construction logs for monitoring wells MW-1, -2, and -3 can not be located and do not have adequate surface seals resulting in surface wate r intrusion, which has impacted monitoring
results for coliform. The Discharger also st ates that MW-4 is not appropriately placed
within the WWTF’s controllable property boundary. Additionally, the Discharger claims that
nitrate and ammonia levels in MW-3 and MW-4, which are adjacent to Fisk Creek, may have been influenced by irrigation drainage and dredging activity in Fisk Creek. While the Discharger has not provided surface monitori ng data to support the potential influence of
Fisk Creek on MW-3 and MW-4, the locality and monitoring data in MW-5 support this potential influence and show that upgradient wastewater ponds are not detrimentally
affecting groundwater in terms of nitr ate and ammonia. Additionally, coliform
concentrations in MW-5 have not exceeded 2 MPN/mL since the maximum concentration
of 500 MPN/mL occurred in May 2006 and only exceeded 2 MPN one other time in May 2005 at 13 MPN/mL. These concentrations potentially may have occurred due to sampling contamination. Therefore, MW-5 is considered to be the only monitoring well
indicative of downgradient groundwater quality.
The RWD and supplemental MW-4 Replacement Workplan state that monitoring wells
MW-1, -2, -3 and -4 will be abandoned and replacement monitoring wells will be constructed. The RWD provides a rationale de scribing the relocation of the new monitoring
wells to positions less likely to be impacted by surface water intrusion and that will better
monitor groundwater conditions underlying the facility. The MW-4 Replacement Workplan
proposes a location within the fenced perimeter of Ponds 5 and 6 capable of monitoring
downgradient groundwater conditions.
51. The historical groundwater data and subst antial changes in the monitoring well network
make it appropriate for this Order to require the Discharger to submit a Monitoring Well
Disinfection Workplan in event of continued coliform viol ations and to provide a statistical
evaluation of groundwater quality in the form of a Groundwater and Pond Evaluation
Report .
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Water Quality Objectives
52. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacr amento River and San Joaquin River Basins,
Fourth Edition (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality
objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 12
and incorporates by reference plans and po licies adopted by the State Board. These
requirements implement the Basin Plan.
53. Surface water drainage from the site is to agricultural ditches and Fisk Creek, which flow
into the Sacramento San Joaquin Delta. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of
the Sacramento San Joaquin Delta as munici pal and domestic supply (MUN); agricultural
supply (AGR); industry process (PROC); industry service supply (IND); water contact recreation (REC-1); noncontact water recreat ion (REC-2); warm freshwater habitat
(WARM); cold freshwater habitat (COLD) ; warm and cold water migration (MIGR);
spawning, reproduction and/or early development of warm freshwater aquatic organisms
(SPWN); wildlife habitat (WILD); and navigation (NAV).
54. The Basin Plan designates the beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as municipal and
domestic supply (MUN), agricultural supply (A GR), industrial service supply (IND), and
industrial process supply (PRO). The shallow groundwater contains salts in concentrations
exceeding the State Water Resources Control Board Sources of Drinking Water Policy
criteria for source of drinking water, how ever without an amendment to the Water Quality
Control Plan and an exemption fr om the State Water Board, the shallow groundwater must
be protected as a municipal and domestic drinking water supply.
55. The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents,
tastes and odors, and toxicity in groundwater. It al so sets forth a numeric objective for total
coliform organisms.
56. The Basin Plan’s narrative water quality objecti ve for chemical constituents, at a minimum,
requires waters designated as domestic or munici pal supply to meet the MCLs specified in
Title 22. The Basin Plan recognizes that t he Regional Water Board may apply limits more
stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in
concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses.
57. In summary, the narrative toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of
toxic substances in concentrations that pr oduce detrimental physiological responses in
human, plant, animal, or aquatic life a ssociated with designated beneficial uses.
Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site-specific evaluation of those
constituents that have the potential to impact water quality and beneficial uses.
58. The Basin Plan’s numeric water quality objec tive for bacteria requires that the most
probable number (MPN) of coliform organisms over any seven-day period shall be less
than 2.2 per 100 mL in MUN groundwater. The applicability of this objective to
groundwater designated as MUN has been a ffirmed by State Water Board Order
No. WQO-2003-0014 and by subsequent decisions of the Sacramento County Superior
Court and California Court of Appeal, 3rd Appellate District.
59. The applicable groundwater limitation for nitr ate as nitrogen is the background groundwater
quality. The background groundwater quality fo r nitrate as nitrogen ranged from 0.4 to
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 13
1.2 mg/L from May 2005 to November 2007, wh ich is less than the California primary MCL
of 10 mg/L.
60. The applicable groundwater limitation fo r ammonia as nitrogen is the background
groundwater quality. The background groundwat er quality for ammonia as nitrogen ranged
from less than 0.1 to 0.3 mg/L from May 2005 to November 2007, which is less than the
applied narrative Taste and Odor objective of 1.5 mg/L.
Antidegradation Analysis
61. State Water Resources Control Board Re solution No. 68-16 (“Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters of the St ate”) (hereafter Resolution 68-16) prohibits
degradation of groundwater unless it has been shown that:
a. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State;
b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect pr esent and anticipated future beneficial
uses;
c. The degradation does not result in water qua lity less than that prescribed in state and
regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives; and
d. The discharger employs best practicable tr eatment or control (BPTC) to minimize
degradation.
62. Degradation of groundwater by some of t he typical waste constituents released with
discharge from a municipal wastew ater utility after effective s ource control, treatment, and
control is consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State. The technology,
energy, and waste management advantages of m unicipal utility service far exceed any
benefits derived from a community otherwise re liant on numerous concentrated individual
wastewater systems, and the impact on water qua lity will be substantially less. Economic
prosperity of valley communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people
of the State, and therefore sufficient reason to accommodate growth and groundwater
degradation provided terms of the Basin Plan are met.
63. Constituents of concern that have the pot ential to degrade groundwater include nutrients and
coliform organisms, as discussed below:
a. For nutrients such as nitrate, the potential for unreasonable degradation depends not
only on the quality of the treated effluent, but the ability of the vadose zone below the
effluent storage/disposal ponds to provide an environment conducive to nitrification
and denitrification to convert the effluent ni trogen to nitrate and the nitrate to nitrogen
gas before it reaches the water table. Wh ile the groundwater monitoring data indicate
that groundwater has been impacted in respec t to nitrate and ammonia resulting from
wastewater application to unlined wastewater ponds and to the land disposal area, the
Discharger claims that data are not repres entative of WWTF activity. Subsequently,
the Discharger proposes to reconstruct and relocate impaired monitoring wells to acquire more representative data as i ndicated in MW-5. Therefore, pending
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 14
completion of the Groundwater and Pond Evaluation Report , there is no reason to
require denitrification at this time.
b. For coliform organisms, the potential for ex ceedance of the Basin Plan’s numeric water
quality objective depends on the ability of vadose zone soils below the effluent
storage/disposal ponds and saturated soils wit hin the shallow water bearing zone to
provide adequate filtration. Again, the Disc harger claims that impacted monitoring
wells (MW-1, -2 and -3) suffered from inadequate construction and impaired surface seals that caused surface water intrusi on that caused the detection of naturally
occurring surface coliform organisms. The fa ct that total and fecal coliform organisms
have been less than 2 MPN/mL in MW-4 and have not been detected in MW-5 since August 2006 indicates that there may be adequate filtration at the wastewater
treatment plant site. Although disinfection w ould reduce the potential threat, the use of
sodium hypochlorite would also increase the salinity of the effluent and create
trihalomethanes. Therefore, pending completion of the Groundwater and Pond
Evaluation Report , there is no reason to require disinfection at this time.
64. For EC, the background groundwater monito ring data exceeds all applicable Basin Plan
limits. The minimum background EC concentration found between May 2005 and November 2007 was 22,000 μmhos/cm. In comparison, for t he same time period, the maximum
downgradient groundwater EC concentration in MW-5 was 6,800 μmhos/cm. Additionally,
between May 2005 and December 2007 the maximum effluent EC concentration was 3,100 μmhos/cm. Therefore, the discharge will most likely not impair the beneficial uses of
groundwater due to increased salinity. Based on best professional judgment, as long as the
Discharger continues to implement BPTC an EC limit and a salinity reduction program are
not required for this discharge.
65. The Discharger submitted an Antidegradation Plan in March 2008 and a supplemental MW-4
Replacement Workplan in November 2008. The overall pl an outlines the rehabilitation of the
current groundwater monitoring well network to establish baseline criteria for groundwater
elevation, gradient, and water quality. The plan includes replacing four monitoring wells and
retrofitting the well heads of the three other monitoring wells to prevent the potential intrusion
of surface water. The plan also proposes to include the monitoring of fixed dissolved solids,
total Kjeldahl nitrogen, boron, chlorides, iron, manganese, and sodium on a quarterly basis
and sample standard minerals and metals on an annual basis. This Order requires the timely submittal of the Groundwater and Pond Evaluation Report and subsequent BPTC evaluation
and implementation. Completion of these tasks, and implementation of any necessary
approved strategies developed from that work, will confirm that BPTC and the highest water
quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State have already been
achieved, or if not, will ensure that they ar e achieved. Accordingly, the discharge is
consistent with the antidegradati on provisions of Resolution 68-16. Based on the results of
the scheduled tasks, the Board may reopen this Or der to reconsider groundwater limitations
and other requirements to comply with Resolution 68-16.

WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 15
Treatment and Control Practices
66. After improvements, the Di scharger will provide treatment and control of the discharge that
incorporates:
a. Alarms and operational procedures to mi nimize and prevent bypass or overflow;
b. A flexible flow design between ponds to accommodate potentially high BOD loads
without losing treatment capability;
c. Appropriate biosolids st orage and disposal practices;
d. An Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manual; and e. The use of certified operators to assure proper operation and maintenance.
67. As noted above, it is not clear whether the WWTF has impact ed underlying groundwater
quality and the level of degradation that comp lies with Resolution No. 68-16 has not been
fully evaluated. Even if some historic degr adation has occurred, the facility improvements
described in Finding No. 3 were designed to elimi nate any future degradation. Therefore, it
is appropriate for this Order to establish a schedule of tasks to formally evaluate groundwater quality and evaluate additional BPTC measures if unreasonable groundwater
degradation will occur. Completion of these tasks, and implementation of the approved
strategies developed from that work, will ens ure that BPTC and the highest water quality
consistent with the maximum benefit to t he people of the State will be achieved, or will
confirm that the facility already m eets these standards with the new upgrades.
68. This Order establishes gr oundwater limitations that will not unreasonably threaten present
and anticipated beneficial uses or result in groundwater quality that exceeds water quality
objectives set forth in the Basin Plan.
Other Regulatory Considerations
69. The State Water Board adopted Order No. 97-03-DWQ (NPDES General Permit No.
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge require ments for discharges of storm water
associated with industrial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all
affected industrial dischargers. The wastewat er treatment plant facilities are designed to
contain all storm water runoff that might have contacted the wast e regulated under this
Order. Because there is no storm water dischar ge from the industrial portion of the facility,
the Discharger is not required to obtai n coverage under NPDES General Permit No.
CAS000001.
70. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements For Sanitary Sewer System s General Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ (General
Order). The General Order requires all public agencies that own or operate sanitary sewer
systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the Order. The Discharger’s
collection system exceeds one mile in length, therefore the General Order is applicable.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 16
The Discharger has filed a Notice of Intent (NOI) for coverage under the General Order
with the State Water Resources Control Board.
71. Section 13267(b) of t he CWC provides that: “In conducting an investigation specified in
subdivision (a), the regional board may requi re that any person who has discharged,
discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge within its region,
or any citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged,
discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste outside of
its region that could affect t he quality of the waters of the state within its region shall
furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the board
requires. The burden, including costs of these reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship
to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring
those reports, the regional board shall provi de the person with a wr itten explanation with
regard to the need for the reports, and shall i dentify the evidence that supports requiring
that person to provide the reports.”
The technical reports required by this Order and the attached “Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. R5-2009-0002” are necessary to assure compliance with these waste
discharge requirements. The Discharger owns and operates the facility that discharges the
waste subject to this Order.
72. The California Department of Water Resour ces sets standards for the construction and
destruction of groundwater wells (hereafte r DWR Well Standards), as described in
California Well Standards Bulletin 74-90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards: State of
California Bulletin 94-81 (December 1981). These standards, and any more stringent
standards adopted by the State or county pursuant to CWC Section 13801, apply to all
monitoring wells.
73. The action to adopt waste discharge requirement s for this existing facility is exempt from
the provisions of the California Environm ental Quality (CEQA), in accordance with
Title 14 CCR, Section 15301. This Order involv es negligible or no expansion of use of the
facility, which has been upgraded to decreas e its potential water quality impacts.
74. The United States Envir onmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids
reuse regulations in 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge,
which establishes management criteria for pr otection of ground and surface waters, sets
application rates for heavy metals, and establis hes stabilization and disinfection criteria.
75. The Regional Water Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines in
establishing this Order, but the Regional Wa ter Board is not the implementing agency for
40 CFR 503 regulations. The Discharger may have separate and/or additional compliance,
reporting, and permitting responsibilities to the EPA. All biosolids will be hauled to a separate permitted facility.
76. State regulations that pre scribe procedures for detecting and characterizing the impact of
waste constituents from wa ste management units on groundwat er are found in Title 27
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 17
CCR Section 20380. While the WWTF is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods
of Title 27 may be appropriate for determini ng whether the discharge complies with the
terms for protection of groundwater specified in this Order.
77. The discharge authorized herein and the treat ment and storage facilities associated with
the discharge, except for discharges of resi dual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from
the requirements of Title 27, CCR, Section 20380 et seq. The exemption, pursuant to Title
27 CCR Section 20090(a), is based on the following:
a. The waste consists primarily of domestic sewage and treated effluent;
b. The waste discharge requirements are c onsistent with water quality objectives; and
c. The treatment and storage facilities descr ibed herein are associated with a municipal
wastewater treatment facility.
78. Pursuant to CWC Section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and adoption of
this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice
79. All the above and the supplemental informati on and details in the attached Information
Sheet, which is incorporated by reference her ein, as well as the Regional Water Board’s
administrative record, were considered in est ablishing the following conditions of discharge.
80. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the Regional
Water Board’s intent to prescribe waste disc harge requirements for this discharge, and they
have been provided an opportunity to submit written comments and an opportunity for a
public hearing.
81. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public hearing.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, pursuant to Sections 13263 and 13267 of the California Water
Code, Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 5-00-058, Cleanup and Abatement Order No.
R5-2002-0733 and Time Schedule Order No. R5- 2005-0900 are rescinded and Byron Sanitary
District, its agents, successors, and assigns, in or der to meet the provisions contained in
Division 7 of the California Water Code and r egulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with
the following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions , and some methods of determining compliance
are contained in the attached "Standard Prov isions and Reporting Requirements for Waste
Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]
A. Discharge Prohibitions
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 18
1. Discharge of wastewater at a location or in a manner different from that described in the
findings is prohibited.
2. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
3. Discharge of waste classified as “hazar dous” under Section 2521, Chapter 15 of Title 23
or 'designated', as defined in Section 13173 of the California Water Code is prohibited.
4. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
5. Discharge of sewage from a sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of a
wastewater treatment plant is prohibited. Discharge of wa stewater downstream of the
wastewater treatment plant, other than at the designated P/ E ponds or land application
area, is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications
1. Effective immediately , the average daily dry weather flow shall not exceed 96,000 gpd
between the months April through October, and the average daily flow shall not exceed
100,800 between the months Nove mber through March, inclusive. The total annual
influent flow shall not exceed 35.8 million gallons.
2. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released
or discharged, in a concentration or in a ma ss that causes violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.
3. Wastewater treatment, stor age, and disposal shall not cause pollution or a nuisance as
defined by Section 13050 of the California Water Code (CWC).
4. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to optimize the quality of the
treated effluent.
5. Public contact with wastewater shall be pr ecluded or controlled through such means as
fences, signs, or acceptable alternatives.
6. Objectionable odors originating at the facilit y shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of
the wastewater treatment, stor age or P/E ponds at an intensit y that creates or threatens
to create nuisance conditions.
7. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification B.6, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper one foot of any wastewater pond shall not be less than 1.0
mg/L for three consecutive weekly sampling events. If the DO in any single pond is below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive samp ling events, the Discharger shall report the
findings to the Regional Water Board in writing within 10 days and shall include a specific plan to resolve the low DO results within 30 days.
8. All P/E ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 19
a. An erosion control program shall be im plemented to ensure that small coves and
irregularities are not cr eated around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
9. All treatment and storage facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or was hout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
10. The WWTF shall have sufficient treatm ent, storage, and disposal capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary
inflow and infiltration during the winter months . Design seasonal precipitation shall be
based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly
in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
11. The Discharger shall operate and maintain all ponds sufficiently to protect the integrity of
containment levees and prevent overtopping and/ or structural failure. Unless a California-
registered civil engineer certifies (based on design, construction, and conditions of
operation and maintenance) that less freeboar d is adequate, the operating freeboard in
any pond shall never be less than two feet (meas ured vertically from the lowest possible
point of overflow). As a means of m anagement and to discern compliance with this
Provision, the Discharger shall install and maintain in each pond permanent staff gauges
with calibration marks that indicate t he water level at design capacity and enable
determination of avail able operational freeboard.
12. On or about 15 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply wit h Discharge Specifications B.10 and B.11.
13. No stored wastewater shall have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 10.0.
C. Land Discharge Specifications
1. Land discharge of effluent shall comply with the following setback requirements:
Setback Definition1 Minimum
Irrigation Setback
(feet)
Edge of land application area to property boundary 50
Edge of land application area to a public road 50
Edge of land application area to an irrigation well 100
Edge of land application area to a domestic well 100
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 20
Setback Definition1 Minimum
Irrigation Setback
(feet)
Edge of land application area to a manmade or natural surface water drainage course
2 or spring 50
 1 As defined by the wetted ar ea produced during irrigation.
 2 Excluding ditches used exclusively for tailwater return.

2. Land discharge runoff (i.e., discharge tailwater and stormwater) shall be completely
contained within the designated land applicati on area and shall not enter any surface
water drainage course.
3. Land discharge of effluent shall not be appli ed at a BOD loading rate greater than 100
pounds BOD per acre per day or at a mass loading rate that would create a nuisance
condition or degrade groundwater quality.
4. Land discharge of effluent shall not be perform ed within 24 hours of a forecasted storm,
during a storm, within 24 hours after any meas urable precipitation event, or when the
ground is saturated.
5. The land disposal area shall be managed to maintain uniform infiltration and best
practicable disposal efficiency.
6. The land discharge areas shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In
particular:
a. There shall be no standing water 48 hours after irrigation ceases; b. Tailwater ditches must be maintained e ssentially free of emergent, marginal, and
floating vegetation, and;
c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to mosquitoes
shall not be used to store effluent.
D. General Solids Disposal Specifications
1. Sludge means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues removed during primary,
secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and
screenings generated during prelim inary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that
will not be subject to further treatment at the fa cility. Biosolids refers to sludge that has
undergone sufficient treatment and testing to qualify for reuse pursuant to federal and
state regulations as a soil am endment for agriculture, silviculture, horticulture, and land
recycling.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

 21
2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, and ponds as needed to
ensure optimal plant operation.
3. Treatment and storage of sl udge shall be confined to the tr eatment facility property, and
shall be conducted in a manner that precludes in filtration of waste constituents into soils
in a mass or at concentrations that will violat e the Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
4. Any storage of residual sludge, solid wast e, and biosolids at the facility shall be
temporary, and the waste shall be controll ed and contained in a manner that minimizes
leachate formation and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
at concentrations that will violate the Groundwater Limitations of this Order.
5. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid wast e shall be disposed of in a manner approved
by the Executive Officer and consistent wit h Title 27 CCR Division 2. Removal for
further treatment, disposal, or reuse at dis posal sites operated in accordance with valid
waste discharge requirements issued by a regional water quality control board will
satisfy this specification.
6. Use and disposal of biosolids shall co mply with the self-implementing Federal
regulations of 40 CFR 503, which are subject to enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the
Regional Water Board. If during the life of this Order, the state accepts primacy for
implementation of 40 CFR 503, the Regional Wa ter Board may also initiate enforcement
where appropriate.
E.