wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of pers ons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations;
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0153 -5-
STOCO MUTUAL WATER AND SEWER COMPANY WWTF KERN COUNTY

 3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, includi ng identification of who performed the
calibrations (Standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the curr ent operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as curr ently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conduc ted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
6. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids; b. A schematic diagram showing sludge hand ling facilities and solids flow diagram;
and
c. A description of disposal methods, in cluding the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge producti on disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal , include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifi cations of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the fa cilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs t hat regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
7. A summary and discussion of the complianc e record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.

All technical reports required herein must be ov erseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
 All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3. A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any violations during the reporting period and all acti ons taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If t he Discharger has previously submitted a report
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0153 -6-
STOCO MUTUAL WATER AND SEWER COMPANY WWTF KERN COUNTY

 describing corrective actions and/or a time sc hedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0153 -7-
STOCO MUTUAL WATER AND SEWER COMPANY WWTF KERN COUNTY

 The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer

 26 October 2007
 (Date)

ARP
INFORMATION SHEET
 ORDER NO. R5-2007-0153 STOCO MUTUAL WATER AND SEWER COMPANY WWTF KERN COUNTY



Background
The Stoco Mutual Water and Sewer Company oper ates a wastewater co llection, treatment,
and disposal facility (WWTF) to provide sewerage services to fo r the California Highway Patrol
Office, a gas station, restaurants, and two motels at the junction of Interstate Five and the
Stockdale Highway. The property on which the WWTF (APN No. 160 03 22) resides and
where the discharge occurs is owned by Moham ed Hugais, et. al. The land on which the
wastewater lift station (APN No . 160 030 08) resides is Goraya Mohammad, et. al. Stoco and
the owner of the land on which the WWTF and lift station reside are hereafter jointly referred to
as Discharger. The WWTF has an estimated flow between 0.02 to 0.03 million gallons per day
(mgd). Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 94-387 adopted by the Regional Water Board on 26 July 1974, limits the discharge to 0.05 mgd. The WDRs require the Discharger
maintain a minimum dissolved oxygen (DO) concent ration of 1.0 mg/L in the ponds to prevent
nuisance odor conditions. The WWTF consists of the wastewater colle ction system, influent pum p station, and two
evaporation and percolation ponds (Ponds 1 and 2). Pond 1 is 2.67-acre and Pond 2, which is
rarely used, is 1.33-acre. Ponds 1 and 2 are about 8 ft deep. The Discharger “cross cut” Pond
1 into four separate smaller pon ds (Ponds 1.a. through 1.d.) t hat are about 2 – 3 feet deep.
Wastewater is discharged to each pond as necessary.
 The Discharger is not increasing discharge flow or changing the nature and character of the
discharge, but the WDRs need to be updated to reflect its current WW TF and Regional Water
Board plans and policies.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
The WWTF does not have headworks, but the Discharger intends to install grinder pumps,
which will reduce headworks waste. Sludge, if removed from t he ponds is typically stockpiled
onsite and applied to areas surrounding the WWTF. If not removed, it is disked into the bottom
of the ponds, once dried.
Groundwater Conditions
Regional groundwater is approximately 50 to 100 feet below ground surface and flows
generally north to northeasterly, with a perched gr oundwater table at about 20 feet bgs. In the
discharge vicinity, the “modified E-clay” layer o ccurs about 350 to 400 feet bgs and is about
20 feet thick. Regional groundwat er data from the Water Supply Report indicates that the EC
(converted from TDS) in the unconfined aquifer ranges from 850 to 1200 µmhos/cm. However,
groundwater data within t he area is limited.
 The WWTF and its discharge is approximately tw o miles north of the Kern Water Bank
Authority which recharges groundwater using hi gh quality surface waters . Discharge from the
INFORMATION SHEET - ORDER NO. R5-2007-0153 -2-
STOCO MUTUAL WATER AND SEWER COMPANY WWTF KERN COUNTY


 WWTF is regionally downgradient of the Kern Water Bank Author ity and a minor fraction of the
total volume percolated.

Compliance History
On 11 June 2007, the Discharger was issued a No tice of Violation (N OV) for not submitted
several years of self moni toring reports (SMRs).

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The Basin Plan indicates that the greatest long-term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake
Basin is increasing salinity in groundwater, a pr ocess accelerated by man’s activities and
particularly affected by intens ive irrigated agriculture. The Basin Plan recognizes that
degradation is unavoidable until t here is a long-term solution to the salt imbalance. The
Regional Water Board encourages proactive manage ment of waste streams by dischargers to
control addition of salt through use, and has established an incremental EC limitation of
500 µmhos/cm or a maximum of 1,000 µmhos/c m, as the measure of the maximum
permissible addition of salt constituents through use. Discharges to areas that may recharge good quality groundwaters shall not exceed an EC of
1,000 µmhos/cm, a chloride content of 175 mg/L, or boron content of 1.0 mg/L.

Antidegradation
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Reso lution No. 68-16 (Resolution
No. 68-16), “Statement of Policy With Respec t to Maintaining High Quality Waters in
California,” or “Antidegradation Poli cy” require that waters of the State that are better in quality
than established water quality objectives be mainta ined “consistent with the maximum benefit
to the people of the State.” Waters can be of high quality for some cons tituents or beneficial
uses and not others. Policy and pr ocedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the
basin plan. The discharge is an existing discharge and will not change in character or volume from that
allowed by WDRs Order No. 92- 035. The overall mass of c onstituents, and th erefore, the
potential to impact water quality, remain unchanged.

Title 27
Title 27, CCR, section 20005 et seq. (Title 27) contains regulations to address certain
discharges to land. Title 27 establishes a wa ste classification system, specifies siting and
construction standards for full cont ainment of classified waste, requires extensive monitoring of
groundwater and the unsaturated z one for any indication of failure of containment, and
specifies closure and post-closur e maintenance requirements. Generally, no degradation of
groundwater quality by any waste constituent in a classified waste is acceptable under Title 27
regulations. Discharges of domestic sewage and treated effl uent can be treated and controlled to a degree
that will not result in unreasonab le degradation of groundwater. For this reason, they have
INFORMATION SHEET - ORDER NO. R5-2007-0153 -3-
STOCO MUTUAL WATER AND SEWER COMPANY WWTF KERN COUNTY


 been conditionally exempted from Title 27. Treatm ent and storage facilities for sludge that are
part of the WWTF are considered exempt from Title 27 under se ction 20090(a), provided that
the facilities not result in a violation of any wa ter quality objective. However, residual sludge
(for the purposes of the proposed Order, sludge that will not be s ubjected to further treatment
by the WWTF) is not exempt from Title 27. Solid waste (e.g., grit and screenings) that results
from treatment of domestic sewage and industrial waste also is not exempt from Title 27. This
residual sludge and solid wast e are subject to the provisions of Title 27.
 Accordingly, the municipal di scharge of effluent and the operatio n of treatment or storage
facilities associated with a municipal wastew ater treatment plant can be allowed without
requiring compliance with Title 27, but only if resulting degradation of groundwater is in
accordance with the Basin Plan.
CEQA
The Discharger is not increasing discharge flow or changing the nature and character of the
discharge, therefore the i ssuance of this Order is exempt from the provisions of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000, et, seq.) and the
State CEQA guidelines (Title 14, Division 6, California Code of Regulations, as amended).

Proposed Order Terms and Conditions

Discharge Prohibitions, Efflue nt Limitations, Discharge Sp ecifications, and Provisions
The proposed Order prohibits discharge to su rface waters and water drainage courses.
 The proposed Order would establish an