Existing Facility and Discharge

7. The septic tanks in the subdivision are two chamber fiberglass septic tank. The first chamber is
utilized for solids removal and storage. A overflow baffle connects the first and second chambers
and buffers peak hydraulic loads to the system. The secondary compartment is fitted with an
effluent filter. The filtered effluent flows via gravity from the se ptic tank to the collection system.
Effluent within the collection system system operates via gravity to supply two dosing tanks which
in turn discharge the wastewater to the community leachfields.
8. The two dosing siphons and tanks are identical, but each doses a separate leachfield. The siphons
used are Orenco Systems Model No. 442 and the dosing tanks are 1,500 gallon concrete septic
tanks. The RWD indicates that each leachfield dose is approximately 1,200 gallons. Dosing occurs
four times per day at design flow.
9. The two community leachfields consist of approximately of 4,300 lineal feet of pressure dosed leach
line on a 4.3- acre parcel. The 4,300 feet of leachline is divided in approximately equal amounts
between two separate leachfields. Distribut ion piping within each disposal trench within a
leachfield is fitted with a ball valve for the purpose of equal distribution of wastewater to all the
leachlines despite varying heads due to elevation differences and friction losses. These valves were
adjusted at the time of the initial system testing to provide equal pressure in all disposal trenches,
but may need to be checked and adjusted periodically. The existing leachfield area contains enough
unused space for the replacement of 4,300 feet of leachli ne. T he community leachfields are shown
on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
10. To minimize soil saturation during the wet season, the leachfield has a stormwater diversion ditch
which directs stormwater away fr om the leachfield. The stormwater ditch is part of the WWTF and
needs to be maintained in order to ensure the long term performance of the leachfield. Assessor Parcel No. Assessor Parcel No. Assessor Parcel No. Assessor Parcel No.
38-630-001 38-630-011 38-630-021 38-630-047
38-630-002 38-630-012 38-630-044 38-630-032
38-630-003 38-630-013 38-630-045 38-630-033
38-630-004 38-630-014 38-630-024 38-630-034
38-630-005 38-630-015 38-630-025 38-630-035
38-630-006 38-630-016 38-630-026 38-630-036
38-630-007 38-630-017 38-630-027 38-630-037
38-630-008 38-630-018 38-630-028
38-630-009 38-630-019 38-630-029
38-630-010 38-630-020 38-630-030
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 3
11. The RDW shows that the design flow for the leachfields is approximately10,300 gallons per day.
12. Percol ation tests performed on the leachfield indicate that the average percolation at a soil depth of
36 inches is approximately 39 minutes per inch and around 60 minutes per inch at a soil depth of 60
inches. The disposal trenches are 46 inches deep and 36 inches wide with 30 inches of drainage
rock below the distribution lateral. The wastewater application rate is approximately 0.3 gallons
per day per square foot of disposal trench.
13. On 2 July and 10 July 2001, Amador Water Agency collected samples of the wastewater effluent
discharged from the the two dosing siphon tanks to the leachfield. The sample data from each
monitoring event are presented below.

Constituent Units 2 July 2001
Sample
Concentration 10 July 2001
Sample
Concentration

pH S.U. 6.8 6.8
Total Dissolved Solids mg/l 282 304
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/l 56 58
BOD 5 mg/l 106 176
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml >2400 >2400
Total Fecal Organisms MPN/100 ml >2400 >2

14. The sample data indicates that the septic tanks provide primary treatment. Wastes that pass through
the septic tanks are discharged to the soil underlying the leach lines. The soil underlying the leach
lines treats some of the remaining wastes. However, the amount of treatment depends on the waste
type and concentra tions, soil type and depth, percolation rates, wastewater application rates, and
depth to groundwater. Without adequate treatment, wastes in the wastewater may migrate through
the soil column to the underlying groundwater. Therefore, this Order requires Amador Water
Agency to conduct groundwater monitoring around the leachfield. Groundwater monitoring is
appropriate and necessary to monitor the effectiveness of treatment within the soil column and
assure groundwater quality consistent with terms specifie d herein.
15. Wildwood Estates Community Leachfield was formerly regulated by Amador County
Environmental Health Department.
16. On 1 February 1996, the Amador County Environmental Health Department conducted an
inspection of Wildwood Estates Community Leachfiel d. The inspection report states “ In the
southeast portion of the site, near a dosing tank, numerous small cedars, less than 12” tall, were
seen. Experience has shown that one of the biggest threats to leachfield longevity is infiltration of
leach rock by tree roots.”
17. On 19 March 1998, the Amador County Environmental Health Department conducted a second
inspection of the Wildwood Estates Community Leachfield. The inspection report states “ Several
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 4
cedar and pine saplings have sprouted over the drainage field. Removal of these saplings should be
prioritized to prevent root intrusion which is a major cause of premature leachfield failure .”
18. On 24 February 2000, Amador County Environmental Health Department conducted a third
inspection of the Wildwood Estat es Community Leachfield. The inspection report states “ It
appears that there is a broken pipe at valve box serving trenches 28, 29, 30, 46, 47, and 48. There
was effluent on the ground surface and the valve box was full of effluent…No effluent was noted
flowing offsite .”
19. Monitoring of the wastewater depth in the disposal trenches can aid in early detection of leachfield
failure. The Amador Water Agency has installed these observation wells in the disposal trenches
for this purpose. The February 2000 i nspection found ponded effluent in most of the 48 disposal
trenches. The depth of effluent in the disposal trenches ranged from 23 to 42 inches below ground
surface (or 1 to 30 inches above the invert of the trench). Trenches range in depth from 41 to 53
inches below the ground surface.
20. An operation and maintenance manual ,“Wildwood Estates Sewerage System”, was developed for
the WWTF when it was orginally built in 1990; however, the manual does not address operation
and maintaince that are necessary to assure complance with this Order and must be revised.

Sanitary Sewer System
21. The Wildwood Estates Community Leachfield sanitary sewer system consists of a network of two
inch Schedule 40 PVC pipe laid at variable grades throughout the subdivision. Effl uent from the
septic tanks is directed into three primary collection mains that flow into two dosing tanks. Unlike
contemporary collection systems, this collection system does not contain any manholes. Instead, air
relief/vacuum valves have been installed at high points and dead end laterals. The flow rate for the
collection main lines is approximately 80 gallons per minute. Peak flow design for the collection
was based on a single family dwelling flow of 263 gallons per day. Wastewater flows by gravit y to
the dosing tanks located at the treatment plant. The entire WWTF flows via gravity and does not
contain any electrically operated equipment.
22. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the sanitary
sewer sy stem at any point upstream of the wastewater treatment plant (in this case, the dosing
tanks). Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments,
tanks, highlines, etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and disch arges to these facilities are
not considered sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within these
temporary storage/conveyance facilities.
23. Within this system, a sanitary sewer overflow consists of domestic sewage. The chief causes of
sanitary sewer overflows include grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages, sewer line
flood damage, air relief/vacuum valve failures, vandalism, pump station mechanical failures, power
outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, la ck of capacity, and contractor caused blockages.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 5
24. Sanitary sewer overflows often contain high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic organisms, toxic
wastes, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and grease, and other wastes. Sanitary
sewer ov erflows can cause temporary excedences of applicable water quality objectives, pose a
threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic life, and impair the public recreational use and
aesthetic enjoyment of surface waters in the area.
25. The Amador Water Agency is expected to take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate,
and prevent discharges from its sanitary sewer collection system. This Order requires the Amador
Water Agency to prepare and implement a Sanitary Sewer System Operation, Maintenance,
Overflow Prevention, and Response Plan.

Planned Changes in Discharge

26. The WWTF was designed for full buildout of the community. Therefore, the Amador Water
Agency does not have plans for improvement to the WWTF at this time.

Site-Specific Conditi ons

27. The mean annual rainfall, based on data from Electra Power House CIMIS weather station, is
28 inches per year.
28. All portions of the WWTF are outside the 100- year flood zone.
29. The facility lies within the Middle Sierra Hydrologic Unit Area No. 532.40, as depicted on
interagency hydrologic maps prepared by the Department of Water Resources in August 1986.
30. Soils on the site are of the Josephine and Sites series of metasedimentary origin. Soil depth is
shallow and the depth to bedrock is approximately eig ht feet.

Groundwater Degradation

31. State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) Resolution No. 68- 16 (hereafter Resolution 68- 16
or the “Antidegradation Policy”) requires the Regional Board in regulating the discharge of waste to
maintain high quality water s of the state (i.e., background water quality) until it is demonstrated that
any change in quality will be consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not
unreasonably affect beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality less than that described in
the Regional Board’s policies (e.g., quality that exceeds water quality objectives).
32. The Regional Board finds that some degradation of groundwater beneath the leachfield is consistent
with Resolution 68- 16 provided that:
a. The degradat ion is confined within a specified boundary;
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 6
b. The Amador Water Agency minimizes the degradation by fully implementing, regularly
maintaining, and optimally operating best practicable treatment and control (BPTC) measures;
c. The degradation is limited to waste constituents typically encountered in municipal wastewater
as specified in the groundwater limitations in this Order; and
d. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in the Basin Plan.
33. Some degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents released with discharge
from a wastewater utility after effective source control, treatment, and control may be consistent with
maximum benefit to the people of California. The energy and waste management advantages of
publicly managed utility service exceed individual wastewater systems. Degradation of groundwater
by certain constituents (e.g., toxic chemicals) and by other constituents that can be effectively
removed by conventional treatment (e.g., total coliform bac teria) is not consistent with Resolution
68-16. When allowed, the degree of degradation permitted depends upon many factors (i.e.,
background water quality, the waste constituent, the beneficial uses and most stringent water quality
objective, source co ntrol measures, waste constituent treatability).

Treatment and Control Practices

34. This wastewater treatment facility provides treatment and control of the discharge that incorporates:
a. An operation and maintenance (O&M) manual; and
b. Staffing to assure prope r operation and maintenance.
35. The facility treats wastewater to primary standards and discharges the wastewater subsurface via
leachlines. Because of the shallow soils, there is minimal potential for constituent attenuation in the
vadose zone. The actual depth to groundwater for the site is not known. In addition, the potential
impacts on groundwater and the appropriate level of degradation that complies with Resolution
68-16 have not been fully evaluated. Therefore, the Amador Water Agency’s current effort may not
constitute BPTC as intended in Resolution 68- 16, and this Order establishes a schedule for tasks to
evaluate BPTC for each conveyance, treatment, storage, and disposal component of the facility and
to further characterize groundwater for sel ected constituents. Completion of these tasks, and
implementation of the approved strategies developed from that work, will ensure that BPTC and the
highest water quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State will be
achieved.
36. This Order establishes interim groundwater limitations for the WWTF that will not unreasonably
threaten present and anticipated beneficial uses or result in groundwater quality that exceeds water
quality objectives set forth in the Basin Plan. This Order c ontains tasks for assuring that BPTC and
the highest water quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State will be
achieved. Accordingly, the discharge is consistent with the antidegradation provisions of
Resolution 68- 16. Based on the results of the scheduled tasks, the Regional Board may reopen this
Order to reconsider groundwater limitations and other requirements to comply with Resolution
68-16.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 7
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

37. The Water Quality Co ntrol Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth
Edition , (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives,
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin, and incorporates by
reference plans and policies adopted by the State Water Resources Control Board. These
requirements implement the Basin Plan.
38. Surface water drainage to Grass Valley Creek, tributary to Sutter Creek, tributary to Dry Creek,
which is in turn t ributary to the Sacramento -San Joaquin Delta .
39. The beneficial uses of Sacramento -San Joaquin Delta are municipal and domestic supply;
agricultural irrigation and stock watering; industrial process and service supply; contact and other
noncontact recreation; warm and cold freshwater habitat; migration for warm and cold water
species; spawning for warm; wildlife habitat; and navigation.
40. The beneficial uses of the underlying groundwater are municipal and domestic supply, agricultural
supply, industrial service supply, and industrial process supply.
41. The Basin Plan establishes numerical and narrative water quality objectives for surface and
groundwater within the basin, and recognizes that water quality objectives are achieved primarily
through the Regional Board’s adoption of waste discharge requirements and enforcement orders.
Where numerical water quality objectives are listed, these are limits necessary for the reasonable
protection of beneficial uses of the water. Where compliance with narrative water quali ty
objectives is required, the Regional Board will, on a case -by-case basis, adopt numerical limitations
in orders, which will implement the narrative objectives to protect beneficial uses of the waters of
the state.
42. The Basin Plan identifies numerical wat er quality objectives for waters designated as municipal
supply. These are the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) specified in the following provisions
of Title 22, California Code of Regulations: Tables 64431- A (Inorganic Chemicals) and 64431- B
(Fluoride) of Section 64431, Table 64444- A (Organic Chemicals) of Section 64444, and Table
64449- A (Secondary Maximum Contaminant Levels -Consumer Acceptance Limits) of Section
64449. The Basin Plan’s incorporation of these provisions by reference is prospective, and includes
future changes to the incorporated provisions as the changes take effect. The Basin Plan recognizes
that the Regional Board may apply limits more stringent than MCLs to ensure that waters do not
contain chemical constituents in concentrations t hat adversely affect beneficial uses.
43. The Basin Plan contains narrative water quality objectives for chemical constituents, tastes and
odors, and toxicity. The toxicity objective requires that groundwater be maintained free of toxic
substances in concentr ations that produce detrimental physiological responses in humans, plants or
animals. The chemical constituent objective requires that groundwater shall not contain chemical
constituents in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses. The tastes and odors objective
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 8
requires that groundwater shall not contain tastes or odors producing substances in concentrations
that cause nuisance or adversely affect beneficial uses.
44. Section 13241 of the Water Code requires the Regional Regional Board to conside r various factors,
including economic considerations, when adopting water quality objectives into its Basin Plan.
Water Code Section 13263 requires the Regional Board to address the factors in Section 13241 in
adopting waste discharge requirements. The S tate Board, however, has held that a Regional Board
need not specifically address the Section 13241 factors when implementing existing water quality
objectives in waste discharge requirements because the factors were already considered in adopting
water qu ality objectives. These waste discharge requirements implement adopted water quality
objectives. Therefore, no additional analysis of Section 13241 factors is required.
45. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated biosolids reuse
regulations in 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge, which establishes
management criteria for protection of ground and surface waters, sets application rates for heavy
metals, and establishes stabilization and disinfection criteria.
46. The Regional Board is using the Standards in 40 CFR 503 as guidelines in establishing this
Order, but the Regional Board is not the implementing agency for 40 CFR 503 regulations. The
Amador Water Agency may have separate and/or additional compliance, reporting, and
permitting responsibilities to the EPA.
47. The State Water Resources Control Board adopted Order No. 97- 03-DWQ (General Permit No.
CAS000001) specifying waste discharge requirements for discharges of storm water associated with
industrial ac tivities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all affected industrial
dischargers. The wastewater treatment plant facilities are located underground and are not exposed
to stormwater runoff. Because there is no storm water discharge, the Ama dor Water Agency is not
required to obtain coverage under General Permit No. CAS000001.
48. On 7 February 1990, in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CCR, Title 14,
Section 15261 et. seq.), the Amador County Planning Commission certifie d a final Negative
Declaration for subdivision project including the community wastewater collection and leachfield
disposal system.
49. Section 13267(b) of California Water Code provides that: “ In conducting an investigation specified
in subdivision (a), the regional board may require that any person who has discharged, discharges,
or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste within its
region, or any citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this s tate who has discharged,
discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who proposes to discharge,
waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters within its region shall furnish,
under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional board
requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the
need for the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring those reports, the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 9
regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the need for the
reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to provide the reports .”
The technical reports required by this Order and t he attached “Monitoring and Reporting Program
No. ___” are necessary to assure compliance with these waste discharge requirements. The
Discharger operates facilities that discharge waste subject to this Order.
50. The California Department of Water Resources sets standards for the construction and destruction
of groundwater wells (hereafter DWR Well Standards), as described in California Well Standards
Bulletin 74 -90 (June 1991) and Water Well Standards: State of California Bulletin 94- 81
(December 1981). These standards, and any more stringent standards adopted by the state or county
pursuant to CWC Section 13801, apply to all monitoring wells.
51. State regulations that prescribe procedures for detecting and characterizing the impact of waste
constituents from waste management units on groundwater are found in Title 27. While the
wastewater treatment facility is exempt from Title 27, the data analysis methods of Title 27 may be
appropriate for determining whether the discharge complies with the terms for prote ction of
groundwater specified in this Order.
52. The discharge authorized herein and the treatment and storage facilities associated with the
discharge, except for discharges of residual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the
requirements of Title 27, Ca lifornia Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 20380 et seq. (hereafter
Title 27). The exemption, pursuant to Title 27 CCR Section 20090(a), is based on the following:
a. The waste consists primarily of domestic sewage and treated effluent;
b. The waste discharge requirements are consistent with water quality objectives; and
c. The treatment and storage facilities described herein are associated with a municipal wastewater
treatment plant.
53. Pursuant to California Water Code Section 13263(g) , discharge is a privilege, n ot a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice

54. The Regional Board considered all the above and the supplemental information and details in the
attached Information Sheet, which is incorporat ed by reference herein, in establishing the following
conditions of discharge.
55. The Regional Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and has provided t hem with an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
56. The Regional Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 10

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that pursuant t o Sections 13263 and 13267 of the California Water Code ,
Wildwood Estates Homeowners, their agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall compl y
with the following on their respective properties:

[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions, and some methods of determining compliance are
contained in the attached "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge
Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]

A. Discharge Prohibitions

1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Surfacing of wastewater around the septic tank is prohibited.
4. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' under Section 2521, Chapter 15 of Title 23 or
'designated', as defined in Section 13173 of California Water Code is prohibited.

B. Discharge Specifications and Provisions
1. Wastewater storage and treatment shall not cause pollution or a nuisance as defined by
Section 13050 of the California Water Code.
2. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released or
discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that c auses violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.
3. All systems and equipment shall be maintained and operated to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge. In particular, the Wildwood Estate
Homeowners shall properly maintain the sewage piping and septic tanks including the timely
removal and disposal of accumulated scum/sludge. Septic tanks that are cracked or otherwise
damaged shall be promptly repaired or replaced.
4. Sludge and solid waste removed from septic tanks shall be pumped and haul only by a
licensed septage hauler.
5. The Wildwood Estate Homeowners shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program
No. ______, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive
Officer.
6. The Wildwood E state Homeowners shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and
Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 11
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. This attachment and its individual
paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
7. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the
existence of this Order by l etter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this
office.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that pursuant to Sections 13263 and 13267 of the California Water Code,
Amador Water Agency, its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in
Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the
following:

[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions, and some methods of determining compliance are
contained in the attached "Standard P rovisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge
Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.]

C. Discharge Prohibitions

1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially trea ted waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of sewage from a sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the dosing tanks is
prohibited. Discharge of treated wastewater outside of the leachfield area is prohibited.
4. Surfacing of wastewater within or downgradient of the leachfield is prohibited.
5. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' under Section 2521, Chapter 15 of Title 23 or
'designated', as defined in Section 13173 of California Water Code is prohibited.
6. The discharge of wastewater to any leachfield trench where a standpipe shows wastewater is
within 12 inches of ground surface is prohibited.
D. Discharge Specifications

1. The 30- day average flow shall not exceed 10,300 gallons per day.
2. Wastewater treatment and leachfield area shall not cause pollution o r a nuisance as defined by
Section 13050 of the California Water Code .
3. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as fences
and signs, or acceptable alternatives.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5 -2002- 0168
AMADOR WATER AGENCY
WILDWOOD ESTATES HOMEOWNERS
WILDWOOD ESTATES COMMUNITY LEACHFI ELD SYSTEM
AMADOR COUNTY

 12
4. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged , or placed where it will be released or
discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes violation of the Groundwater
Limitations.
5. Objectionable odor originating at the leachfield shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of
the property owned by the Amador Water Agency.
6. All treatment, storage, and leachfields shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100- year return frequency.
7. Application of wastewater shall be confined to the leachfields as defined in this Order.
8. The Amador Water Agency shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge. In particular,

a. The Amador Water Agency shall conduct inspections of the s eptic tanks on at least an
annual basis.

b. The Amador Water Agency shall cut the vegetation and remove the plant litter from the
leachfield as needed to prevent root intrusion into the leachlines and drainage rocks.

c. The Amador Water Agency shall periodically evaluate the distribution of wastewater to all
the leachlines and make modifications to the systems as necessary.

d. The Amador Water Agency shall semi -annually evaluate the stormwater diversion ditch
and shall maintain the ditch as necessary, including controlling vegetation.

e. The Amador Water Agency shall operate and maintain the WWTF in accordance with the
Operation and Maintenace Plan specifed in Provision No. H.1.c.

9. A 100- foot buffer zone shall be maintained between any watercourse and the leachfiel d.
10. A 100- foot buffer zone shall be maintained between any spring, domestic well or irrigation
well and the leachfield.
11. A 50 -foot buffer zone shall be maintained between the leachfield and all property boundaries.

E.