FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Clovis and serves a portion of
the City’s population . The design daily annual average flow capacity of the Facility is
2.8 MGD , with plans to expand the capacity to 5.6 MGD in approximately 2032 .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Operations at the Facility commenced in July 2009. The Facility treats domestic
wastewater generated by three main service areas within the City of Clovis – the
Northwest, Northeast, and Southwest service areas. Raw wastewater from the
Fowler wastewater trunk line is diverted at Pump Station B and pumped to Pump
Station E. Additional wastewater is gravity -fed to Pump Station E, whic h pumps the
combined flow to the Facility.
The treatment system at the Facility consists of primary, secondary, and tertiary
units. Primary treatment consists of 2 -millimeter (mm) drum screens with a bypass
channel/bar with screens and a vortex grit removal mechanism. Wastewater flows
from the prim ary treatment units into two main bioreactor trains used for secondary
treatment. Each bioreactor train consists of two anoxic zones followed by one
aerobic zone with two aeration grids. Flow from the aerobic zone is pumped to the
membrane filtration units , which provide tertiary treatment. The tertiary -treated
effluent is disinfected using an ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system. Currently,
disinfected tertiary -treated wastewater is stored in one 3.08 million gallon (MG)
bolted -steel tank. A second 3 .08 MG bolted -steel tank will be added with the
completion of Phase II, as described in section II.E of this Fact Sheet. The tertiary -
treated effluent is either used as recycled water for landscape irrigation throughout
the Clovis area or discharged to one of two surface water locations (Fancher Creek
at Discharge Point 001 or the Diversion Channel at Discharge Point 002).
Solids are passed through a solids reduction process utilizing interchange tanks.
The return activated sludge (RAS) is held in the interchange tanks for approximately
10 days, under specific environmental conditions, to break down the solids.
CITY OF CLOVIS ORDER R5- 2024 -0036
SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER REUSE FACILITY NPDES CA0085235
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6Following the interchange tanks, the reduced solids are purged into the digester,
which holds the solids for 10 to 15 days. After detainment in the digester, the solids
are sent to dewatering equipment, which includes a centrifuge. The dewatered
biosolids are hauled off -site to the Clovis Municipal Solid Waste Landfill. As a
backup option, the biosolids could be hauled to a Class B Solids land application
facility or a composting facility. The Facility produces approximately 385 dry metric
tons of biosolids , annually. Transportatio n and disposal/reuse of the biosolids are
regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger intends to build the Facility in a series of phases. The Facility is
currently in Phase I and this permit addresses effluent limitations and discharge
prohibitions associated with Phases I and II, at the Discharger’s request. Phase II of
the Facility expansion project includes installation of a second 3.08 MG bolted -steel
tank, increasing the design average annual discharge flow from 2.8 MGD to
5.6 MGD and the design average monthly discharge flow from 3.1 MGD to 6.2 MGD.
Effluent limitation s and discharge prohibitions for the Phase II Facility are only
applicable following compliance with the special provisions in section VI.C.6.b of the
Order. Phase II is not expected to begin until 2032.
III.