wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
7. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 6, the dissolved
oxygen conten t in the upper zone (one foot) of the effluent storage tank(s) shall not be
less than 1.0 mg/L.
8. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as
fences and signs, or acceptable alternatives.
9. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
10. The wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal system shall be designed,
constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods
with a 100 -year return frequency.
11. The WWTF shall have sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity to
accommodate allowable wastewater flow, design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary
infiltration and infl ow during the winter months. Design seasonal precipitation shall be
based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed
monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
12. The freeboard in the effluent storage tanks shall never be less than two feet as
measured vertically from the water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
13. By 1 November each year, available storage tank capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications No. 11 and No. 12.
14. The Discharger’s highest priority shall be to treat and dispose of liquid wastes contained
in the Class II surface impoundment. The Class II surface impoundment shall be
emptied by 1 November of each year.
15. The Discharger shall i mplement the items described in Spray Irrigation Management
Plan submitted as part of the RWD.
16. The effluent storage tanks shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. In
particular,
a. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, and/or
herbicides.
WASTE DISCHARGE EQUIREMENTS ORDER R5 -2006 -0019 -001 19
EL DORADO COUNTY
UNION MINE SEPTAGE/LEACHATE TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
b. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
C.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

