wastewater
treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency and
routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter a nd other monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identifi cation of who performed the calib ration (Standard Provision C.6).
4. A statement whether the current operation and ma intenance manual, and contingency plan, reflect
the wastewater treatment facility as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these
documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pu rsuant to Standard Pr ovision B.5 and a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the past five years.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PR OGRAM NO. R5-2004-0008 -10-
CITY OF ORANGE COVE WWTF FRESNO COUNTY 6. The most recent annual water supply re port for the City of Orange Cove.
7. A summary of the report on recyc ling and effluent disposal oper ations in the Use Area that
includes for each distinct parcel monthly and annu al totals of applied (a) fresh water (af/acre),
(b) wastewater (af/acre), (c) total nitrogen (lbs/acre) , and (d) TDS (lbs/acre). The report shall also
include a water and nitrogen balance for each parcel and a summary of the crops grown.
8. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids. b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handli ng facilities and solids flow diagram.
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the
disposal methods used at the WWTF. If mo re than one method is used, include the
percentage of annual sludge production disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal , include: (a) the Or der numbers of WDRs that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c) the names
and locations of the f acilities receiving sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the Order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
iii. For incineration , include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where sludge
incineration occurs, (b) the Or der numbers of WDRs that regulate the site(s), (c) the
disposal method of ash, and (d) the names a nd locations of facilities receiving ash (if
applicable).
iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the s ite(s), and (b) the Order numbers of
any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
9. A summary of pretreatment activities, including:
a. A summary of the inspection and sampling ac tivities conducted by the Discharger during the
past year to gather informati on and data regarding the industrial users. The summary shall
include but not be limited to, a tabulation of cat egories of industrial discharges that were
inspected and sampled; how ma ny and how often; and incidents of noncompliance detected.
b. A summary of the compliance and enforcement activities during the past year of industrial
users noncompliance of the local discharge limitations. The summary shall include the
names and addresses of the industrial users aff ected by any of the following actions: warning
letters, notices of violation, administrative or ders, civil, criminal, assessment of monetary
penalties (identify the amount of the penalties), restricti on of flow to the WWTF; or
disconnection from disc harge to the WWTF.
10. A tabulation of all groundwater monitoring analyt ical data obtained during the previous four
quarterly reporting periods in electr onic format (e.g., Excel© spreadsheet).
11. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have
occurred, the report shall also discuss the corr ective actions taken a nd planned to bring the
discharge into full compliance with this Order.

MONITORING AND REPORTING PR OGRAM NO. R5-2004-0008 -11-
CITY OF ORANGE COVE WWTF FRESNO COUNTY
All reports submitted in response to this Program sh all comply with the signatory requirements of
Standard Provision B.3.

The Discharger shall implement the above Program on the first day of the month following adoption of
this Order.
 Original signed by
 ____________________________________
 THOMAS R. PINKOS, Executive Officer

 30 January 2004

 (Date)
ARP/JLK/fmc:1/30/04
INFORMATION SHEET
 ORDER NO. R5-2004-0008 CITY OF ORANGE COVE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY FRESNO COUNTY
Background

The City of Orange Cove (hereafte r Discharger or City) owns and ope rates a wastewater collection and
treatment facility (WWTF) that provides sewa ge service for about 8,700 residents. The WWTF
currently consists of headworks, five aeration po nds (series) with an ove rflow pond, a sludge settling
pond, a flocculation tank, micro-screens, two traveling bridge filters (parallel) , a chlorination system,
three spillage containment ponds (series), and f our evaporation/percola tion ponds (storage ponds 1
through 4). A portion of the effluent from the storage ponds is discha rged via pipeline to the Orange
Cove Irrigation District (hereafter District) for unrestric ted use. As described below, the City plans to
make improvements to and expand the WWTF (hereafte r Expansion Project). The Expansion Project is
described in detail in a report of wast e discharge (RWD) dated 11 February 2003.
 Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 5-00-078, adopted by the Regional Board on
28 April 2000, limits the discharge flow to 0.9 mgd until the Discharger subm its a written technical
report certifying that its WWTF has adequate hydraulic and treatment capacity for a discharge of
1.0 mgd. The Discharger has not submitted this report and therefore continues to be restricted to the
0.9 mgd discharge flow limit. Order No. 5-00-078 doe s not reflect the confi guration of the proposed
Expansion Project.

In 1991, the tertiary portion of th e WWTF was constructed to provide treatment to meet statewide
recycling criteria for unrestricted reuse. Tertiary treatment is provided by a flocculation tank and two
traveling bridge gravity shallow bed filters. Before being discharged to storage ponds, filtered effluent
is discharged into a chlorine cont act pipe that has a continual residua l chlorine analyzer at the pipe’s
terminus, which discharges to the storage ponds. Up to 3 mgd of effluent from the storage ponds may be discharged via pipelines to the District for
distribution in Improvement District s 7 and 8 (District Use Area). The District’s use of recycled water
on the District Use Area is regulated by Wastewat er Reclamation Requirements (WRRs) Order No.
89-064. According to the District , the City provided approximate ly 19, 142, 150, and 46 acre-feet of
effluent during 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002, respectively, and none in 2003. The City obtains its source water from City wells a nd surface water. Source wa ter is supplied primarily
from the Friant-Kern Canal after appropriate treatment and is of good quality, with an EC of about
100 µmhos/cm. An alternative water supply that is infrequently used is groundwater from the City’s
municipal wells, which contains elevat ed concentrations of nitrate attrib uted to agricultural (fertilizers)
and residential (septic tanks) land uses. During r ecent years, the City has reduced its use of the
groundwater supply, and reports curren tly using about 100 to 150 gpm, a small percentage of its daily
water supply. Some of Order No. 5-00-078 efflue nt limitations and monitoring requ irements are listed in Table 1
below:
INFORMATION SHEET — ORDER NO. R5-2004-0008 -2-
CITY OF ORANGE COVE WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY


TABLE 1
SELECTED REQUIREMENTS AND MONITORING FREQUENCIES
Constituent Units Order Requirements Monitoring Frequency
BOD 51 mg/L 102 Weekly
TSS3 mg/L 102 Weekly
SS4 mL/L 0.1 Daily
Turbidity NTU5 2.06 Daily
TCO7 MPN8/100 ml 239 Daily
pH pH units Between 6.5 and 9.0 Daily Pond dissolved oxygen mg/L > 1.0 Daily
1 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
2 Monthly average
3 Total Suspended Solids
4 Settleable Solids
5 Nephelometric turbidity units
6 Daily average
7 Total Coliform Organisms
8 Most probable number
9 Shall not exceed in more than one sample within a 30-day period

Sludge has reportedly not been removed from any of th e aeration ponds since they were put into service.
The City estimates that there may be as much as th ree feet of sludge accumula ted in the initial aeration
pond. The City submitted a Sludge Management Plan, dated August 2003, characterizing the sludge in
the aeration ponds. The Plan indicates that the sludge will need to be remove d prior the start of the
Expansion Project, but does not include an implementation schedule for its removal.

Compliance History

The City has failed to consistently comply with the