wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF
for emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the
calibrations (standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and
the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
· 5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provisions
E.4 and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five
calendar years;
6. The most recent water supply report including laboratory data;
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids;
b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow
diagram; and
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related
to the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is
used, include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each
method.
i. For landfill disposal, include (a) the Order numbers that regulate
the landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s)
(
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2007-0090
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON .-10-
KERN COUNTY
used, and (c) the names and locations of the facilities receiving the
sludge.
ii. For land application, include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b)
the Order number of any WDRs that regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s)
where sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs
that regulate the site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the
names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
iv. For composting, include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the
order numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
8. A summary of all recycled water operations for the previous year (i.e., from
October through September). The summary shall discuss total monthly water
application; total wastewater recycled annually; total .nutrient loading annually
from applied wastewat~r, biosolids, and chemical fertilizers; and total estimated
amount of nutrients removed through crop harvest. The summary shall also
review the use area management plan (described in Provision F.7) and make
recommendations. regarding continuation or modification of the plan .. In short,
the summary shall present a mass balance relative to constituents of concern
and hydraulic loading along with supporting data and calculations.
9. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions
taken and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
1 O.A statement regarding whether the current operation and maintenance manual,
and contingency plan, reflect the groundwater cleanup system as currently
constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last
reviewed for adequacy.
Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Mon1toring Report shall be prepared as a
fourth quarter groundwater monitoring report. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring
Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly
groundwater monitoring schedule plus the results of any annually sampled groundwater
constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally
presented in the quarterly groundwater monitoring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four qua~ers;
2. Graphs of the analytical data for all samples collected from each monitoring well
for at least five calendar years. Each such graph shall plot over time for a given ·
( ';
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0090
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON_
KERN COUNTY -11-
monitoring well the concentration of one or more waste constituents specified
herein and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs
shall be plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in water
quality, and shall plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the previous monitoring events for at least
the last five calendar years.
All technical reports required herein must be overseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California· Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1.
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision 8.3.
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any
violations during the reporting period and all actions taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence "'(ill be satisfactory.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order. 1,.,..~,
C1-l~~ClALu;1,r~
PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
U (Date)
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. RS-2007-0090
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY .
Background ' I
I
The California Department of Corrections (Discharger) operates a wastewater collection,
treatment, and disposal facility (WWTF) at the Kern Valley State Prison (Prison). The WWTF
was designed and constructed to process all of the wastewater generated from the Prison. No
outside sewer mains are connected to the Prison sewer system. The WWTF has an average
daily flow of 0.77 million gallons per day (mgd). ·
The 'Discharger submitted a report of waste discharge (RWD) dated 8 April 2003, for a new
WWTF to serve the Prison. The WWTF provides disinfected secondary treatment of the
wastewater stream. Treatment includes screening to remove large solids, extended aeration,
and disinfection. Waste activated sludge is pumped to lined drying beds pending offsite
disposal. Disinfected effluent is discharged into two unlined storage ponds and subsequently
discharged to a 200-acre effluent disposal area or use area.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
Screenings and grit removed from the wastewater are dewatered and placed in a dumpster
prior to disposal at an offsite landfill. Sludge is discharged to th~ six lined sludge-.drying beds
for digestion and thickening. The sludge drying beds are lined with soil cement and have
under drain systems to return liquids to the headworks. The Discharger will have sludge
hauled by a composting firm for reuse of the sludge as compost.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The Basin Plan indicates the greatest long-term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake Basin is
increasing salinity in groundwater, a process accelerated by man's activities and particularly
affected by intensive irrigated agriculture. The Regional Board encourages proactive
management of waste streams by dischargers to control addition of salt through use, and has
established an incremental EC limitation of 500 umhos/cm as the measure of the maximum
permissible addition of salt constituents through use; A more restrictive limitation on salt
constituents added through use is appropriate where necessary to assure compliance with a
groundwater limitation for any constituent established by the Regional Water _Board.
Antidegradation .
The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, "Statement of
Policy With Respect to Maintaining High Quality Waters in California," or "Antidegradation
Policy" require that waters of the State. that are better in quality than established water quality
objectives be maintained "consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State."
Waters can be of high quality for some constituents or beneficial uses and ·not others. Policy
and procedures for.complying with this directive are set forth in the basin plan.
II ¥
(
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2007-0090
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON -2-
Shallow groundwater in the vicinity of the Prison is not of high water quality. EC and TDS
concentrations in background groundwater are four to five times greater than that of the
effluent that is discharged and thus no degradation will occur. Any impacts to the shallow
groundwater will be localized and will not affect any beneficial uses. Due to the low
permeability of the confining clay layer, .it is expected that there will be minimal migration from
the shallow groundwater to the deeper, confined groundwater. Any migration that does occur
will be at or below the natural background levels of the shallow groundwater.
Treatment Technology and Control .
The D.ischarger provides treatment and control of the discharge that incorporates:
a. Alarm and automatic flow diversion systems to prevent system bypass or overflow;
..
b. Secondary treatment of the wastewater;
c. A nitrogen removal treatment process;
d. Disinfection of treated effluent;
e. Recycled water application at plant uptake (for nitrogen and water) rates;
f. Appropriate biosolids storage and disposal practices;
g. An Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manual; and
h. Certified operators to insure proper operation and maintenance.
The disinfection of the treated effluent was required due to the possibility of groundwater
occurring within five feet of the effluent storage pond bottoms. The Discharger had the option
. of lining the storage ponds, or disinfecting the effluent and chose the latter option.
Compliance History
Regional Water Board staff has conducted two inspections of the WWTF. The first inspection
was on 15 January 2005 and the next on 21 February 2006. The 15 January 2005 inspection
noted several deficiencies including the lack of an O&M manual, cracks in the soil cement lining
the aeration basins and sludge drying beds,. lack of wash water containment structures, various
components of the WWTF (chlorine contact chamber, blowers, etc) that were inoperable or
being operated manually, and an area in need of repair due to· a broken water line. The
Discharger had corrected all the cited violations except for the automatic operation of the
components of the WWTF by the time of the February 2006 inspection. The Discharger
continues to have all WWTF personnel trained to use the automated system to increase the
WWTF efficiency.
The Regional Water Board adopted Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) No. R5-2005-
0824 on 18 August 2005 in accordance with the provisions of CWC section 13267. The MRP.
(
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. RS-2007-0090
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON -3-
allowed the Discharger to characterize the waste discharge while operating in accordance with
the provisions of CWC section 13264. The discharger submits monthly Self Monitoring reports
per the requirements contained in the MRP. The results illustrate the effectiveness of the
WWTF with 97% and 98% removal for BOD and TSS, respectively.
The Discharger's tenant farmer uses the disinfected water to supplement the irrigation of
alfalfa, Sudan grass, or corn silage on the 200-acre Use Area that is not used for" human
consumption. The Discharger submitted a Recycled Water System Management Plan in July
2006 that illustrates that the crops will remain nitrogen deficient even if all of the treated
wastewater was applied to the crops .
. Groundwater Conditions
Regional groundwater flows westerly and the depth of water occurs about 40 feet below
ground surface (bgs), according to information in Lines of Equal Elevation of Water in Wells in
· Unconfined Aquifer, published by the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) in
Spring 1997. The actual depth to shallow groundwater is on the order of .10 to 30 feet bgs and
resulted in the discharger disinfecting the effluent, as there was a possibility the depth of water
beneath the storage ponds would have been less than 5 feet from the base of the ponds. This
uppermost groundwater layer is separated from the remainder of the aquifer by a confining
clay layer, designated the Corcoran Clay, at about 300 feet bgs. Generally, water quality is
better· in the confined aquifer below the Corcoran Clay, and most domestic and irrigation wells
in the area are perforated below the Corcoran Clay.
Shallow groundwater exceeds Water Quality Objectives for nitrate as nitrogen, EC, TDS,
chloride, and arsenic. However, the spatial distribution of the elevated results indicate they
are regional in nature and do not reflect an impact from the WWTF. The Discharger collected
samples from six shallow groundwater wells in 1999 and 2000, prior to the construction of the
prison and WWTF. EC concentrations ranged from about 700 to 5,200 umhos/cm; TDS
concentrations from about 900 to 4,000 mg/L; chloride concentrations from about 40 to 420
mg/L; and nitrate concentrations from about 10 to 81 mg/L. These concentrations are nearly
identical to the results observed in the Discharger's current monitoring well network indicating
the current conditions have not been impacted by the operation of the WWTF.
Title 27
Title 27, CCR, section 20005 et seq. (Title 27), contains· regulations to address certain
discharges to land. Title 27 establishes a waste classification system,· specifies siting and
construction standards_ for full containment of classified waste, requires extensive monitoring
of groundwater and the unsaturated zone for any indication of failure of containment, and
·specifies closure and post-closure maintenance requirements. Generally, no degradation of
groundwater quality by any waste constituent in a classified waste is acceptable under Title 27
regulations.
Discharges of domestic sewage and treated effluent can be treated and controlled to a degree
that will not result in unreasonable degradation of groundwater. For this reason, they have
I I (
(
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2007-0090
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON .-4-
been conditionally exempted from Title 27. Treatment and storage facilities for sludge that are
part of the WWTF are considered exempt from Title 27 under section 20090(a), provided that
the facilities not result in a violation of any water quality objective. However, residual sludge
(for the purposes of the proposed Order, sludge that will not be subjected to further tr~atment
by the WWTF) is not exempt from Title 27. Solid waste (e.g., grit and screenings) that results
from treatment of domestic sewage and industrial waste also is not exempt from Title 27. This
residual sludge and solid waste are subjectto the provisions of Title 27.
Accordingly, the municipal discharge of effluent and the operation of treatment or storage
facilities associated with a municipal wastewater treatment plant can be allowed without
requiring compliance with Title 27, but only if resulting d~gradation of groundwater is in
accordance with the Basin Plan.
CEQA
The Discharger certified an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) on 8 June 2001 in accordance
with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000,
et, seq.) and the State CEQA guidelines (Title 14, Division 6, California Code of Regulations,
as amended). The Superior Court of California required the Discharger to withdraw the
certification until a cumulative impact analysis could be prepared. The Discharger certified a
Cumulative Impact Report dated August 2001 with the report identifying impacts including
water usage. The report concluded the Prison and WWTF will not have an impact on water
resources of the region and was consistent with Basin Plan requirements. The Discharger
submitted a Notice of Determination on 13 December 2001 indicating the project would have a
significant effect on the environment, but mitigation measures were a condition of approval
and a Statement of Overriding Considerations was adopted for the project. The Regional
Water Board, as a responsibl.e agency under CEQA, has reviewed the final EIR for the project
relative to impacts to groundwater quality and concurs that the design of the WWTF and the
treatment and control practices (lined aeration basins and sludge drying beds, disinfecting
effluent, recycling treated secondary disinfected effluent) will mitigate the project's potential
groundwater impacts.
Proposed Order Terms and Conditions
Discharge Prohibitions, Specifications and Provisions
The proposed Order prohibits discharge to surface waters and water drainage courses and
cross connection between potable water and well water piping with recycled water piping ..
The discharge specification regarding EC is consistent with Regional Water Board policy for
effluent salinity limitation of the monthly flow-weighted average EC of the source water plus
500 umhos/cm. "The discharge specifications regarding dissolved oxygen and freeboard are
consistent with Regional Board policy for the prevention of nuisance conditions, and are
applied to all such facilities.
(
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. RS-2007-0090
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
KERN VALLEY STATE PRISON (
-5-
The