FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Dunsmuir and serves a
population of approximately 1,700 . The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 0.30 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of an aerated grit chamber, a selector,
a Dimminutor, an oxidation ditch, a secondary clarifier, traveling bridge filter s,
chlorine (Cl 2) gas chlorination, and sulfur dioxide (SO 2) gas dechlorination systems.
The design capacity of the Facility is an average dry weather flow of 0.30 million
gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet weather flow of 2.0 MGD. In 2022, the
Facility operated at an average dry weather flow of 0.277 MGD and a peak wet
weather flow of 0.60 M GD. Between January 2019 and December 2022, the Facility
operated at an average dry weather flow of 0.255 MGD and a peak wet weather flow
of 2.12 MGD.
Advanced -secondary treated effluent is discharged to the Sacramento River through
a multiport diffuser. As allowed by this Order, effluent may be discharged to the
Sacramento River between 16 September and 14 June. During the summer months,
all treated was tewater is discharged to the Facility’s five percolation ponds. Effluent
discharged to the percolation ponds is subject to secondary treatment standards and
receives that same level of treatment, including filtration, as effluent being
discharged to surfac e water with the exception of d echlorination. While the
percolation ponds can be utilized at any time during the year, they were never
intended to handle year -round flows due to the impact of winter rains, wintertime
groundwater intrusion, and increased flows due to I&I. Additionally, di scharge to the
percolation ponds outside of the summer period can affect the on -site effluent
storage volume available for summertime use. Percolation pond volumes and depths
are provided below.
Percolation Pond Volume (acre -feet) Depth (feet)
1 4.01 6.9
2 6.94 8.8
3 0.97 7.0
4 6.31 5.8
5 2.17 4.8
Biosolids produced in the aerobic digester are discharged to two gunite -lined sludge
lagoons for storage and further decomposition. During the summer months, three
sludge drying beds are used to dry biosolids pumped from the sludge lagoons. The
drying bed system consists of three concrete pads with sidewalls and an underdrain
system. Dried biosolids are transported to a paved , upper area, located northeast of
the Facility for further drying before being hauled to an offsite landfill. Sludge storage
in the upper paved area is temporary; all solids are typically hauled offsite by the e nd
of October. In addition, there is a drain at the upper paved area that drains any
waste liquids back into the oxidation ditch. The Facility produces approximately
CITY OF DUNSMUIR ORDER R5 -2024-0009
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0078441
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6 20 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of
the biosolids are regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger received a Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) planning
grant for the Facility in January 2017 ; the grant evaluated the following deficiencies
at the Facility: proper rag removal, automated aeration in the oxidation ditch with
variable frequency drive, SCADA/telemetry upgrade, disinfection by -product
concerns, and diffuser location. The improvements are dependent upon the
availability of funding. Per the ROWD, the Discharger submitted a n Improvement
Project Construction Funding Applicati on in February 2022, and the Discharger
expects to receive a Funding Agreement for the improvement projects.
To address recent total coliform organisms effluent limitation violations, the
Discharger has purchased a new flow meter to be installed upstream of the chlorine
contact chamber (CCC). The new flow meter is expected to improve chlorine dosing
accuracy as the chlorine will now be dosed based on the flow entering the CCC,
which is also the chlori ne dosing location. Chlorine is currently dosed on the flow
leaving the CCC, approximately 500 feet downstream of the chlorine injection point,
which can cause a lag in adjusting the chlorine dose. In addition, the Discharger
plans to install a variable frequency drive (VFD) on the south aerator in the oxidation
ditch. The oxidation ditch aerators were installed in 1974 and are fixed speed. The
south aerator is not required to operate as often as the north aerator, as its main
purpo se is to keep material suspended in the oxidation ditch. Therefore, the
Discharger shuts the aerator off frequently throughout the day to control the
dissolved oxygen levels in the oxidation ditch. As a result , this fluctuates the flow
moving through the plant , ultimately impacting the chlorine dosing at the CCC. The
Discharger believe s these improvements will reduce the fluctuations in the chlorine
dosing during low- and high -flow events.
III.