wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the
calibrations (standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as curr ently constructed and operated, and the
dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an annual evaluation conduc ted pursuant to Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
6. The most recent water suppl y report including laboratory data;
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids; b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow
diagram; and
c. A description of disposal methods, in cluding the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of sludge producti on disposed of by each method.

i. For landfill disposal, include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c) the names and locations of the fa cilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application , include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs t hat regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Or der numbers of WDRs that regulate
the site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2008-0127 -8-
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 34
MILLERTON NEW TOWN WWTF FRESNO COUNTY

iv. For composting , include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).

8. A summary of all recycled water operations for the previous year (i.e., from October
through September). The summary shall discuss total monthly water application;
total wastewater recycled annually; total nutrient loading annually from applied wastewater, biosolids, and chemical fe rtilizers; and total estimated amount of
nutrients removed through crop harvest. The summary shall also review the use area management plan (described in Prov ision F.7) and make recommendations
regarding continuation or modification of the plan. In short, the summary shall
present a mass balance relative to consti tuents of concern and hydraulic loading
along with supporting data and calculations.
9. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.

All technical reports required herein must be ov erseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1. All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision B.3. A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any violations during the reporting period and all acti ons taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time sc hedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The Discharger shall implement the above monito ring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 31 July 2008
 (Date)
kc/DKP: 6/30/08
INFORMATION SHEET

R5-2008-0127 FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 34 MILLERTON NEW TOWN WWTF FRESNO COUNTY


Background Fresno County Service Area No. 34 (hereafter Discharger or Fresno CSA # 34) was formed in
1986 to operate and maintain public utilities fo r the planned Millerton New Town development.
When completed, Millerton Ne w Town will comprise approximately 2,200 acres, with about
3,400 homes and related commercial uses and re creational developments on Millerton Road
east of Friant.
The existing secondary wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) provides sewerage service for
about 80 homes in the Brighton Crest developm ent. The existing secondary WWTF has a
constructed capacity of 0.056 million gallons per day (mgd) and consists of a septic tank
effluent pumping (STEP) system, recirculati ng sand filter, and lined evaporation ponds.
The WWTF for the Millerton New To wn area south of Millerton Road is currently regulated by
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 02-193, which was adopted in October
2002. Order No. 02-193 provides for the ex pansion of the existi ng secondary WWTF on an
interim basis until a tertiary WWTF is construct ed. According to the plans, the tertiary WWTF
will be constructed in phases to provide suffi cient capacity as t he community grows.
Construction on the first phase of the tertiary WWTF (Phase 1) with a capacity of 0.2 million
gallons per day (mgd) has been comp leted. However, it will not be put into operation until the
infrastructure for the water recycling system is complete and sufficient fl ows to the treatment
plant warrant operation of the tertiary treatment system.
In August 2007, the Discharger s ubmitted a Report of Waste Di scharge (RWD) to modify its
existing Order to include the area north of Mille rton Road that lies within the boundary of
Fresno CSA # 34, and allow for the use of recycled water for fire protection and irrigation of residential lots. The Discharger also submitt ed a Master Reclamation Permit application to
regulate the distribution of recycled wate r under Fresno CSA #34 on land owned by
individuals within Millerton New Town.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
The Discharger currently disposes of sludge at the Fresno County landfil l and will continue to
do so until the WWTF reaches 0. 056 mgd. Once the tertiary WWTF goes online, wasted
sludge will be pumped to an aerated sludge storage tank for digestion and initial thickening
and trucked off-site for disposal at an approved receiving facility. Decant water from the
sludge storage tanks will be returned to the treat ment system at the headworks. The RWD
indicates that in the future, a sludge dewatering unit, such as a centrif uge, screw, or belt press
will be added when the volume of sludge increases su fficiently to justify the capital cost and
additional labor.

INFORMATION SHEET R5-2008-0127 -2-
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 34
MILLERTON NEW TOWN WWTF FRESNO COUNTY


Groundwater Conditions
Regional groundwater is contained in frac tured bedrock and to a lesser extent in
alluvial/weathered bedrock deposits . Groundwater typically flow s northeast to southwest.
Depth to water is variable, with shallow grou ndwater encountered at depths less than 10 feet
below grade on portions of the Use Area. Two monito ring wells were installed in the vicinity of
the existing effluent storage ponds. Based on data collected, groundwat er in the area was
generally of good quality, except fo r nitrates with average EC, chlo ride, and nitrate as nitrogen
concentrations of 300 µmhos/cm, 15 mg/L and 12 mg/L, respectively. The average nitrate
concentration at 12 mg/L exceed s the primary maximum contamin ant level (MCL) for nitrate
as nitrogen of 10 mg/L.
 Due to the low volume of the initial stage of t he WWTF, and the fact t hat the effluent storage
ponds were lined the WWTF would not appear to be the source of the ni trate in groundwater.
With replacement of the exis ting pond liner with a new high- density polyethylene liner with a
permeability less than 10
-7 cm/sec and application of recycled water at agronomic rates,
further degradation of groundwater for nitrates in not expected.
Source water for the majority of the developm ent at Millerton New Town is and will be surface
water from Millerton Lake. For Marina Estate s, source water will be from groundwater
provided by a community supply well:
Constituent/Parameter
 Units Millerton New Town
Potable Water
Supply Marina Estates
Well Water
EC µmhos/cm 58 250
Chloride mg/L 4.5 23
Sodium mg/L 8.7 50
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 52 150
Nitrate (as Nitrogen) mg/L - - - ND
ND = Not detected

Compliance History
The Discharger submits monthly self-monitori ng reports (SMRs) in compliance with the
Monitoring and Reporting Program (M RP). Since the tertiary WW TF is not in operation, the
Discharger is following the old MRP for Order No. 91-068 instead of the MRP attached to its
current Order (02-0193). Effluent quality from t he existing re-circulating gravel sand filtration
system is well within the