FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service to a small development northwest of the City of
Rio Vista and serves a population of approximately 6,000 . The design average dry
weather flow capacity of the Facility is 1.0 MGD .
CITY OF RIO VISTA ORDER R5 -2021 -0004
NORTHWEST WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0083771

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 5 A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of fine screening followed by activated
sludge treatment with anoxic and aerobic bas ins, followed by membrane biological
reactors (MBR ’s), which separate the liquid from the solids. The liquid effluent from
the MBR’s is disinfected using ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. A 2.0 -million -gallon
emergency storage basin lined with high dens ity polyethylene liner is also used to
accommodate flows in excess of the peak hydraulic capacity of 3.0 MGD. However,
due to the slowdown in population growth, the treatment plant receives approximately
25 percent of the design average dry weather flow (e.g., 0.2 5 MGD) and the
emergency storage basin is used for s torage of treated and untreated wastewater
when there are operation failures at the headworks or if effluent fails to meet
standards. When the treatment system is brought back up from an operation al or
treatment failure, the wastewater in the emergency sto rage basin is routed back
through the treatment system. Treated effluent is pumped through approximately 2
miles of pipeline and discharged through a multi -port outfall diffuser approximately
200 feet offshore into the Sacramento River on a year -round basi s.
Sludge is dewatered using belt filter press technology followed by drying in solar
greenhouses. Once dried, the material meets “Exceptional Class A” biosolids criteria
and is stockpiled in one of the solar greenhouses prior to disposal at a regulated
Class III landfill or beneficial land application. The facility produces approximately
127 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually , on average . Transportation and
disposal/reuse of the biosolid s is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Disc harge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code
CITY OF RIO VISTA ORDER R5 -2021 -0004
NORTHWEST WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA 0083771

ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET 9 (commencing wit h section 13370). It shall serve as a n NPDES permit for point source
dischar ges from this Facility to surface waters.
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt
from the pro visions of chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of
division 13 of the Public Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Pla ns
1. Water Quality Control Plan . Requirements of this Order specifically implement
the app licable Water Quality Control Plans.
a. Basin Plan. The Central Valley Water Board adopted a Wate r Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fifth
Edition, May 2018 (hereinafter Basin Plan) that designates beneficial uses,
establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs
and policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed t hrough
the plan. Requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan . In addition,
the Basin Plan implements Stat e Water Board Resolution 88 -63, which
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be
considered suitable or potentially sui table for municipal or domestic supply
(MUN) . Beneficial uses applicable to the Sacramento River within the
Sacramento -San Joaquin Delta are as follows:
Table F -3 Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point