existing facility. Upon completion of impr ovements and submittal of technical documents
describing the improvements, the flow limit can be increased through submittal of a Recycled
Water Expansion Report (RWER), which must be approved by the Executive Officer.
 This
Order will allow the wastewater flow rate to increase to a maximum of 400,000 gpd.
 The WWTF is located in three places. The Tr eatment Area is the loca tion of the headworks,
the Treatment Pond (Pond No. 1), and three wast ewater storage ponds (Ponds No. 2, 3, and
4). An existing off-site Land Application Ar ea (LAA) (LAA No. 1) is equipped with a storage
pond (Pond No. 5). A second off-site land application area (LAA No. 2) is also planned and a storage pond is planned for that location (Pond No . 6), but the pond will not be constructed
until the treatment improvement s at the Treatment Area are scheduled to begin. Pond No. 5
requires deepening to provide adequate storage for the increased flow rate. None of the
ponds are, or are planned to be, equipped with synthetic liners.

Wastewater Treatment

The treatment facility provides biological treatment in an oxidat ion pond. Present treatment
capacity is in excess of 400,000 gpd. However, th is Order limits the discharge flow rate to
300,000 gpd, as the wastewater syst em is limited by the disposal capacity. The Disposal
Improvement Project will incr ease the disposal capacity to 400,000 gpd. To improve
operational flexibility and reliability, the Di scharger has also developed the Treatment
Improvement Project. Each of those projects is described below.
 The Disposal Improvement Project will be per formed upon adoption of this Order. . The
project includes the following: deepening an ex isting pond to increase storage capacity,
INFORMATION SHEET -2-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

installation of groundwater monitoring wells, inst allation of disinfection equipment, preparing a
new LAA for wastewater application, securi ng a legal covenant regarding land use with an
adjacent property owner, and technical report pr eparation and submittal. The improvements
will be described in a Disposal Im provement Project Report.
 The Treatment Improvement Project will be performed based on treatment system
performance criteria described in the WDRs. T he project includes the following: construction
of at least 17 million gallons (Mgal) of storage in a new pond located at LAA No. 2, conversion
of an existing wastewater storage pond to a tw o-cell treatment pond, r ehabilitation of the
existing treatment pond and conversion to a two- cell treatment pond, and addition of two 10-
horsepower mechanical aerators in the existing treatment pond. The add ition of new aerators
in the existing pond will be performed before the rest of the items in the Treatment
Improvement Project. Sludge will be allowed to accumulate in the tr eatment or storage ponds and will be removed on
an as needed basis to maintain pond capacity and tr eatment effectiveness. There are two
pump stations that deliver wast ewater to the WWTF. One of the stations is equipped with an
alarm, the other is visually inspected daily. Th is Order requires all new and existing lift stations
to be equipped with alarms. Additional pump stations will be added as needed with new developments.
Land Application

The Discharger owns 133 acres of land applicati on areas, but plans to apply wastewater to
only 80 acres each year through a LAA rotation that will result in LAAs in use three out of five
years. The fallow land will minimize the impact of salinity on groundwater quality. The water
balance submitted in the RWD states the st orage capacity required is 101 Million gallons
(Mgal) (395 ac•ft) and 80-acres of LAA is requir ed for the designed flow rate of 400,000 gallons
per day (gpd). Recycled water will be applied during spring, summer, and fall months, and if conditions allow,
application during winter months is accept able. Recycled water will be applied to cropped
LAAs. Recycled water will be applied by flood irri gation but sprinkler irrigation is also
acceptable if performed in accordance with t he WDRs. Recycled water will be applied at crop
uptake rates for both nitrogen and water applicati on with a 47-percent irrigation efficiency.
(Indicates 47-percent of wastewater applied is transpired by the crop). Irrigation tailwater will
be controlled using perimeter berms, grading t he area to prevent off-site drainage, and/or
management controls. This Order requires t hat wastewater be disinfected to secondary
standards before application to l and. Therefore, stormwater runoff from the land application
areas is acceptable if wastewater is not applied at least 24-hours before a precipitation event.
The RWD states stormwater will be retained on-site at the land application areas to the extent
possible to dilute concentrations of wastewater percolate.
INFORMATION SHEET -3-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations

Surface water from the WWTF is to the Moke lumne River between Camanche Reservoir and
the Delta. The beneficial uses are agricultura l supply; water contact recreation; non-contact
water recreation; warm freshwater habitat; cold freshwater habitat; migration of aquatic
organisms; spawning, reproduction, and/or early development; and wildlife habitat
The Water Quality Control Plan for the California Regional Water Quality Control Board Central
Valley Region, Fourth Edition (Basin Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water
quality objectives, and contains im plementation plans and policies for all waters of the Basin.
Beneficial uses often determine the water qualit y objectives that apply to a water body. For
example, waters designated as municipal and domestic supply must meet the Maximum
Contaminant Levels (MCLs) for drinking waters. The Basin Plan sets forth the applicable
beneficial uses (industrial, agricultural, and domes tic and municipal supply in this instance) of
groundwater, procedure for application of water quality objectives, and the process for and
factors to consider in allocating waste assimilation capacity.
Antidegradation

The antidegradation directives of State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, “Statement of
Policy With Respect to Maintaining High Qualit y Waters in California,” or “Antidegradation
Policy” require that waters of the State that are better in qualit y than established water quality
objectives be maintained “consistent with the ma ximum benefit to the people of the State.”
Waters can be of high quality for some constit uents or beneficial uses and not others. Policies
and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan. Resolution 68-16 is applied on a case-by-case, cons tituent-by-constituent basis in determining
whether a certain degree of degradation can be just ified. It is incumbent upon the Discharger
to provide technical information for the Regional Board to evaluate that fully characterizes:

• All waste constituents to be discharged;
• The background water quality of the uppermo st layer of the uppermost aquifer;
• The background quality of other waters that may be affected;
• The underlying hydrogeologic conditions;
• Waste treatment and control measures;
• How treatment and control measures are ju stified as best practicable treatment and
control;
• The extent the discharge will impac t the quality of each aquifer; and
• The expected degree of degradation below water quality objectives.
 In allowing a discharge, the Regional Water B oard must comply with CWC Section 13263 in
setting appropriate conditions. The Regional Wa ter Board is required, relative to the
groundwater that may be affected by the dischar ge, to implement the Basin Plan and consider
the beneficial uses to be protected along with t he water quality objectives essential for that
INFORMATION SHEET -4-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

purpose. The Regional Board need not authorize t he full utilization of the waste assimilation
capacity of the groundwater (CWC 13263(b)) and mu st consider other waste discharges and
factors that affect that capacity.
 Certain domestic wastewater constituents ar e not fully amenable to waste treatment and
control and it is reasonable to expect some impact on groundwater. Some degradation for
certain constituents is consistent with maximu m benefit to the people of California because the
technology, energy, water recycling, and wast e management advantages of municipal utility
service to the State far outweigh the envir onmental impact of a community that would
otherwise be reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater systems. Economic
prosperity of local communities is of maximum benef it to the people of Ca lifornia, and therefore
sufficient reason to accommodate wastewat er discharge provided terms of reasonable
degradation are defined and met. The propos ed Order authorizes some degradation
consistent with the maximum benefit to the People of the State but does not authorize pollution
(i.e., violation of any water quality objective). Groundwater monitoring has been conducted at the site but the area monitored is large and
additional investigation is needed at the off-si te storage ponds and land application areas, and
possibly at the Treatment Area; therefore staff is unable to establish the most appropriate
groundwater limits. In addition, certain aspects of wastewater treatment and control practices
may not be justified as representative of Best Practicable Treatment and Control (BPTC).
Reasonable time is necessary to gather specific information about the WWTF to make informed, appropriate, long-term decisions. Th is Order, therefore, establishes interim
groundwater limitations to assure protection of the beneficial uses of gr oundwater of the State
pending the completion of certain tasks and provi des time schedules to complete specified
tasks. During this period, degradation may occu r from certain constituents, but can never
exceed water quality objectives (or natural background water quality should it exceed
objectives) or cause nuisance.

According to the Basin Plan, water quality objecti ves define the least stringent limits that could
apply as water quality limitations for groundwater at this location, except where natural
background quality unaffected by the discharge of waste already exceeds the objective. The
interim groundwater limits below apply numeric and narrative water quality objectives that must
be met to maintain specific beneficial uses of groundwater. The constituents listed are those
that are expected to be found in treated domestic wastewater or to be released from the soil
upon the application of such waste. The Policy for Application of Water Quality Objectives in
Chapter IV of the Basin Plan provides a me chanism to apply narrative objectives using
relevant and appropriate numeric limits published by other agencies and organizations. Due to
the expected high quality of natural background gr oundwater in the location of the discharge,
numeric limits were selected so as to require t hat conditions of nuisance, adverse tastes and
odors, toxicity, or impact to sensitive agricultura l uses would not be expected to occur. For the
same reason, where incorporated drinking wate r MCLs are expressed as ranges, limits were
selected that represent no impac t on the municipal or domestic supply beneficial use. Unless
INFORMATION SHEET -5-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

natural background for a constituent proves to be higher, the groundwater quality limit
established in proposed Order is the most stringent of the values for the listed constituents.
Once the discharger provides information on background water quality and best practicable treatment or control, the groundwat er limits may need to be adjusted (see Reopener below).

Constituent Units Limit Beneficia
l Use Water Quality
Objective Criteria or Justification
Ammonia mg/L 1.5 MUN 1 Tastes and
Odors Odor Threshold 2
Boron mg/L 0.7 AGR 3 Chemical
Constituents Protect sensitive crops 4
 mg/L 1.0 MUN1 Toxicity Calif. Drinking Water
Notification Level based on toxicity
11
Chloride mg/L 106 AGR 3 Chemical
Constituents Sensitivity of certain
crops irrigated via sprinklers
4
Chloride (cont.) mg/L 142 AGR 3 Chemical
Constituents Chloride sensitivity on
certain crops 4
 mg/L 250 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Recommended
Secondary MCL 5
 mg/L 500 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Upper Secondary MCL 5
Iron mg/L 0.3 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Secondary MCL 6
Manganese mg/L 0.05 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Secondary MCL 6
Nitrate plus Nitrite as N mg/L 10 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Primary MCL 7
Nitrite as N mg/L 1 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Primary MCL 7
Sodium mg/L 69 AGR 3 Chemical
Constituents Sensitivity of certain
crops 4
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 4508 AGR 3 Chemical
Constituents Crop sensitivity 4
 mg/L 500 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Recommended
Secondary MCL 5
 mg/L 1,000 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Upper Secondary MCL 5
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml <2.2 MUN 1 Bacteria Basin Plan and non-
detect
Trihalomethanes ug/L 80 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents MCL 8
 Bromoform ug/L 4 MUN 1 Toxicity USEPA IRIS Cancer
Risk Level 9
 Bromodichloromethane ug/L 0.27 MUN 1 Toxicity Cal/EPA Cancer
Potency Factor 12
INFORMATION SHEET -6-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

Constituent Units Limit Beneficia
l Use Water Quality
Objective Criteria or Justification
 Chloroform ug/L 1.1 MUN 1 Toxicity Cal/EPA Cancer
Potency Factor 12
 Dibromochloromethane ug/L 0.37 MUN 1 Toxicity Cal/EPA Cancer
Potency Factor 12
pH pH Units 6.5 to 8.5 MUN 1 Chemical
Constituents Secondary MCL 10
 6.5 to 8.4 AGR 3 Chemical
Constituents Protect sensitive crops 4
1 Municipal and domestic supply
2 J.E. Amoore and E. Hautala, Odor as an Aid to Chemical Safety : Odor Thresholds Compared with
Threshold Limit Values and Volatilities for 214 Industrial Chemicals in Air and Water Dilution , Journal of
Applied Toxicology, Vol. 3, No. 6 (1983).
3 Agricultural supply 4 Ayers, R. S. and D. W. Westcot, Water Quality fo r Agriculture, Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations – Irrigation and Drainage P aper No. 29, Rev. 1, Rome (1985)
5 Title 22, California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 64449, Table 64449-B which is incorporated by
reference into the Basin Plan.
6 Title 22, CCR, Section 64449, Table 64449-A which is incorporated by reference into the Basin Plan.
7 Title 22, CCR, Section 64431, Table 64431-A which is incorporated by reference into the Basin Plan.
8 Title 22, CCR, Section 64439, which applies the narrative objective to fully protect the cited beneficial use.
9 USEPA Integrated Risk Informati on System, http://www.epa.gov/iris.
10 Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 143.3, which applies the narrative objective to fully protect
the cited beneficial use.
11 California Department of Health Services, Divi sion of Drinking Water and Environmental Management,
Drinking Water Notification Levels, http://www.dhs.ca.gov/ps/ddwem.

12 CAL/EPA Toxicity Criteria Database (O EHHA), http://www.oehha.or g/risk/ChemicalDB.

Domestic wastewater contains numerous di ssolved organic and inorganic constituents that
together comprise Total Dissolved Solids (TDS ). Each component constituent is not
individually critical to any beneficial use. Crit ical constituents are individually listed. The
cumulative impact from the other constituent s, along with the cumulative affect of the
constituents that are individually listed can be effectively controlled using TDS as a generic
indicator parameter. The relevant numerical wa ter quality limit for salinity is 450 mg/L, and is
used through Basin Plan procedures to apply the na rrative Chemical Constituents water quality
objective for the protection of agricultural suppl y, the beneficial use most sensitive to TDS.
This limit assumes no impact on sensitive agricul tural uses, consistent with the high quality of
expected natural background water quality in the ar ea of the discharge. Most individual salt
components can safely be assumed to be propor tionately low such that TDS can be an
effective indicator parameter in their regulation.
Not all TDS constituents pass through the treat ment process and soil profile in the same
manner or rate. Chloride tends to pass thr ough both rapidly to groundwater. As chloride
concentrations in most groundwaters in the r egion are much lower than in treated municipal
wastewater, chloride is a useful indicator paramet er for evaluating the extent to which effluent
reaches groundwater. Boron is another TDS cons tituent that may occur in wastewater in
concentrations greater than groundwater dependi ng on the source water and the extent
INFORMATION SHEET -7-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

residents use cleaning products containing boron. Ot her indicator constituents for monitoring
for groundwater degradation due to recharged effluent include total coliform bacteria, ammonia
and total nitrogen, and Total Trihalomethanes ( TTHMs), a by-product of chlorination.
 A Groundwater Limitation for chloroform is in cluded in this Order and is based on the Basin
Plan Toxicity objective and OEHHA Toxicity Crit eria for the protection of human health. The
Office of Environmental Health Hazard A ssessment (OEHHA) has published and maintains the
Toxicity Criteria Database, which contains cancer potency factors for chemicals, including
chloroform, that have been used as a basis for regulatory actions by the boards, departments
and offices within the California Environmental Protection Agency (Cal/EPA). The cancer
potency factor for oral exposure to chloroform in this database is 0.031 milligrams per kilogram
body weight per day (mg/kg-day). By applyi ng standard toxicologic assumptions used by
OEHHA, USEPA and other environmental agencies in evaluating health risks via drinking
water exposure (i.e., 70 kg body weight and 2 liter s per day water consumption), this cancer
potency factor is equivalent to a concentration in drinking water of 1.1 ug/L (ppb) at the 1-in-a-
million cancer risk level. The 1-in-a-million ri sk level is consistent with that used by the
California Department of Public Health (CDPH) to set de minimis risks from involuntary
exposure to carcinogens in drinking water in the development of drinking water MCLs and
Action Levels and by OEHHA to set negligible cancer risks in the development of Public Health Goals for drinking water. The one-in-a-million canc er risk level is also mandated by USEPA in
applying human health protective criteria c ontained in the National Toxics Rule and the
California Toxics Rule for priority toxic pollutants in California surface waters.
 Similarly, Groundwater Limitations for brom odichloromethane and dibromochloromethane are
included in this Order and are based on the Basi n Plan Toxicity objective and the Cal/EPA
cancer potency factor. Ther Groundwater Limita tion for bromoform included in this Order is
based on the Basin Plan Toxicity objective and U SEPA IRIS cancer risk level for the protection
of human health. The U.S. Environmental Pr otection Agency maintains the Integrated Risk
Information System (IRIS), which contains conc entrations of constituents in drinking water
associated with specified cancer risk levels. The Groundwater Limitations for bromoform,
bromodichloromethane, and dibrom ochloromethane were also based on the 1-in-a-million risk
level. Assumptions and rationale for selection of these limitations ar e identical to those
discussed above for chloroform.
Treatment Technology and Control

Given the character of domestic wastewater, secondary treatment technology is generally
sufficient to control degradation of groundwater from decomposable organic constituents.
Adding disinfection significantly reduces popul ations of pathogenic organisms, and reasonable
soil infiltration rates and unsaturated soils can r educe them further. Neither organics nor total
coliform organisms, the indicator parameter for pathogenic organisms, should be found in
groundwater in a well-designed, we ll-operated facility. The bacteria objective in the Basin
Plan, cited as a groundwater limit ation in the order, is equival ent to requiring that coliform
INFORMATION SHEET -8-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

organisms not be detected in groundwater. Becaus e all stormwater will not be prevented from
running off the land application areas disinfecti on of wastewater is required. Chlorine
disinfection of effluent causes formation of trihal omethanes, which are toxic priority pollutants.
Treatment to reduce these in wastewater generally has not bee n performed, and little is known
at this point on the typical impact on groundwater . Because the Discharger did not disinfect
wastewater previously, THMs are unlikely to ex ist in groundwater at the site. However, the
Discharger will begin disinfecting wastewater prior to storage or application at the off-site land
application areas. As a result, groundwater m onitoring of land application areas includes
THMs on the analyte list.
Domestic wastewater typically contains nitr ogen in concentrations greater than water quality
objectives, which vary according to the form of nitrogen. Groundwater degradation by nitrogen
can be controlled by an appropriate secondary tr eatment system, soil bacteria which naturally
remove some nitrogen, and growing crops that are harvested and removed from the land
application area. The effectiveness varies, but generally best practicable treatment and control
is able to control nitrogen degradation of groundwat er at a concentration well below the water
quality objectives. The proposed interim limit ation reflects water quality objectives.
 Dissolved solids can pass through the treatment pr ocess and soil profile; effective control of
such constituents relies primarily upon source cont rol and pretreatment measures. In the best
of circumstances, long-term land discharge of recycled water will degrade groundwater with
dissolved solids (as measured by TDS and EC). The proposed Order sets water quality objectives for the interim while site-specific , constituent-specific limits are developed in
conjunction with a BPTC evaluation of s ource control and pretreatment.
 Other constituents in domestic wastewater t hat may pass through the treatment process and
the soil profile, include recalcitrant organic compounds, radionuclides, and pharmaceuticals.
Hazardous compounds are not usually asso ciated with domestic wastewater and when
present are reduced in the discharge to incons equential concentrations through dilution and
treatment. It is inappropriate to allow degradati on of groundwater with such constituents, so
proposed limits are nondetectable concentrations. A discharge of recycled water that overloads soils with nutrients and organics can result in
anaerobic conditions in the soil profile, which in turn creates organic acids and decreases soil
pH. Under conditions of low soil pH (below 5), iron and manganese compounds in the soil can
solubilize and leach into groundwater. Overloadi ng the land application areas is preventable.
Though iron and manganese limits are set at the wa ter quality objective, groundwater pH is
expected to remain the same as background.
Title 27

Title 27, CCR, Section 20005 et seq. (“Title 27 ”), contains regulations to address certain
discharges to land. Title 27 establishes a wa ste classification system, specifies siting and
construction standards for containment of classi fied waste, requires extensive monitoring of
INFORMATION SHEET -9-
ORDER NO. R5-2007-0179 LOCKEFORD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

groundwater and the unsaturated zone for any i ndication of failure of containment, and
specifies closure and post-closure maintenance requirements. Gener ally, no degradation of
groundwater quality by any waste constituent is acceptable under Title 27 regulations.
 Discharges of domestic sewage and recycled wate r can be treated and controlled to a degree
that will not result in unreasonable degradation of groundwater. For this reason, they have
been conditionally exempted from Title 27. Di scharges of domestic sewage and treated
effluent that are regulated by WDRs and treat ment and storage facilitie s associated with the
WWTF are considered exempt from Title 27 under Section 20090(a), provided that the
discharges and facilities will not result in a viol ation of any water quality objective. As the
exemption specifically excludes the discharge to land of: 1) solid waste such as grit and
screenings that result from treat ment of domestic sewage, and 2) residual sludge that will not
be further treated at the WWTF, such discharges must comply with provisions of Title 27.
The discharge of recycled water and the operati on of treatment and/or storage facilities
associated with a wastewater tr eatment plant can be allowed wit hout requiring compliance with
Title 27 only if groundwater degradation complies with the Basin Plan, Resolution No. 68-16
(Antidegradation Policy), and does not viol ate any water quality objectives.

Proposed Order Terms and Conditions

Discharge Prohibitions and Specifications

The Order allows the flow rate to increase based on submittal, and approval by the Executive
Officer, of a Recycled Water Expansion Report which will document t he treatment system
capacity, and the availability of land application areas.
 The proposed Order’s

===PLANNED CHANGES===

