FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Nevada City and serves
a population of approximately 3,150. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 0.69 million gallons per day (MGD ).ORDER R5-2 022-0039
NPDES NO. CA0079901
CITY OF NEVADA CITY
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The wastewater treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, magnesium
hydroxide addition, influent flow equalization and emergency storage,
nitrification/denitrification, activated sludge, tertiary filters, ammonium sulfate
addition, chlorination, and dechlorination. The waste activated sludge is stored in an
aerated day tank, dewatered by a belt filter press, and hauled to Ostrom Road
Landfill in Wheatland, CA.
The screening consists of a Parkson HLS500 Hycor Helisieve automatic screen to
remove inorganics larger than 1/4", grit removal occurs in a manually scraped grit
channel. Magnesium hydroxide is added via a variable speed auger to maintain
optimal pH in the nitrification/denitrification activated sludge process. Influent flow
emergency storage or equalization is provided, as needed, in the original primary
clarifier no longer needed with the new treatment process. Advanced secondary
treatment is provided by two parallel nitrification/denitrification activated sludge
processes (two basins and two secondary clarifiers).
Tertiary filtration is provided by a disk filter and sand filter in series operation (filters
may also be run in parallel operation during high flow events or either filter may be
isolated for maintenance). Effluent disinfection is achieved using chlorine. The final
effluent is dechlorinated prior to discharge to Deer Creek. The annual average
discharge is 0.45 MGD with a maximum wet weather flow of 1.38 MGD.
Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site to a landfill. Secondary waste activated
sludge is stored in an aerated day tank (with emergency backup storage in the old
anaerobic digester) then dewatered in a filter press. Biosolids are collected in a truck
trailer before they are hauled off-site to a landfill. The facility produces approximately
17 tons every ten days. No biosolids are treated, stored, or discharged onsite.
Filtrate from the sludge dewatering process is returned to the activated sludge
process for treatment with the incoming waste stream.
The Discharger has a year to year contract with Robinson Enterprises to haul the
sludge. There is no contract with the Ostrom Road Landfill, but sludge is tested as
required by the state to meet the requirements.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger does not plan on expanding or making any significant changes to
the Facility during the next five years.
III.