Wastewater Treatment and Disposal System
4. The Maharishi Vedic School WWTF is on Assessors Parcel Number 013-050-18 and is owned
and operated by the Discharger. The facility is at 15205 State Highway 175 in Cobb, in Section 34, T12N, R8W, MDB&M, as shown on Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
5. The WWTF serves up to 200 people during the summer season and approximately 10 to 20
people during the off-season. The wastewater collection system consists of gravity sewer laterals serving approximately 70 structures ranging from small cabins to large congregation halls.
6. The wastewater treatment system consists of a gravity sewer collection system, primary settling
tank, aeration tank, activated biofilter, clarifier, secondary settling tank, sludge return, discharge pump, chlorine injection pump, chlorine contact tank and two evaporation/percolation ponds, as shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
7. Wastewater enters the treatment plant through a grit screen and flows into a 7,360-gallon
primary settling basin. Any secondary settlement sludge is recycled back into the primary settling basin. Following primary settling, wastewater flows through a weir into a 7,900-gallon aeration basin where it is pumped to the activated bio-filter tower. Effluent from the aeration tank flows into an 11,840-gallon secondary clarifier and then through a 2-inch flow meter prior to chlorine injection. Chlorine injection is accomplished using a solenoid metering pump.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -2-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
Wastewater then flows into a 1,000-gallon contact chamber prior to being discharged into one of
two evaporation/percolation ponds.
8. The two evaporation/percolation ponds are unlined and each measures approximately 50 feet by
50 feet with a total storage capacity of approximately 149,610 gallons (allowing for two feet of freeboard).
9. The RWD indicates that the sludge generated by the treatment system is recirculated through the
system and is biologically consumed. Grits and screenings are manually removed and disposed at a local landfill.
10. The Discharger has completed a water balance for the facility that demonstrates that there is
adequate storage and disposal capacity available for the design monthly average influent flow rate of 277,200 gallons per month (including infiltration and inflow). The water balance was prepared based on the design average daily flow, a pond capacity of 149,610 gallons, local evaporation rates, and a 100-year total precipitation rate.
11. Flow rates at the facility vary greatly depending on the population using the facility. Prior to the
installation of a flow meter, flows were estimated using lift station pump hour meter readings. Estimated flows have ranged from less than 1,440 gallons per day (gpd) to 9,360 gpd.
12. The Discharger has compiled the following effluent data from the WWTF. The results are given
below. It is noted that the Discharger has never analyzed the effluent for nitrogen, total dissolved solids, electrical conductivity, coliform, or standard minerals.
Parameter UnitsPump No. 1
Results1Pump No. 2
Results1Aeration Tank
Results1Chlorinator
Results1
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/L 123.2 123.1 20.7 18
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) mg/L 119 136.9 100.6 23.5
1 Average concentrations based on data collected from September 2002 to August 2003.
Enforcement History
13. On 15 December 2000, the Discharger was issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) for a raw sewage
overflow of several hundred gallons. The NOV required the Discharger to submit a technical
report detailing the cause and chronology of the overflow, actions taken to respond to and
mitigate the discharge, and a Contingency/Emergency Response Plan for preventing and
controlling future discharges. In addition, the NOV required the Discharger to submit a RWD that provided an overall assessment of the actual design and integrity of the collection, treatment,
and disposal systems.
14. After unsuccessful attempts by the Regional Board to obtain the technical report and the RWD,
the Lake County District Attorney filled an eight-count misdemeanor complaint in July 2001. On 15 July 2002, the Discharger was issued a Stipulated Judgment and Order of Judgment No.
CR 28993.01 by the Superior Court of the State of California. The Discharger was fined $27,000
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -3-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
and was required to comply with all corrective and/or mitigation measures and directives of the
Regional Board.
15. The Stipulated Judgment and Order of Judgment requires the Discharger to operate the
wastewater treatment system under the supervision of a person certified at a minimum of Grade II Operator or a Civil Engineer, and to modify the wastewater treatment plant no later than
1 November 2002. These modifications included: (a) installation of a baffle plate in front of the
clarifier feed line, (b) installation of a “U” shaped mixing pipe in the chlorination tank, (c)
installation of a semi-automatic liquid injection chlorination system with audible and status
indicator lights, (d) installation of a perman ent covering of all open areas of the treatment plant,
and (e) installation of an electrical control panel at the treatment plant that included both visible
and audible alarms for failure of lift pumps or sludge recirculation pumps.
16. The Stipulated Judgment and Order of Judgment also required the Discharger to submit to the
Regional Board the following reports: (a) an Emergency Contingency Operations Plan, (b) an Operations Maintenance Manual, (c) an Inflow/ Infiltration Assessment Technical Report, and (d)
monthly status reports. All technical reports were to be stamped an signed by a registered
professional.
17. Since the Stipulated Judgment and Order of Judgment was issued, the Discharger has submitted
the above required technical reports and has made the following improvements to the treatment
facility: (a) constructed an earthen berm above the east pump station to prevent surface storm
water runoff, (b) installed emergency bypass pumps at both pump stations, (c) installed new float
switches and a control panel, and two new pumps in the east pump station, (d) replaced the
discharge lines at the west and east pump stations, (e) installed an additional pump at the west pump station, (f) modified the west pump station control panel to allow the pump station to
operate in a duplex alternating mode, (g) installed a trash and grit screen at the entrance of the
treatment plant, (h) replaced two recycle pumps, (i) installed a flow meter in the effluent line
from the treatment plant, (j) installed a chlorine chemical feed pump, (k) installed a 1,000 gallon
polyethylene chlorine contact chamber, (l) installed a new sludge recirculation pump, (m) rebuilt the treatment plant control panel, (n) installed a security fence surrounding the treatment plant,
(o) installed plastic coving and fine mesh welded wire fabric over portions of the treatment plant
to prevent leaves and debris from falling into the system, (p) removed oaks trees near the
percolation ponds, (q) provided weekly flow measurements and monthly BOD and TSS testing,
(r) installed a new treatment plant discharge pump and control system, and (s) performed testing and repair of the gravity sewer collection lines. In addition, the Discharger has contracted a
Grade II Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator to operate the plant, and hired an engineering
firm to prepare required reports.
Sanitary Sewer System
18. The sanitary sewer collection system consists of a series of gravity sewer laterals and two lift
stations (west pump station and east pump station). These lift stations operate on a float switch
system with predetermined high and low levels. Each lift station operates in a duplex system
with two pumps that alternate each cycle. Both lift stations are automatically controlled and have visible and audible alarms, however, the audible alarms cannot be heard by the on-site staff.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -4-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
This Order requires the Discharger to install a remotely operated alarm system at each lift station
to notify the onsite staff in the event of a power loss or lift station malfunction.
19. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the wastewater treatment plant. Temporary storage and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks, etc.) may
be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not considered sanitary
sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within these temporary
storage/conveyance facilities.
20. At the facility, sanitary sewer overflows consist of domestic sewage. The chief causes of
sanitary sewer overflows include grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages, sewer line
flood damage, manhole structure failures, vandalism, pump station mechanical failures, power
outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and contractor caused
blockages.
21. Sanitary sewer overflows often contain high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic organisms,
toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and grease, and other
pollutants. Sanitary sewer overflows can cause temporary excedences of applicable water
quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic life, and impair the public recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface waters in the area.
22. The Discharger is expected to take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate, and
prevent discharges from its sanitary sewer collection system. The Discharger prepared a
Sanitary Sewer Overflow Prevention and Response Plan in January 2003, and is required to implement this plan.
Site Specific Conditions
23. The average 100-year annual precipitation for this area is approximately 21.3 inches, based on
rainfall data from the California Department of Water Resources Clearlake 4 Southeast Station
and adjusted for variations in annual rainfall between Clearlake and Cobb.
24. Evapotranspiration rates for the area range from 1.81 to 8.07 inches per month, with the highest
rate occurring in July.
25. All portions of the facility are outside the 100-year flood zone.26. The facility lies within the Lakeport Hydrologic Unit Area No. 513.55, as depicted on
interagency hydrologic maps prepared by the Department of Water Resources in August 1986.
27. According to the RWD, domestic water supply wells in the area show that the groundwater is
approximately 140 feet below ground surface (bgs). It is unknown whether this is the first
encountered groundwater or the level at which domestic wells are screened.
28. No information currently exists regarding the shallow groundwater underlying the
evaporation/percolation pond. In order to determine compliance with the Groundwater
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -5-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
Limitations section of this Order, the Discharger is required to install and sample groundwater
monitoring wells.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses and Regulatory Considerations
29. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth
Edition , (hereafter Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives,
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin, and incorporates
by reference plans and policies adopted by the State Board. Pursuant to Section 13263(a) of the
California Water Code, waste discharge requirements must implement the Basin Plan.
30. Surface water drainage from the WWTF is to an unnamed tributary to Kelsey Creek, which is a
tributary to Clear Lake.
31. The beneficial uses of Clear Lake are municipal and domestic supply; agricultural supply; water
contact recreation; noncontact water recreation; warm freshwater habitat, cold freshwater habitat; spawning, reproduction, and/or early development; and wildlife habitat.
32. The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater are municipal and domestic water supply,
agricultural supply, industrial service supply, and industrial process supply.
33. Federal regulations for storm water discharges were promulgated by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency on 16 November 1990 (40 CFR Parts 122, 123, and 124). The State Board adopted Order No. 97-03-DWQ (General Permit No. CAS000001) specifying waste discharge requirements for discharges of storm water associated with industrial activities, and requiring submittal of a Notice of Intent by all affected in dustrial dischargers. The Discharger has not yet
obtained coverage under General Permit No. CAS000001, and is required to do so.
34. The action to update WDRs for this existing facility is exempt from the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), in accordance Title 14, California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 15301.
35. Section 13267(b) of the California Water Code provides that: “In conducting an investigation
specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require that any person who has
discharged, discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge within its region, or any citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of discharging, or who proposes to discharge waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of the waters of the state within its region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the board requires. The burden, including costs of these reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the reports and the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to provide the reports.”
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -6-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
The technical reports required by this Order and the attached “Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. R5-2004-0085” are necessary to assure compliance with these waste discharge requirements. The Discharger operates the facility that discharges the wastes subject to this Order.
36. The California Department of Water Resources sets standards for the construction and
destruction of groundwater wells, as described in California Well Standards Bulletin 74-90
(June 1991) and Water Well Standards: State of California Bulletin 94-81 (December 1981).
These standards, and any more stringent standards adopted by the state or county pursuant to CWC Section 13801, apply to all monitoring wells.
37. The discharge is except from the requirements of Consolidated Regulations for Treatment,
Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste, as set forth in Title 27, CCR, Division 2,
Subdivision 1, Section 20005, et seq., (hereafter Title 27). The exemption pursuant to Section 20090(a), is based on the following:
a. The waste consists primarily of domestic sewage and treated effluent;
b. The waste discharge requirements are consistent with water quality objectives; and c. The treatment and storage facilities described herein are associated with a domestic
wastewater treatment facility.
38. Pursuant to California Water Code Section 13263(g), discharge is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
Public Notice
39. All the above and the supplemental information and details in the attached Information Sheet,
which is incorporated by reference herein, were considered in establishing the following conditions of discharge.
40. The Discharger and interested agencies and persons have been notified of the intent to prescribe
waste discharge requirements for this discharge, and they have been provided an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and recommendations.
41. All comments pertaining to the discharge were heard and considered in a public meeting.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 88-079 is rescinded and, pursuant to Sections 13263 and
13267 of the California Water Code, Maharishi Global Administration Through Natural Law, its
agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted hereunder, shall comply with the following:
[Note: Other prohibitions, conditions, definitions, and some methods of determining compliance are
contained in the attached "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements” dated 1 March 1991.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -7-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited. 3. Discharge of sewage from a sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment plant
is prohibited. Discharge of treated wastewater downstream of the treatment plant, other than at the approved evaporation/percolation ponds, is prohibited.
4. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardous’, as defined in Sections 2521(a) of Title 23, CCR,
Section 2510, et seq., (hereafter Chapter 15), or ‘designated’ as defined in Section 13173 of the California Water Code, is prohibited.
5. Surfacing of wastewater outside or downgradient of the evaporation/percolation ponds is
prohibited.
6. The discharge of any wastewater other than that from domestic sources or domestic equivalent
is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. The monthly average discharge from the treatment system shall not exceed 9,300 gpd.
2. Disposal of effluent shall be confined to the designated evaporation/percolation ponds as
defined in this Order.
3. No waste constituent shall be released or discharged, or placed where it will be released or
discharged, in a concentration or in a mass that causes violation of the Groundwater Limitations.
4. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall cause a nuisance or condition of pollution as
defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
5. Objectionable odor originating at the facility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of the
wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
6. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No.5, the dissolved oxygen
content in the upper zone (1 foot) of the evaporation/percolation pond shall not be less than 1.0 mg/L.
7. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as fences
and signs, or acceptable alternatives.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENT S ORDER NO. R5-2004-0085 -8-
MAHARISHI GLOBAL ADMINISTRATION THROUGH NATURAL LAW
MAHARISHI VEDIC SC HOOL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
8. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of wastewater
and optimize the quality of the discharge.
9. The wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal system shall be designed, constructed,
operated, and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
10. The facility shall have sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity to accommodate
allowable wastewater flow, design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary infiltration and inflow during the winter months. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns.
11. The freeboard in the evaporation/percolation ponds shall never be less than two feet as
measured vertically from the water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
12. On or about 15 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications No. 10 and No. 11.
13. The wastewater ponds shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the waste surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, and/or herbicides. c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
C.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

