wastewater treatment and disposal areas.

7. As a means of discerning compliance with Di scharge Specification No. 6, the dissolved oxygen
content in the upper zone (one foot) of the effluent storage tank(s) shall not be less than
1.0 mg/L.
8. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded or controlled through such means as fences
and signs, or acceptable alternatives.
 9. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of wastewater
and optimize the quality of the discharge.

10. The wastewater treatment, storage, and dis posal system shall be designed, constructed,
operated, and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.

11. The WWTF shall have sufficient treatment, st orage, and disposal cap acity to accommodate
allowable wastewater flow, design seasonal precip itation, and ancillary in filtration and inflow
during the winter months. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation using a return pe riod of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with
historical rainfall patterns.

12. The freeboard in the effluent storage tanks sh all never be less than two feet as measured
vertically from the wate r surface to the lowest point of overflow.

13. By 1 November each year, available storage tank capaci ty shall at least equal the volume
necessary to comply with Discha rge Specifications No. 11 and No. 12.

14. The Discharger’s highest priority shall be to tr eat and dispose of liquid wastes contained in the
Class II surface impoundment. The Class II su rface impoundment shall be emptied by
1 November of each year.

15. The Discharger shall implement the items de scribed in Spray Irrigation Management Plan
submitted as part of the RWD.

16. The effluent storage tanks shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. In
particular,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2006-0019 -17-
EL DORADO COUNTY
UNION MINE SEPTAGE/LEACHATE TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY


 a. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesti ng, and/or herbicides.

b. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris sh all not accumulate on the water surface.

C.