FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Mt. Shasta and serves a
population of approximately 3,223 . Wastewater influent is primarily domestic. The design
average dry weather (ADWF) flow capacity of the Facility is 0.8 MGD. The peak wet
weather flow (PWWF) capacity of the Facility is 2.1 MGD.
The Facility is located approximately 2 miles south of the City of Mt. Shasta on the west
side of Interstate 5 and adjacent to the Sacramento River immediately downstream of Box
Canyon Dam and Lake Siskiyou.
The Facility discharges treated wastewater at three separate discharge points: the
Sacramento River (surface water discharge), a leachfield on property owned by the USFS
(land disposal), and to the Siskiyou Lake Golf Resort, Inc. for irrigation (recycled water).
Surface water discharge during the summer period (15 June through 14 September ) is
prohibited.
Surface Water Discharge – Discharge Point 001
The outfall to the Sacramento River is located at the base of a steep canyon wall
located approximately 200 feet below the elevation of the Facility. Treated effluent is
discharged from the Facility through a gravity outfall pipeline to an energy dissipater,
then to the river through a multiport diffuser. During periods of effluent discharge to
surface water, with the exception of effluent discharges from 16 November through
14 April (winter period) where a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharge r is completing extensive upgrades to the Facility as part of their “State -
Mandated Wastewater Treatment and Outfall Project” (Project). The Pr oject began in
2013 to comply with requirements of previous NPDES permits, including more
stringent effluent limitations for BOD5, TSS, ammonia, copper, zinc, total coliform, and
pH.
The Project consists of upgrades at the Facility headworks, removing the lagoon
treatment and installing new clarifiers and activated sludge treatment capable of
nitrification and denitrification, new cloth filtration, and switching chlorine disinfection to
UV disinfection. Repairs at the outfall line into the Sacramento River include, but are
not limited to, replacement of the diffuser to ensure all ports are below the water
surface year-round.
The upgrades will increase the design ADWF from 0.8 MGD to 0.9 MGD and the
PWWF capacity from 2.1 MGD to 3.6 MGD.
The Discharger expects upgrades to be complete by Spring 2023 and once complete
and fully operational, the discharge is expected to comply with final effluent limitations
and land discharge specifications year-round, including BOD5, TSS, ammonia,
copper, zinc, pH, and total coliform.
III.