FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sew erage service for the City of Turlock and the community
service districts of Denair and Keyes, and receives up to 2 MGD of primary treated
effluent from the City of Ceres. The Facility serves a population of approximately 91,000.
The design daily average f low capacity of the Facility is 20 million gallons per day ( MGD ).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of screening, grit removal, primary
flotation, secondary treatment (activated sludge) for biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) reduction and nitrification /denitrification , secondary clarification, high rate
clarification with chemical addition, tertiary treatment via cloth disk filters, chlorine
disinfection and sodium bisulfite dechlorination. The wastewater facilities also
include a 37.2 million gallon clay-lined emergency storage basin, which allows for
the diversion and storage of primary effluent if necessary.
Solids handling consists of gravity belt thickener, anaerobic dig estion, sludge drying
beds and beneficial reuse of biosolids via land application to farmland .
The Discharger currently provides up to 2 MGD of recycled water for cooling
purposes to the Walnut Energy Center, a 250 megawatt power plant owned and
operated b y the TID . The Discharger also provides an average of 100,000 gallons
per day for irrigation purposes at the Pedretti Sports Complex. This Order regulates
the use of recycled water.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is currently in the process of installing an additional grit classifier,
constructing a biosolids laydown area, and upgrading the facility’s utility water pump
station. The Discharger will also modify its recycled water supply infrastructure to
provide dechlorinated recycled water to TID Upper Lateral 4. Prior to initiating
discharge, the outfall to TID’s Upper Lateral 4 must also be constructed.
CITY OF TURLOCK ORDER R5 -2021-0005
REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0078948


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9 III.