FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the Donner Summit Public Utility District,
the Norden and Soda Springs areas, the Sugar Bowl and Soda Springs ski resorts, the
Serene Lakes subdivision, Sierra Lakes County Water District, and CalTrans rest areas, ORDER R5-2 021-0023
NPDES CA0081621
DONNER SUMMIT PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 and serves a population of approximately 2,000. However, due to the ski resorts and
other seasonal tourism, the daily flows to the Facility can fluctuate greatly. The design
average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 0.52 MGD.
Disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is used to spray irrigate a portion of the
Soda Springs Mountain Resort. The Discharger has a 30-year lease agreement (signed in
2008) with the landowner, Boreal Ski Corporation. The lease encompasses 125 total
acres, of which approximately 53 acres are used for irrigation.
When conditions allow, the Discharger reclaims disinfected tertiary treated municipal
wastewater by sending the treated wastewater to the Soda Springs Mountain Resort for
snowmaking.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of influent flow equalization to control
seasonal surges, preliminary treatment, a conventional activated sludge process,
lime addition equipment to increase alkalinity for ammonia removal, two bioreactors
for biological nutrient removal (nitrification/denitrification), membrane filtration, and
an ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system.
Biosolids treatment consists of two aerobic digesters and sludge drying beds. Dried
biosolids are hauled to a landfill in Nevada for disposal. The Facility produces
approximately 1 71 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and
disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger is considering replacing or improving the existing lime-feed system ,
which would increase alkalinity, resulting in better pH control and more efficient
nitrogen removal.
III.