FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provi des sewerage service for the community of Red Bluff and serves a
population of approximately 14,710 . The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 2.5 MGD .
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of domestic wastewater treatment facilities and solids handling
facilities. The liquid stream process at the Facility include s influent screening via a
mechanical bar screen , aerated grit tank for grit removal , primary sedimentatio n,
activated slu dge treatment (with four aeration basins), secondary clarification,
filtration via a traveling bridge filter, chlorine (gas) disinfection, and dechlorination
with sodium bisulfite. Treated effluent is discharged to the Sacramento River through
a 30-inch diameter concrete coated steel pipe . The outfall does not contain a
diffuser.
Solids handling consist s of waste activated sludge (WAS) and primary sludge
stabilization through aerobic digestion, followed by storage of the stabilized biosolids
in 4.31 acres of sludge biosolids storage basins and a mixed biosolids equalization
basin. The biosolids storage basins consist of two one-foot clay -lined ponds that
provide storage capacity from 15 October to 15 April. The first pond (PND -002) is
61,150 square -feet (ft2) and the second pond (PND -003) is 62,400 ft2. The biosolids
equalization basin (PND -004) is a 64,070 ft2 lagoon with mechanical mixing and a
3.5 million -gallon volume , the equalization basin is also clay -lined . Only aerobically
digested biosolids are stored in the storage basins and equalization basin.
From the biosolids storage, the solids are moved to four sludge drying beds. The
drying beds do not have subsurface drains. The solids stay in the drying beds from
approximately 15 April t o 15 October of each year. Biosolids (Class B) are trucked
offsite for final disposal at a landfill. The facility produces approximately 1 50 dry
metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids is regulated by U.S . EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503. Grit from the clarifier is
sent to the grit pond (PND -001).
The Discharger also provides approximately 6.5 million gallons of treated effluent
per year for reclamation purposes. Reclaimed water is used intermittently for
landscape irrigation on State of California, Department of Transportation (Caltrans)
property near the Facility along the Interstate Highway 5 corridor (approximately
52 acres) . The intermittent average daily volume applied is 61,131 gallons per day.
Recycle d water use is currently regulated by Wastewater Reclamation Permit Order
No. 5 -01-262, which was issued to Caltrans and adopted by the Central Valley
Water Board on 7 December 2001 .
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Facility plans to install a new headworks bar screen, upgrade the SCADA
system, install an industrial battery back -up for the Facility, and complete a
secondary clarifier improvement design.
III.