wastewater treatment an d disposal facility’s performance,
including discussion of capacity issues, infiltration and inflow rates, nuisance
conditions, and forecast of flows anticipated in the following year (SPRRs E.4)
including the continuing submittal o f an Annual Inflow and I nfiltration report
summarizing mitigation measures completed during the past year and proposing
measures to be implemented in the coming year.
10. A summary of information on the disposal and/or composting of sludge/biosolids
during the calendar year. The summary should include production totals,
description of disposal methods, and results of any monitoring as required in
Section II.G .
11. Statement of when the Facility’s Operation and Maintenance Manual was last
reviewed for adequacy and a description of any changes made during the year .
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2021-0046 10
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILIT IES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
C. VOLUMETRIC REPORTING
Per State Water Resources Contro l Board’s Water Quality Control Policy
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/),
amended in December 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water are
required to report annually monthly volumes of influen t, wastewater produced, and
effluent, including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall submit an
annual report to the State Water Board by April 30 of each calendar year furnished with
the information detailed below. he Discharger must su bmit this annual report containing
monthly data in electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet GeoTracker
system (http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/). Required data shall be submitted to t he
GeoTracker database under a site -specific global identification number. Any data will be
made publicly accessible as machine readable datasets. The Discharger must report all
applicable items listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of influent wastewa ter collected and treated by the
wastewater treatment facility.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of
treatment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to each of the
following, specifying level of treatment:
a) Inland surface waters, specifying volume required to maintain minimum
instream flow.
b) Enclosed bays, estuaries and coastal lagoons, and ocean waters.
c) Natural systems, such as wetlands, wildlife habitats, and duck clubs, where
augmentatio n or restoration has occurred, and that are not part of a
wastewater treatment plant or water recycling treatment plant.
d) Underground injections wells, such as those classified by U.S. EPA’s
Underground Injection Control Program, excluding groundwater recharge via
subsurface application intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a coastal
aquifer with a seawater interface.
e) Land, where beneficial uses is not taking place, including evaporation or
percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding
pasture or fields with harvested crops.
4. Reuse. Monthly volume of recycled water distributed.
5. Reuse Categories . Annual volume of treated wastewater distributed for
beneficial use in compliance with California Code of Reg ulations, title 22 in each
of the use categories listed below:
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2021-0046 11
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILIT IES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
a) Agricultural irrigation: pasture or crop irrigation.
b) Landscape irrigation: irrigation of parks, greenbelts, and playgrounds, school
yards, athletic fields, cemeteries, residential landsca ping, common areas,
commercial landscaping, industrial landscaping, and freeway, highway, and
street landscaping.
c) Golf course irrigation: irrigation of golf courses, including water used to
maintain aesthetic impoundments within golf courses.
d) Commerc ial application: commercial facilities, business use (such as
laundries and office buildings), car washes, retail nurseries, and appurtenant
landscaping that is not separately metered.
e) Industrial application: manufacturing facilities, cooling towers, pr ocess water,
and appurtenant landscaping that is not separately metered.
f) Geothermal energy production: augmentation of geothermal fields.
g) Other non -potable uses: including but not limited to dust control, flushing
sewers, fire protection, fill statio ns, snow making, and recreational
impoundments.
h) Groundwater recharge: the planned use of recycled water for replenishment
of a groundwater basin or an aquifer that has been designated as a source of
water supply for a public water system. Includes surface or subsurface
application, except for seawater intrusion barrier use.
i) Seawater intrusion barrier: groundwater recharge via subsurface application
intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a coastal aquifer with a seawater
interface.
j) Reservoir water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into
a raw surface water reservoir used as a source of domestic drinking water
supply for a public water system, as defined in section 116275 of the Health
and Safety Code, or into a co nstructed system conveying water to such a
reservoir (Water Code section 13561).
k) Raw water augmentation: the planned placement of recycled water into a
system of pipelines or aqueducts that deliver raw water to a drinking water
treatment plant that prov ides water to a public water system as defined in
section 116275 of the Health and Safety Code (Water Code section 13561).
l) Other potable uses: both indirect and direct potable reuse other than for
groundwater recharge, seawater intrusion barrier, reserv oir water
augmentation, or raw water augmentation.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5-2021-0046 12
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JAMESTOWN WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILIT IES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of
this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial
enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take other
enforcement actions. Failure to comply with this Order may result in the assessment of
Administrative Civil Liability of up to $10,000 per violation, per day, depending on the viol ation,
pursuant to the Water Code, including sections 13268, 13350 and 13385. The Central Valley
Water Board reserves its right to take any enforcement actions authorized by law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may pet ition the State
Water Resources Control Board to review the action in accordance with California Water
Code section 13320 and California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 2050 and following.
The State Water Resources Control Board must receive the pe tition by 5:00 p.m., 30 days
after the date of this MRP , except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this Order falls
on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the State Water
Resources Control Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the law and
regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found on the internet
(http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices/petit ions/water_quality) or will be provided on
request .
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program 1 September 2021 .
I, PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the forgoing is a full, true and
correct copy of the Monitoring and Reporting Program R5 -2021-0046 issued by the California
Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 13 August 2021 .
PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2021-0046 16
JAMESTOWN SANITARY DISTRICT
JSD WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
IV. GLOSSARY
amsl Above mean sea level
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots over a 24-hour period .
Daily Once per day.
1/Week Once per week.
2/Week Twice per week on non -consecutive days .
1/Month Once per month.
2/Month Twice per month in non-consecutive weeks .
1/Quarter Once per quarter.
2/Year Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) in non-consecutive
quarters unless otherwise specified .
1/Year Once per year .
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per li ter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis shall include; alkalinity (as CaCO 3), bicarbonate (asCaCO 3),
boron, calcium, carbonate (as CaCO 3), chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrate as N, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate , total
dissolved solids , and verification that the analysis is complete (i.e.,
cation/anion balance) .