wastewater treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the
WWTF for emergency and routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and othe r monitoring instruments
and devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed
the calibrations (Standard Provision C.4).
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0026 10
CITY OF FARMERSVILLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
4. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard
Provisions E.4 and a figure depicting mont hly average discharge flow for the
previous three calendar years.
5. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period.
If violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective
actions taken and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with
this Order.
6. An evaluation of the facility’s annual average effluent EC (monitored at
EFF-001) to the Salinity Action Level of 700 µmhos/cm . If the facility’s
discharge exceeds the Salinity Action Level, the Discharger shall submit a
Salinity Action Level Report by 1 March of the year following the
exceedance of the Salinity Action Level as described in the WDRs Order .
7. Results of the Public Water Supply Monitoring as specified in
Section II.D. If multiple sources are used, the Discharger shall calculate the
flow-weighted average concentrations for each constituent monitored.
Results must include supporting calculations .
8. Copy of the Public Water System’s most recent Consumer Confidence
Report.
9. Tabulated summary of all monitoring data collected over the year.
10. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual,
sampling plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently
constructed and operated, and the dates when these d ocuments were last
reviewed for adequacy.
11. Annual production of total sludge/biosolids in dry tons or cubic yards (if
applicable) .
12. A description of the sludge/biosolids disposal methods (if applicable) , including
the following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one
method is used, including the percentage disposed of by each method.
a) For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the
Order number of WDRs that regulate it.
b) For land applicati on, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of
any WDRs that regulate it.
c) For incineration, include: the name and locations of the site where
incineration occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the
disposal method of as h, and the name and location of the facility receiving as
(if applicable).
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0026 11
CITY OF FARMERSVILLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
d) For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.
C. VOLUMETRIC REPORTING
Per State Water Resources Control Board’s Water Quality Control Policy
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/),
amended in Decem ber 2018, dischargers of treated wastewater and recycled water are
required to report annually monthly volumes of influent, wastewater produced, and
effluent, including treatment level and discharge type. The Discharger shall submit an
annual report to the State Water Board by April 30 of each calendar year furnished with
the information detailed below. The Discharger must submit this annual report
containing monthly data in electronic format via the State Water Board’s Internet
GeoTracker system (http://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/). Required data shall be
submitted to the GeoTracker database under a site -specific global identification number.
Any data will be made publicly accessible as machine readab le datasets. The
Discharger must report all applicable items listed below:
1. Influent. Monthly volume of influent wastewater collected and treated by the
wastewater treatment facility.
2. Production. Monthly volume of wastewater treated, specifying level of
treatment.
3. Discharge. Monthly volume of treated wastewater discharged to each of the
following, specifying level of treatment:
a) Inland surface waters, specifying volume required to maintain minimum
instream flow.
b) Enclosed bays, estuaries and coastal lagoons, and ocean waters.
c) Natural systems, such as wetlands, wildlife habitats, and duck clubs,
where augmentation or restoration has occurred, and that are not part of
a wastewater treatment plant or water recycling treatment pla nt.
d) Underground injections wells, such as those classified by U.S. EPA’s
Underground Injection Control Program, excluding groundwater recharge
via subsurface application intended to reduce seawater intrusion into a
coastal aquifer with a seawater interf ace.
e) Land, where beneficial uses is not taking place, including evaporation or
percolation ponds, overland flow, or spray irrigation disposal, excluding
pasture or fields with harvested crops.
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0026 12
CITY OF FARMERSVILLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
If, in the opinion of the Executive Officer, the Discharger fails to comply with the provisions of
this Order, the Executive Officer may refer this matter to the Attorney General for judicial
enforcement, may issue a complaint for administrative civil liability, or may take other
enforcement actions. Failure to com ply with this Order may result in the assessment of
Administrative Civil Liability of up to $10,000 per violation, per day, depending on the
violation, pursuant to the Water Code, including sections 13268, 13350 and 13385. The
Central Valley Water Board re serves its right to take any enforcement actions authorized by
law.
Any person aggrieved by this action of the Central Valley Water Board may petition the State
Water Resources Control Board to review the action in accordance with California Water
Code sec tion 13320 and California Code of Regulations, title 23, sections 2050 and following.
The State Water Resources Control Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m., 30 days
after the date of this MRP , except that if the thirtieth day following the date of this Order falls
on a Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the State Water
Resources Control Board by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the law and
regulations applicable to filing petitions may be found on the internet
(http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/public_notices/petitions/water_quality) or will be provided on
request .
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program starting 1 May 2022 .
I, PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the forgoing is a full, true and
correct copy of the Monitoring and Reporting Program R5 -2022-0026 issued by the California
Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley Region, on 21 April 2022.
PATRICK PULUPA, Executive Office
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R5 -2022-0026 13
CITY OF FARMERSVILLE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY
IV. GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CaCO 3 Calcium carbonate
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
TDS Total dissolved solids
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-hr Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight
aliquots over a 24 -hour period .
Daily Every day except weekends or holidays.
Twice Weekly Twice per week on non -consecutive days.
Weekly Once per week.
Twice Monthly Twice per month during non -consecutive weeks.
Monthly Once per calendar month.
Quarterly Once per calendar quarter.
Semiannually Once every six calendar months (i.e., two times per year) during non -
consecutive quarters .
Annua lly Once per year. Annual samples shall be collected in the third quarter
between July and September.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mg/kg Milligrams per kilogram
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
μg/L Micrograms per liter
μmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
gpd Gallons per day
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis shall include; alkalinity (as CaCO 3), bicarbonate (asCaCO 3),
boron, calcium, carbonate (as CaCO 3), chloride, iron, magnesium,
manganese, nitrate as N, phosphate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, and
verification that the analysis is complete (i.e., cation/anion balance).