Facility Information:
1. The names and general responsibilities of all persons in charge of wastewater
treatment and disposal, include telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the discharge for emergency and routine situations .
2. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other mo nitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (Standard Provision C.4).
3. A statement on whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling
plan, and contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated,
and the dates when these documents were last review for adequacy .
Biosolids/ Sludge Monitoring Reporting:

1. Annual production totals in dry tons or cubic yards.
2. A description of disposal methods, including location, and Order number of regulatory permit (if appropriate). If more than one method is used, include the percentage
disposed of by each method.
3. Include results o f monitoring specified on pages 4 and 5.
4. Include a demonstration that off -site disposal of biosolids is consistent with Title 27,
division 2 .
 The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program following start -up of the WWTF .

 Original signed by:
Ordered by:
 PAMELA C. CREEDON , Executive Officer

 (Date)
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5 -2016- 0057 -8-
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMPANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY


 GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be a flow-proportioned
composite consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected every day .
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at leas t twice per week on non -consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week .
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non- consecutive
weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per
year) dur ing non -consecutive mont hs
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless
otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April,
July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per
year). Unless otherwise specified or approved, sam ples shall be collected in
March and September .
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year . Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October .
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L Milliliters [of solids] per liter
µg/L Micrograms per liter
µmhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity (as CaCo3) Carbonate (as CaCO3) Magnesium Sodium
Bicarbonate (as CaCO3) Chloride Manganese Sulfate
Boron Hardness Nitrate TDS
Calcium Iron Potassium
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of
cation/anion balance.

INFORMATION SHEET

ORDER NO. R5 -2016 -0057
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMPANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY

 Background
The Tesoro Viejo Mas ter Mutual Water Company (Company ) in conjunc tion with Tesoro Viejo,
Inc. submitted a Report of Wast e Discharge (RWD), dated 19 August 2015, and applied for
Waste Discharge Requirements (W DRs) to discharge tertiary disinfected wastewater from a new
wastewater treatment facility to be constructed for the proposed Tesoro Viejo Master Planned
Community (Development ).

The Development is a proposed mixed use master -planned community in southeastern Madera
County consisting primarily of residential units with some minor areas designated for
institutional, recreational, commercial, and light industrial uses .

As described in the RWD, Tesoro Viejo, Inc. , the pro ject developer, will undertake development
obligations for the Development including construction of the wet utilities related to the sewer
collection system and proposed wastewater treatment fac ilities. Tesoro Viejo, Inc., shall
transfer ownership and operation of these facilities to the Tesoro Viejo Master Mutual Water
Company at the time of start -up.

The Tesoro Viejo Master Mutual Water Company (hereafter Discharger ), created in 2006, will be
the agency responsible for providing potable water along wit h wastewater collection, treatment,
and disposal ser vices for the Development , and will have a long -term contractual relationship
with Tesoro Viejo, Inc. , to provide water and sewer service to the new development as it is built .
 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
The w astewater treatment facility (WWTF) for the proposed D evelopment will be constructed in
phases to allow for expansion as the Development grows . The WWTF will provide tertiary
treatment with ultraviolet (UV) disinfection and pr oduce Title 22 recycled water for unrestricted
reuse. These WDRs will regulate the WWTF for the first three phases identified as Phase A,
Phase B, and Phase 1. Based on projections, the Phase I WWTF will meet wastew ater
treatment demands for the D evelopm ent till 2022, which will be comprised of approximately
1,800 residential units, and some commercial and public facilities .
 According to the RWD, the WWTF will include an influent pump station and head works, flow equalization, fine screening, advanced biological treatment , an anoxic tank to provide for
nitrogen reduction, UV disinfection, solids handling, and recycled water and emergency storage.
For the first two phases, Phase A and Phase B, the WWTF will consist of membrane bioreactor
(MBR) package plants with average maximum dry weather design flows of 0.25 million gallons
per day (mgd) and 0.5 mgd, respectively. When flows approach the capacity for the Phase B
WWTF , construction will begin on Phase I, which will consist of a permanent Membrane
Bioreactor (MBR) system with an anoxic tank, swing air tank, aerobic tank, post -anoxic tank, and
a 0.4 million gallon flow equalization tank.
INFORM ATION SHEET , ORDER NO. R5 -2016- 0057 - 2-
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMPANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY


 After treatment and disinfection, the effluent will be discharged to recycled water storage ponds
prior to reuse. The ponds will incorporate a 50 mil HDPE liner. For Phase A and Phase B recycled water storage will be provided by one pond with a des igned capacity of 1.56 million
gallons. There will also be a second lined pond with a capacity of 0.84 million gallons used for emergency storage of recycled water that does not meet Title 22 requirements (off -spec
recycled water). After construction of the Phase 1 wastewater treatment system, all off -spec
recycled water will be returned to the headworks of the WWTF for furt her treatment and the
emergency storage pond will be used for storage of recycled water bringing the total available storage capacity to 2.4 million gallons.
 The disinfected tertiary treated effluent will be used for irrigation of crops and landscaping w ithin
the Development and on land currently owned by Rio Mesa Holding s, LLC. Together these
properties make up the “Use Areas” for recycled water. The r ecycled water will be applied at
agronomic r ates. According to the RWD, for Phase A the Development w ill have approximately
184 acres of land available for irrigation with recycled water; for Phase B the Development will
have approximately 240 acres of land available for irrigation with recycled water; and for Phase 1 the Development will have approximately 463 acres of land available for irrigation with recycled water.
 Because this will be a new WWTF , there is no existing effluent data availabl e. Anticipated
effluent quali ty for the WWTF based on the proposed treatment process and similar existing
WWTFs is presented below:

Parameter/Constituent Units Effluent Quality
pH pH units 6.5 – 8.5
Electrical Conductivity (EC) umhos/cm < 600
Ammonia as nitrogen mg/L <1
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/L < 10
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) mg/L < 10
Chloride mg/L < 40
Sodium mg/L < 60
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L < 400
Total Nitrogen (TN) mg/L <10
 Solids
Wast ed sludge from the treatment process will be stored in sludge holding tank(s), and hauled
off-site for further treatment and disposal at another WWTF in the area. During construction of
Phase 1, an integrated sludge storage tank will be included in the main structure for the treatment system .

INFORM ATION SHEET , ORDER NO. R5 -2016- 0057 - 3-
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMPANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY


 Source Water : Sourc e water for the D evelopment will be primarily surface water from the San
Joaquin River, with an EC of about 20 to 145 umhos/cm, TDS of about 37 mg/L, and nitrate as
nitrogen ( NO 3-N) of <1 mg/L.

Groundwater Conditions
According to the Department of Water Resources Groundwater Elevation Maps (Spring 2010) first encountered groundwater in the vicinity of the proposed development occurs at about
200 feet below ground surface (bgs). Regional flow in the area is to the southwest away from
the San Joaquin River .
 The RWD describes a groundwater investigation to evaluate groundwater depth, flow direction,
and water quality in the vicinity of the Development and proposed WWTF and recycle Use
Areas. The groundwater investigation identified a shallow perched zone at depths ranging from about 12 to 40 feet bgs in the northern portion of the Development likely due to recharge from Little Table Mountain. Groundwater flow direction in this shallow zone is to the south, slightly different from the deeper regional aquifer. Groundwater elev ation in this shallow zone is higher
in the northern portion of the Development, but appears to drop and likely merges with deeper
groundwater as the distance increases down- gradient of Little Table Mountain.
 As part of this investigation, groundwater s amples were collected from several wells installed
within the proposed Development boundaries . Based on the groundwater inv estigation,
groundwater beneath the Development is of good quality. Shallow groundwater in the northern
half of the site is of slightly poor er quality with an average EC of about 557 umhos/cm, TDS of
about 332 mg/L, and nitrate as nitrogen of about 8.5 mg/L. However, the WWTF and recycled
Use Areas on the southern half of the Development , where this shallow perched zone was not
encountered, was of better quality with an EC of about 280 umhos/cm, TDS of about 213 mg/L,
and nitrate as nitrogen of about 6.4 mg/L.
 With the proposed treatment and nitrification/denitrification to reduce nitrogen concentrations in the effluent to <10 mg/L, storage of wastewater in lined ponds and application at agronomic
rates the discharge from the proposed WW TF is not expected to significantly degrade
groundwater quality . Therefore, groundwater monitoring is not being required at this time.
 Basin P lan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The WWTF and recycled Use A reas lie within the Berenda Hydrologic Area (545.3) of the San
Joaquin Valley Floor Hydraulic U nit. Local drainage is to the San Joaquin River between
Friant Dam and the Mendot a Pool.

The Water Quality Control Plan f or the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins, Fourth
Edition , revised April 2016 (Basin Plan) designates beneficial uses, establishes numerical and
narrative water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and policies for protecting all
waters of the basin, and incor porates by reference plans and p olicies of the State Water Board.
Beneficial uses often determine the water quality objectives that apply to a water body. The