4. Reason for Action
The Discharger filed a Repor t of Waste Discharge on June 1, 2015, requesting that
the WDRs for the Facility be revised to in corporate proposed Facility and operational
modifications. The two modifications include:

a. Installing a mechanical screening system between the influent pump station and
the oxidation ditch treatment system.
b. Re-designate the existing effluent r euse storage pond identif ied in Board Order
No. R6T-2003-0018, as a seventh infiltrati on basin for wastewater disposal.
 Neither of the proposed modifications will change the wastewat er discharge rate
authorized by Board Order No. R6T-2003-0018.


Herlong Public Utility District -2 - Board Order No. R6T-2016-0036
Lassen County WDID No. 6A180208004
The Water Board is also incorporating a new

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance, does not stay any of the WDRs conditions.

8. Property Rights

 The WDRs do not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges,
nor does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any infringement of federal, state or local laws or regulations.
STANDARD PROVISIONS SEPTEMBER 1, 1994
 - 3 –

9. Enforcement
 The California Water Code provides for civil li ability and criminal penalties for violations
or threatened violations of the WDRs including imposition of civil liability or referral to
the Attorney General.

10. Availability
 A copy of the WDRs shall be kept and maintained by the Discharger and be available at
all times to operating personnel.

11. Severability
 Provisions of the WDRs are severable. If any provision of the requirements is found
invalid, the remainder of the requirements shall not be affected.

12. Public Access
 General public access shall be effectively excluded from treatment and disposal
facilities.

13. Transfers
 Providing there is no material change in the operation of the facility, this Order may be
transferred to a new owner or operation. The owner/operator must request the transfer in writing and receiv e written approval from the Regi onal Board’s Ex ecutive Officer.

14. Definitions
 a. "Surface waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, live
streams, either perennial or ephemeral, which flow in natural or artificial water
courses and natural lakes and artificial impoundments of waters. "Surface
waters" does not include artificial water courses or impoundments used
exclusively for wastewater disposal.
 b. "Ground waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, all
subsurface waters being above atmospheric pressure and the capillary fringe of
these waters.

15. Storm Protection

 All facilities used for collection, transport, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste shall
be adequately protected against overflow, washout, inundation, structural damage or a significant reduction in efficiency resulting from a storm or flood having a recurrence
interval of once in 100 years.



This page is intentionally left blank.

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
LAHONTAN REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING PR OGRAM NO. R6T-2016-0036
WDID NO. 6A180208004

FOR

HERLONG PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY

________________________ _____Lassen County___ ________________________

I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

A. Effective Date
This monitoring and reporting program (MR P) is being required pursuant to
California Water Code section 13267 and is effective on the date as specified by
the Water Board’s Executive Officer.

B. Overview of Reports Required
The Discharger must provide four quar terly reports and one annual report. The
monitoring period covered for each repor t and the dates the reports are due are
provided respectively in section II and se ction III, below. Each report must
provide information on Facility monitoring, groundwater monitoring, sludge
disposal, and other required information as specified herein.

C. Certified Cover Letter
The Discharger must use Attachment 1 as a cover letter and certification, or a
cover letter containing the same information, for all reports provided to the Water
Board in connection with this MRP.

D. Paperless Submission of R eports and Written Communications
The Discharger must provide all wri tten communication and monitoring reports
via e-mail at the following address: lahontan@waterboards.ca.gov . If the report
or material is in excess of 50 MB, t hat information must be provided on a disk
(CD or DVD). The reports or materials should be in a Portable Document Format
(PDF) package format.

E. Groundwater Data to be Uplo aded to Geotracker Database
The groundwater sample data for the quar terly monitoring reports must be
uploaded directly to the Geotracker dat abase maintained by the Water Board.
Contact Water Board staff for deta ils and compliance assistance.

Herlong Public Utility District -2- MRP No. R6T-2016-0036
Lassen County WDID No. 6A180208004
F. General Provisions
The Discharger must comply with the “General Provisions for Monitoring and
Reporting” dated September 1, 1994, which is made part of this Monitoring and
Reporting Program as Attachment 2.

G. Sampling and Analysis Plan
By December 30, 2016 , the Discharger must provide to the Water Board a
Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP) pursuant to provision No. 1.d, of the General
Provisions for Monitoring and Reporting. Also, a copy of the SAP must be
maintained at the Facility and available for inspection. The SAP must include detailed descriptions, procedur es and techniques for:
 1. Sample collection, sample locations, sampling equipment, and
decontamination of sampling equipment;
2. Groundwater well purging methods and sample collection methods consistent
with either the methods specified in se ction II.D., below, or consistent with the
Guidance Manual for Groundwater In vestigations, revised 2008, by CalEPA
Department of Toxic Substances C ontrol or consistent with USEPA’s
Groundwater Sampling Guidelines for Superfund and RCRA Project Managers of 2002, or subsequent revisions;
3. Sample preservation and shipment; 4. Analytical methods and procedures to be used; 5. Chain of custody and control of samples; 6. Quality assurance/qua lity control (QA/QC) for sample collection;
7. Calibrating any onsite equipment (e.g., pH meter, electrical conductivity
meter), including frequency of calibration; and
8. Making any onsite measurements.

II. MONITORING AND REPO RTING REQUIREMENTS

The Discharger must provide four quarte rly monitoring reports per year on the
following re-occurring dates, covering the time periods stated below. The information that must be provided to complete the report is specified in items A - E,
below.
 Reporting Period Monitoring Period Due Date
1st Quarter January 1- March 31 May 1
2nd Quarter April 1 - June 30 August 1
3rd Quarter July 1 - September 30 November 1
4th Quarter October 1 - December 31 February 1

Herlong Public Utility District -3- MRP No. R6T-2016-0036
Lassen County WDID No. 6A180208004
A. General Facility Monitoring Information
The following inspection and other acti vity must be documented by the
Discharger on a monthly basis, and the in formation must be reported in each
quarterly report. 1. Monthly visual inspection of the Facili ty for spills or leaks at the treatment
system area and the disposal area.
2. Any maintenance, repairs, or operati onal problems that occur during the
quarterly reporting period.
3. A description of any corrective acti on(s) taken to address the maintenance,
repairs or operational problem(s) duri ng the quarter, when the actions were
taken, and a schedule for completing any incomplete corrective actions identified.
B. Flow Monitoring
The Discharger must monitor and report the total influent flow to the wastewater
treatment and disposal system per month (in gallons).

C. Effluent Monitoring
 The Discharger must monitor the qualit y of the effluent discharged to the
authorized disposal site. The Dischar ger must monitor for the following
parameters in the discharge at th e specified frequency.