Project description analyzed in the Final EIR
included a leak detection system consis ting of drainage sa nd and perforated
piping underneath the liner to detect leakage. This alternative was evaluated in
the report of waste discharge and determined to be infeasible by the Discharger
based on technical and cost considerations. The leak detection system proposed
in the report of waste discharge instead has two primary means to detect pond
leakage: (1) daily water balance measurements and calculations (over an entire
month) will be used to determine if there is any unexplained water loss and (2) three ground water monitoring wells installed around the Facility will be used to
monitor changes in ground water quality that may be attributable to leakage from
an evaporation pond.

The water balance measurements described above, and in the report of waste discharge, are deemed insufficiently sensitive and infeasible to detect other than
grossly excessive leakage that would violate applicable waste discharge
prohibitions. However, the proposed pond liner technology is capable of meeting
the applicable requirements and prohibitions, essentially limiting leakage rates to
very low rates of molecular diffusion, provided the liners are properly constructed
and protected from damage by external elements such as animals, vandals,
wind, or slope failure that could puncture the liner or damage seam seals
between liner panels during and following construction. The selected liner
material is resistant to damage by ultraviolet (UV) sunlight, and therefore a soil
Attachment D -8-

cover to provide additional UV protection is not included in the final design or
deemed necessary.

To mitigate potentially significant effects on water quality due to the potential for
liner leakage, the Discharger’s report of waste discharge has a construction
quality assurance (CQA) plan to ensure that the Facility will be properly constructed. The Water Board will evaluate compliance with the CQA plan, and
will require the Discharger to certify, thr ough its CQA officer, that the ponds are
constructed in accordance with the CQA pl an. Under the provisions of this Water
Board Order, prior to initiating the discharge of wastewater to the Facility the
Discharger must demonstrate that the Facility was constructed in accordance
with the CQA plan to the satisfaction of the Water Board Executive Officer. The
Water Board finds this is a feasible, cost-effective means to control and prevent potentially significant effects on water quality from pond leakage, or infiltration of
ground water into the ponds due to potential increases in the natural ground
water levels.
As described in the Final EIR, the Discharger has proposed, and this Board
Order requires, installation of ground water monitoring wells and ground water
testing to monitor the quality and conditions of the ground water beneath the
Facility prior to Facility operation, and quarterly after the Facility is placed into
service. Inclusion of the monitoring wells is a means to determine if the liner is continuing to prevent significant effect s on water quality over time due to
impairment of the pond liners. Under the terms of this Board Order, if there is a
detected increase in any monitored ground water constituent then the Discharger
is required to determine the nature and cause of the increase. If the increase is
due to the Facility (evaporation ponds) the Discharger is required to propose
corrective measures to achieve compliance with requirements.

Potential impacts to water quality due to the infiltration of wastewater to ground
waters, and subsequent contamination of Eagle Lake, are reduced to insignificant levels with inclusion of the above-cited mitigation and mitigation
monitoring measures.

D 4. FINAL EIR TEXT FOR SECTION 4.6.4 (italics) AND WATER BOARD ANALYSIS

 Impact Treatment Sites: SP-1 Site SP-6 Site 6 SP-13 Site
 Collection and Treatment Systems: Alternative 1 Alternative 2

4.6.4 Operation of the treatment pond complex could potentially result in co-mingling of wastewaters with Eagle Lake surface waters during a
100-year precipitation event if infl ows to the ponds overtop the pond
berms. This would be a less than significant impact.

 Conceptual design criteria for the treatment pond complex used large 8.7-
acre pond areas sized to protect against a 100-year precipitation event. Ponds were designed with an additional three feet of freeboard to
accommodate a 100-year precipitation event. Ponds were designed for
an average depth of 5.5 feet from the top of the berm, 2.5 feet of which
would be occupied by wastewater (at its highest level) and three
Attachment D -9-

additional feet of protective freeboard. Therefore, commingling of pond
wastewaters with Eagle Lake surface waters as a consequence of berm
overtopping is considered a less than significant impact.

Water Board Analysis and Findings for section 4.6.4

Wastewater overflows during a 100-year precipitation event are considered a potentially significant impact if there is a reasonable likelihood they may occur.
As stated in the report of waste discharge for the Facility, the selected location for the ponds is approximately 2000 feet west of Eagle Lake with pond bottom
elevations ranging from 5136 feet above mean sea level (msl) to 5140 feet above MSL, and thus the pond bottoms will be, at least, 18.5 feet above the projected
maximum surface elevation of Eagle Lake (5117.5 feet above msl). Additionally,
the report of waste discharge included an estimate of annual rainfall based on a
100-year return cycle and determined the 1 00-year precipitation total to be 31.6
inches. Based on descriptions of the Fa cility operation in the report of waste
discharge, at least two feet of pond freeboard will be maintained at all times, after
accounting for annual precipitation inputs, and will provide overflow protection
from a 100-year rain cycle in any year. The Water Board thus has no reasonable basis to conclude that significant effe cts will occur from mixing of wastewater
effluent with Eagle Lake surface waters due to reasonably foreseeable
precipitation events, and no additional mitigation is required. Pursuant to Waste
Discharge Requirements, the Discharger will report freeboard measurements
and precipitation totals to the Water Board on a quarterly basis.

D.4 Water Board Analysis and Finding s Concerning Potentially Significant
Water Quality Effects Associated with Changes to the Project Certified in
the Final EIR

The Project, as certified in the Final EIR, included 34.8 acres of evaporation
ponds constructed to contain water at a depth of 2.6 feet or less. The evaporation ponds as proposed in the report of waste discharge total 20.2 acres with a depth
of water up to 5.0 feet, and two feet of freeboard. Concurrent with reducing the
size of the proposed wastewater ponds, the Discharger proposed an evaporation
enhancement system for Pond 1. The ch anges to the Project will increase the
storage volume (per unit area) of the evaporation ponds and head loading on the liner (thus increasing the rate of any leakage due to liner impairment) while
reducing overall surface area available for evaporation.

The report of waste discharge indicates total evaporation rates will remain similar to those evaluated in the Final EIR by enhancing the evaporation rate by
spraying effluent above one of the evaporation ponds. The reductions in
evaporative surface area and the pr oposed evaporation enhancement system
were not analyzed in the Final EIR. If the wastewater is not eliminated from the
ponds at the projected rates, there is potential for the ponds to become
overloaded and spill partially-treated and concentrated wastewater to the
environment. Because wastewater spills would violate waste discharge
requirements and discharge prohibitions this would be considered a potentially
significant effect.
Attachment D -10-


Because the evaporat ion enhancement system involves spraying partially-treated
undisinfected wastewater into the air, potentially significant effects on the
environment that are not within the Water Board’s authority or expertise may
occur unless mitigation is incorporated. The system will have a reduced capacity
from that in the EIR until the enhanced evaporation system has been reviewed
and approved in an addendum to the EIR or separate document prepared by the
Lead Agency to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act.


D.5 Potential Impacts Not Subject to Water Board Discretionary Approval

 The Water Board has reviewed the Final EIR for those project activities which are
within the agency’s area of expertise, are required to be carried out or approved
by the agency, or will be subject to the exercise of powers by the agency. The
EIR identifies other potentially significant impacts and significant impacts that are
not related to water quality. The Water Board is not responsible for implementing
the mitigation measures identified in the EIR or additional mitigation measures
other parties have deemed necessary.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

