Facility Description.	 The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater treatment 
plant. The treatment system consists of screening, grit removal, extended aeration 
sludge process.ing, secondary clarification, disinfection and dechlorination processes. 
The treatment system also includes two emergency stor~ge ponds that can receive 
. wastewater from the influent distribution box or from the chlorine contact chamber box. 
The two emergency storage ponds are shown in Attachment C1 and C2 and may be 
used during system problems to store wastewater and return the wastewater back into 
the head works. The wastewater is discharged from a polishing wetland to an irrigation 
channel that crosses three separate ranches not under the ownership or control of the 
Discharger. 
SUSANVILLE SANITARY DISTRICT -4-, ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0022 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102695 -'. . 
Each ranch flood irrigates using water from both the wastewater irrigation channel and 
from Jensen Slough. The Jensen Slough is considered a water of the United States, 
and a tributary to the Susan River. Tail water from irrigation practice, which may be a 
.mixture of water from Jensen slough and treated effluent, is returned to Jensen Slough 
for use at the next ranch. At the third property the wastewater combined with Jensen 
slough water is used for irrigation or the combined flow goes to the Susan River, which 
is where the Jensen Slough terminates. Attachment B provides a map of the area 
around the Facility. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the Facility. 
C.	 Legal Authorities. This Order is issued pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean 
Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (USEPA) and chapter 5.5, division 7 of the California Water Code 
(commencing with section 13370). It shall serve, as a NPDES permit for point source 
discharges from this facility to surface waters. This Order also serves as Waste 
Discharge Requirements (WDRs) pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the Water 
Code (commencing with section 13260). 
D.	 Background and Rationale for Requirements. The Lahontan Water Board 
developed the requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the 
application, through monitoring and reporting programs, and other available information. 
The Fact Sheet (Attachment F), which contains background information and rationale 
for Order requirements, is hereby incorporated into this Order and constitutes part of the 
Findings for this Order. Attachment A through I are also incorporated into this Order. 
E.	 California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Under Water Code section 13389, 
this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of CEQA, Public 
Resources Code sections 21100-21177. 
F.	 Technology-Based Effluent Limitations ••Section 301 (b) of the CWA and 
implementing USEPA permit regulations at section 122.44, title 40 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations1, require that permits include conditions meeting applicable 
technology-based requirements at a minimum, and any more stringent effluent 
limitations necessary to meet applicable water quality standards. The discharge 
authorized by this Order must meet minimum federal technology-based requirements 
based on Secondary Treatment Standards at Part 133. A detailed discussion of the 
technology-based effluent limitations development is included in the Fact Sheet. 
G. Water Quality-Based Effluent Limitations. Section 301 (b) of the CWA and section 
122.44(d) require that permits include limitations more stringent than applicable federal 
technology-based requirements where necessary to achieve applict3ble water quality 
standards. 
Section 122.44(d)(1)(i) mandates that permits include effluent limitations for all 
pollutants that are or may be discharged at levels that have the reasonable potential to 
cause or contribute to an exceedance of a water quality standard, including numeric and 
narrative objectives within a standard. Where reasonable potential has been 
established for a pollutant, but there is no numeric criterion or objective for the pollutant, 
1 All further statutory references are to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations unless otherwise indicated. 
SUSANVILLE SANITARY DISTRICT -5- ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0022 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102695 
water quality-based effluent limitations (WQBELs) must be established using: (1) 
USEPA criteria guidance under CWA section 304(a), supplemented where necessary 
by other relevant information; (2) an indicator parameter for the pollutant of concern; or 
(3) a calculated numeric water quality criterion, such as a proposed state criterion or 
policy interpreting the state's narrative criterion, supplemented with other relevant 
information, as provided in section 122.44(d)(1)(vi). 
H.	 Water Quality Control Plans. The Lahontan Water Board adopted a Water Quality 
Control Plan for the Lahontan Region on March 31, 1995 that designates beneficial 
uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and 
policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. The 
Basin Plan on page 2-3 states that the beneficial uses of any specifically identified water 
body generally apply to its tributary streams. The Basin Plan does not specifically 
identify beneficial uses for the Jensen Slough, but does identify present and potential 
uses for the Susan River, to which the Jensen Slough, is tributary. Because the 
Jensen Slough is tributary to the Susan River, this permit continues to use the water 
quality objectives for the Susan River at Litchfield based on the Basin Plan's '''tributary 
rule,' which provides that water quality standards for specific waterbodies apply 
upstream to tributaries for which no site-specific standards have been adopted." 
These beneficial uses are: municipal and domestic supply, agricultural supply, industrial 
supply, ground water recharge, freshwater replenishment, navigation, water-contact 
recreation, non-contact water recreation, commercial and sport fishing, warm freshwater 
habitat, cold freshwater habitat, wildlife habitat, migration of aquatic organisms, 
spawning, reproduction and development. In addition, the Basin Plan implements State 
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Resolution No. 88-63, which 
established state policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered 
suitable' or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply. Thus, as discussed in 
detail in the Fact Sheet, beneficial uses applicable to the Jensen Slough are as follows: 
Table 5. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses 
Discharge Point