Existing Facility:
The existing Facility will continue to be operated while upgrades are being
completed. The existing Facility was designed to treat wastes using mechanical
aeration followed by detention in oxidation ponds. Following treatment,
wastewater is stored in ponds prior to being chlorinated and discharged to fodder
crops via spray irrigation equipment. The treatment facilities are designed for an
average flow rate of 1.4 million gallons per day (MGD), a peak daily flow of 2.1
million gallons, and a peak hourly flow rate of 4.2 MGD.
Grit removal, grinding, and screening are accomplished in the Facility
headworks. The incoming waste is then pumped to parallel aeration ponds (two
ponds, 11.35 million gallons each, floating aerators), and sedimentation ponds
(two ponds, 5.4 million gallons each, nine feet deep). Following sedimentation,
the treated effluent is stored in five storage ponds that predate the existing
Facility (designated as storage ponds 1 through 5) and two storage ponds
constructed in 1995 (designated as storage ponds 6 and 7), with a combined
storage volume of 720 acre-feet. Wastewater is retained in storage ponds 1
through 7 over the winter months and used for fodder crop irrigation during the
growing season.
As described above, two aeration ponds, two aerated sedimentation ponds and
two additional storage ponds were built in association with the 1995 expansion.
The new treatment and storage ponds were constructed with a mixture of native
soils and bentonite and tested by the Discharger to determine soil permeability
factors. Test results at various locations in the ponds indicated that soils met a
permeability factor of 5.4X1 0-7 centimeters/second to limit estimated seepage of
wastewater from the new ponds into the ground water beneath the Facility to
ratesof loss no greater th~;m 500 gallons/acre/day. The older, earthen storage
ponds (nos. 1-5) originally established for CCC wastewater were retained without
modifications.
Proposed Facility:
Completion of system upgrades to increase the ability to treat and store more
wastewater at the Facility is proposed by December 31,2009, to comply with
Cease and Desist Order No. R6T-2005-0016. The proposed expansion will assist
the Discharger to achieve compliance with requirements by increasing the
capacity to treat and store additional waste for agricultural reuse at agronomic
rates. The proposed expansion will increase treatment capacity, as follows: the
average of daily flows for each month will increase from 1.4 MGD to 1.8 MGD;
maximum flow during any day will increa~e from 2.1 MG to 2.7 MG; and the
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -4­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION WDID No. 6Al86000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
maximum flow rate during any hour will increase from 4.2 MGD to 5.4 MGD (5.4
MGD for one hour is equivalent to 225,000 gallons in one hour).
Proposed major modifications to the Facility include the following: improvements
to the headworks (new course and fine screens, presses to compact inert
screened material prior to disposal), new influent pumps and force main; use of
.60-mil high density polyethylene (HOPE) liners. The two existing, soil-lined
primary ponds will be converted to secondary oxidation ponds. A major part of
the upgrade includes lining the existing storage pond nos. 1 -5, and the new
treatment and storage ponds with HOPE. New ponds to be constructed with
HOPE lining will include a primary/fermentation pond, two constructed wetland
cells (10 acres each), and three new storage ponds (nos. 8, 9, and 10) increasing
the storage capacity by 480 acre-feet.
7. Disposal Area
Treated wastewater from the storage ponds is chlorinated and disposed of by
recycling on adjacent State of California owned land used to produce alfalfa
fodder for non-dairy animals. Application is by spray irrigation. Rates vary with
season and crop needs, and disposal is proposed to be at agronomic rates for
the specific crop(s) grown. Based on an agronomic report produced by the
Discharger in 2007, agronomic rates of water and nitrogen application may be
maintained while using up t060 inches of recycled wastewater annually on areas
growing alfalfa. For the purposes of this Order, the term "disposal area" and
acreages cited include multiple spray-irrigation application areaswhere
wastewater is or will be directly applied and'the tail water ponds, but not the
protected and setback areas as identified in Attachment "A."
Existing Disposal Area:
Chlorinated wastewater is pumped to approx,imately 320 acres of alfalfa
(designated as the Upper West Irrigation Field, Lower West Irrigation Field, and
East Irrigation Field) located to the north and northeast of the Facility storage
ponds, as depicted on Attachment "A." A portion of the existing Lower West
irrigation field will be covered by the proposed primary pond and the two
proposed wetland ponds as shown on Attachment "A." The existing disposal
area has two tail water ponds to capture field runoff. Disposal in these areas will
continue during and after the planned Z008-2009 Facility modifications.
Proposed Disposal Area:
The proposed disposal area includes the existing disposal area and an additional
250 acres of disposal area (referred to as the North Circle Irrigation Field). Thirty
six acres of existing disposal area will be relocated because of the new primary
pond and the two wetland ponds. The new fields are shown on Attachment "A"
and identified as (N) Upper West and (N) Lower West fields. The completed
Facility upgrades will bring total acreage available for production of fodder crops
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -5­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION. WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
to 570 acres. This addition is expected to provide enough acres in production
such that fields may be periodically fallowed (not used), and will assistthe
Discharger to maintain agronomic water and nutrient application rates on the
disposal areas. The proposed disposal area will include three new tail water
ponds to capture run off from the disposal areas.
8. Sludge Treatment and Disposal
Currently sludge accumulates and is stored in the primary settling ponds and, to
a lesser extent, in other ponds. Sludge accumulated in storage ponds 1 through
5, will be dried to a semi-solid consistency and mixed with soil to create a
substrate for the two wetland cells to be constructed for wastewater treatment.
No other sludge treatment or disposal is proposed by the Discharger. Based on
the report of waste discharge, sludge may accumulate for 20 years or more in the
proposed Facility prior to reaching levels that may necessitate removal. Sludge
may be stored on'site indefinitely in the Facility ponds, or disposed of at an
approved landfill. No other storage or reuse of sludge is authorized by this Order.
9. Authorized Disposal Area
The agricultural application areas described in Finding No.7, above, are the only
authorized disposal areas forwastewater. The authorized disposal areas for
treated wastewater are located on State lands owned or administered by the
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.
10. Reclamation Requirements
The California Department of Public Health has established statewide
reclamation criteria for the use of reclaimed water for irrigation of fodder crops
not intended for use in the feed for dairy production. The criteria for wastewater
used on fodder crops not intended for use in dairy production is found in the
California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60304, subdivision (d). The
oxidized wastewater from the Facility is considered secondary recycled water
and meets these criteria (independently of any subsequent chlorination process).
The Discharger has requested to use the treated wastewater for the construction
of the upgrades for dust mitigation and for soil compaction. The Discharger will
be required to follow regulations established by California Department of Public
Health in California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60307(b).
In accordance with California Water Code section 13523, the Water Board has
consulted with the California Department of Public Health on the discharge from
the wastewater treatment system to agricultural recycling areas. This Order
includes requirements for reuse of the Facility wastewater as determined in
consultation with the California Department of Public Health.
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -6­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION .WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
11 . Site Geology
The predominant soils underlying the wastewater disposal area are Modoc-Truax
complex, Cleghorn sandy loam, Ardep sandy loam, and Springmeyer sandy
loam. The permeabilities of these soils range from moderately slow to
moderately rapid. The Honlak loam, which is located within the southern buffer
area of the proposed disposal site is poorly suited for irrigated crops because of
high ground water. Faults beyond the site boundaries have the potential to
cause strong earthquakes and ground shaking at the site. The Honey Lake/Fort
Sage Fault Zone, 31 miles long and located eight miles southwest of the Facility,
is the nearest potential seismically active area. The 1989 Uniform Building Code
(UBC) indicates that the site is classified as Seismic Zone 3 and must have
facilities constructed in accordance with the UBC Standards for Seismic Zone 3.
Impoundment embankments have been constructed in accordance with
requirements of the California Division of Safety ofDams..
12. Site Hydrology
Rainfall and snowmelt are· primary sources of runoff from the Facility site.
Industrial stormwater runoff from the Facility is subject to separate National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit requirements of the
federal Clean Water Act, Section 402(p), and associated regulations applicable
to sewage treatment facilities with average daily flows greater than one MGD.
Storm water runoff from the disposal area and adjacent hills flows toward the
south into the Honey Lake Valley, where storm water runoff either evaporates or
reaches the Susan River. The Susan River flows into Honey Lake approximately
13 miles southeast of the Facility. Honey Lake is a terminal lake (no outflow)
located near the California-Nevada border. Portions of the Facility are located
within the boundary of the 1DO-year floodplain of the Susan River. Berms on
wastewater ponds in the 1DO-year floodplain will prevent inundation by a flood of
this magnitude. Adjacent to the authorized disposal area are riparian and marsh
habitats that will be protected by a 100-foot-minimum open space buffer as
shown in attachment "A." These buffer areas will not be affected by spray
irrigation and agricultural development. .
13. Site Hydrogeology
The Facility is located within the Honey Lake Valley ground water basin, a 490
square mile basin with internal drainage, which stores an estimated 16 million
acre-feet of water (California Dept. of Water Resources, California's Ground
Wafer, 1975). Ground water quality with respect to total dissolved solids (TDS)
within this basin is described in the State Water Resources Control Board's 2002
California 305(8) Report On Water Quality, and indicates TDS averages 518 mg/I
with a range of 89 -2500 mgt!.
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -7­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
Local ground water quality may also be influenced by natural geothermal activity
and/or geothermal fluids disposed of from the former Litchfield Geothermal
Project (regulated under separate waste discharge requirements) located near
the northerly boundary of the Facility site.
The prison draws water for municipal (MUN) use 'from two confined aquifers
beneath the site consisting of interbedded, thin sand and gravel layers. The
upper aquifer is located at a depth of 150 to 400 feet, and the lower aquifer
begins at a depth of 625 to 655 feet. A mixture of ground waters from these two
aquifers was analyzed in 1989. Results showed that the ground water was of
better quality than that required to meet secondary drinking water standards (and
some primary standards) for 24 tested parameters.
Prior to the Board Order update in 1995, the ground water was found to exist
near the surface in a shallow unconfined aquifer underlying the Facility.
Seasonally, ground water may rise to within ten feet or less of the pond bottoms.
The nitrate concentrations in some monitoring wells have been observed
infrequently in excess of the maximum contaminant levels for drinking water (10
mg/I for nitrate as N), with concentrations generally less than 5 mgt!. Water
quality in the vicinity of the Facility has been regularly monitored with a network
of ground water wells.
Local ground water movement follows the north-to-south topographic gradient
towards the Susan River in the absence of significant human influences.
However, the ground water was investigated during 2005-2006 due to an
apparent increase ofnitrates in the ground water in some monitoring wells and
concern that the agricultural fields were being over-irrigated. The investigation
indicated that the shallow ground water gradient observed in Facility and disposal
area monitoring wells had shifted from the north.;.to-south topographic gradient
towards the north and was influenced by pumping from two municipal production
wells near the northern boundary of the property that draw substantial water for
the prisons, as described further below. .
14. Changes to Ground Water Gradients and Variability of Ground Water Data
The Discharger produced a ground water report (Groundwater Technical Report
Hydrogeologic Evaluation of the California Correctional Center Wastewater
Treatment Facility, September 7, 2005) that reviewed ground water data
collected at the Facility and authorized disposal site between 1994 and 2005.
The report evaluated available information collected by the Discharger on the
ground water geology, chemistry, and ground water elevations. The report states
(p. ii), "... the natural groundwater surface underlying the wastewater treatment
facility most likely sloped from north to south; however, by 1994 discharge of
geothermal heating water [from City of Susanville's Litchfield Geothermal Project]
,
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -8­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION WDID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
Lassen County
rich in chloride and TDS [total dissolved solids] had created a mound slightly
modifying previous groundwater flows. Moderate nitrate-N impact may have
occurred downgradient (south) of the treatment ponds by 1994. Between 1995
and 1997 pumping from HDSP wells no. 217 and No. 218 reversed the
groundwater gradient under most of the application areas capturing most, if not
all, of the percolation from the sewer ponds and recharge from the application
areas .... as the pumping depression has grown. Wells [for waste monitoring]
that were formerly upgradientof the application areas are now downgradient of
them and two ... have gone dry from the declining water table in the pumping
depression. The pre-1994 nitrate-N impacts south of the ponds diminished.
Moderate to mild nitrate-N impacts appeared north of the ponds and started
migrating northward toward the pumping wells...."
. The report preparer, Condor Earth Technologies, Inc., "concludes that natural
background water quality at monitor wells is not available [at the site] and
detection and evaluation of contamination can best be conducted with time­
series plots of water chemistry. We recommend ... that water quality at the
supply wells be monitored for the arrival of nitrate, TDS, chloride, or other
discharge constituents." .
Time-series plots of data obtained between 1994 and 2004 indicate overall
decreasing trends for wells with elevated nitrate-I\I, with no monitoring well
exceeding 10 mgtl of nitrate-N after August 1, 2001, and only a few wells
consistently above 3 mgtl of nitrate-N, indicating areas of localized degradatibn.
Trends with respect to other constituents are not readily apparent in the time­
series plots. TDS in particular, is highly variable and ranges between from very
low levels to thousands of mgtl in some monitoring wells~ but most frequently
occu~s at levels at or below 2000 mgt!. One exception is monitoring well GW-6b,
w~lich decreased from a high of roughly 12,000 mgtl in 1996 to generally around
6000 mgtl after mid-2000.
Based on the foregoing, this Order includes new reporting requirements that
require the Discharger to develop a method to analyze the ground water data
collected from existing and proposed monitoring wells to determine if ground
water is being degraded or adversely affected by the discharge, The Discharger
will be required to perform an annual analysis to complete this reporting
requirement.
15. Basin Plan
The Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan for the Lahontan Basin
(Basin Plan) that became effective on March 31, 1995. This Order implements
the Basin Plan.
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT -9­ BOARD ORDER NO. R6T-2008-0024
OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION wbID No. 6A186000500
Wastewater Treatment Facility
. Lassen County
16.