A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The existing Facility provides for secondary wastewater treatment that consists of:
screening, grit removal, extended aeration (oxidation ditches), activated sludge
processing, secondary clarification, disinfection (chlorine), de-chlorination processes (box
and open ponds) and a wetland complex where the treated effluent resides prior to
discharge via outfall EFF-001.
The influent flows into the headworks, which consist of fine screening and a grit chamber.
Then the wastewater flows to a distribution box that can convey the wastewater to the
emergency storage ponds (see below) or to the two oxidation ditches for treatment. The
two oxidation ditches-are designed to be able to be run in parallel and may be operated in
series. The wastewater is passed through a secondary clarifier and a chlorine
disinfection process. From the disinfection process, the wastewater may be discharged
into the emergency storage ponds or continue in an underground pipe (that acts as a
chlorine contact chamber) and discharge into a dechlorination box and an open pond to
remove the chlorine. From the open pond the treated effluent passes through a polishing
wetland prior to being discharged into an unlined channel (EFF-001). The effluent is used
to irrigate rangelands and finally discharges into Jensen Slough.
There are two emergency storage ponds, NO.1 and NO.2. The emergency storage
ponds are unlined, cover approximately 8.2 acres, and are some four feet deep providing
an estimated 10.7 million gallons of storage if needed. The ponds have the ability to .
receive e'ff1uent from the headworks and/or from the disinfection process. The raw or
partially treated wastewater flows by gravity to a lift station that pumps the wastewater
back into the headworks screening process. These ponds are used during emergencies,
high flow, power outages, maintenance and system failures.
Sludge handling andtreatmentsystems at the Facility include an aerobic d'igester, sludge
storage tank and a centrifuge to dewater the sludge. Chemical analyses of the sludge
indicate that concentrations of toxic constituents are below hazardous waste limits
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-4
----------- ._ .. _._------~-
specified in Title 26 of the California Code ofRegulations. Sludge is dewatered by
centrifuge and relinquished to others for application to agricultural lands in Lassen
County. Dewatered sludge is also transported to a landfill in Nevada.
The Facility is currently capable of treating, and disposing an annual average flow of 2.0
MGD of municipal wastewater with current flows averaging approximately 1.12 MGD.
There is a maximum average annual flow of 1.486 MGD, a peak wet weather design flow
of 3.1 MGD, and a maximum hydraulic capacity of 4.0 MGD.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger will be discharging wastewater into emergency storage ponds, including
discharging vacuum truck waste collected from spills and collection system
maintenance, and discharges from the wastewater treatment system for routine
. maintenance activities within the treatment plant
During the upcoming permit term, the Discharger is considering changing disinfection
systems, from operating a liquid chlorine system to an ultraviolet (UV) system.
III.