Facility Description

The Producer/Discharger proposes the followi ng sequence of unit processes at the
sub-regional plant:

• influent pump station and pumps • fine screens • grit removal • membrane bioreactor (MBR) technology • ultraviolet disinfection

MBR technology combines aerobic treatm ent, anoxic treatment, and membrane
filtration resulting in a tertiary trea ted, nitrogen reduced effluent. Ultraviolet
disinfection is commonly referr ed to as UV disinfection.
 The Producer/Discharger plans to constr uct the sub-regional plant in phases.
Phase I will be a 1 MGD plant, Phase II will be a 1 MGD expansion to 2 MGD, and
Phase III will be a 2 MGD expansion to 4 MGD. This Order covers WDRs and
WRRs for Phase I. Collected solids from the fine screens and gr it removal will be tr ansported offsite to
an authorized solid waste disposal facility. Biosolids from the aerobic treatment,
anoxic treatment, and membrane bioreactor filtration system are discharged to the
community sewage collection system where they will be treat ed at the regional
plant.

The sub-regional plant treatment flow-s heet is presented in Attachment C.
 6. Recycled Water Uses and Disposal

The Producer/Discharger plans to produce disinfected tertiary recycled water for
the following uses within the Hesperia community: • Landscape or turf irrigation areas • Industrial uses for cooling or other purposes
 7. Authorized Disposal Area/Site

The authorized disposal site is the land discharge site. Disinfected tertiary
recycled water produced in excess of recycled water demands will be discharged

VVWRA – CITY OF HESPERIA - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO. HESPERIA SUB-REGIONAL RP R6V-2013-0005
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360907005

to the land discharge site. The location of the sub-regional plant and the land
discharge site are shown in Facility Location Map. (Attachment A and B)
 8. Current Disposal Practice

Wastewater is currently treated at the regional plant.
9. Recycled Water Use Requirements

The California Department of Public Heal th’s (CDPH) established criteria for the
use of recycled water. These criteria are codified in California Code of
Regulations, article 3 of chapt er 3 of division 4, title 22 , section 60303 et seq. This
Order requires producers and users of recycled water to comply with applicable
California Code of Regulations (CCR) , title 22 criteria.
 As required under CCR , title 22, section 60323, the Discharger must submit an
Engineering Report to CDPH, and obtain its approval, for the production,
distribution and use of recycled water. VVWRA’s status in fulfilling this
requirement is the following:

a. The Producer/Discharger submitted the revised Title 22 Engineering Report
to CDPH on November 30, 2011, as r equired in CCR, title 22, CCR, section
60323.

b. CDPH issued a Title 22 engi neering report comment lett er to the Water Board
on January 24, 2012. CDPH commented that an amended Title 22 report
which identifies the recycled water dist ribution system and specific recycled
water use sites, including use area inspections, monitoring and employee training, will need to be submitted to t he Department for review and approval
prior to any production and delivery of re cycled water. Implementation of this
comment is included in the requirements of this Order.

10. Title 27 California Code of Regulations (CCR) Exemption

As provided in title 27, CCR, sect ion 20090(a), the following discharges are
exempt from the State Water Res ources Control Board regulations:

“Sewage - Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated
by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of this code, or for
which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal wastewater treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid waste from
wastewater treatment facilities shall be discharged only in accordance with the
applicable SWRCB-promulgated provisions of this division.”


VVWRA – CITY OF HESPERIA - 5 - BOARD ORDER NO. HESPERIA SUB-REGIONAL RP R6V-2013-0005
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360907005

As the State Water Resources Contro l Board described in its Lodi decision1,
subsection 20090(a) actually contains two distinct exemptions: 1) a conditional
“sewage exemption” and 2) and uncondi tional “sewage treatment plant
exemption.” The discharges of treated wastewater to the percolation ponds meet the pre-
conditions for Title 27 sewage exemption be cause they meet t he following criteria:

(1) The discharge to the percolati on ponds is regulated by this Order.

(2) The discharge of treated wastewater to the percolation ponds complies
with the Basin Plan because the discharge of treated effluent must attain

===PLANNED CHANGES===

