Discharge Description

The treatment plant is a secondary treatment facility employing a trickling filter .
The plant has redundant primary and secondary clarifiers and trickling filters. Final
effluent is measured and discharged into two percolation ponds. Chlorine is no
longer used to disinfect effluent; however effluent still flows through the chlorine
contact chamber. Some of the final effluent is pumped from the percolation ponds
to irrigate 60 acres of feed crop. The remaining final effluent percolates through the
soil beneath the ponds and recharges groundwater.

Biosolids consisting of sludge and scum from the primary and secondary clarifiers
are pumped to the aerobic digester for stabilization. Following aerobic digestion,
the biosolids are dewatered in 12 solar drying beds that have synthetic plastic
liners . All the drying beds have sludge liquid collection drains. Liquid s drain ed

HELENDALE CSD - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO. R6V -2018 -0015
SILVER LAKES WDID NO. 6B361111001
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY

from each drying bed are combined into a common line and sent to the trickling
filter pump station .

Dewatered biosolids are stored in bins and hauled to Liberty Composting in
Bakersfield or other authorized disposal locations. Grit and screenings from the
headworks are disposed into a local authorized lined Class III landfill. The
Discharger treats an average of 172 million gallons (Mgal) of wastewater each year
(0.47 million gallons per day [mgd]. The Discharger’s 2010 California Code of
Regulations (CCR) , title 22 , Engineering Report and Farm Management Plan
estimated a total annual recharge value of 27 Mgal (0.075 mgd based on an
irrigation water bal ance and average pond recharge rate from 2005 to 2008
(Helendale CSD , 2010).

Based on 2012 – 2014 data, the annual effluent water balance is shown in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance, does not stay any of the WDRs conditions.

8. Propert y Rights

 The WDRs do not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges, nor
does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any
infringement of federal, state or local laws or regulations.

9. Enforcement

 The California Water Code provides for civil liability and criminal penalties for violations or
threatened violations of the WDRs including imposition of civil liability or referral to the
Attorney General.



STANDARD PROVISIONS SEPTEMBER 1, 1994 - 3 -





10. Availability

 A copy of the WDRs shall be kept and maintained by the Discharger and be available at all
times to operating personnel.

11. Severability

 Provisions of the WDRs are severable. If any provision of t he requirements is found
invalid, the remainder of the requirements shall not be affected.

12. Public Access

 General public access shall be effectively excluded from treatment and disposal facilities.

13. Transfers

 Providing there is no material change in the operation of the facility, this Order may be
transferred to a new owner or operation. The owner/operator must request the transfer in
writing and receive written approval from the Regional Board’s Exec utive Officer.

14. Definitions

 a. "Surface waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, live streams,
either perennial or ephemeral, which flow in natural or artificial water courses and
natural lakes and artificial impoundments of waters. "Surface waters" does not
include artificial water courses or impoundments used exclusively for wastewater
disposal.

 b. "Ground waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, all subsurface
waters being above atmospheric pressure and the capillary fringe of these waters.

15. Storm Protection

 All facilities used for collection, transport, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste shall be
adequately protected against overflow, washout, inundation, structural damage or a
significant reduction in efficiency resulting from a storm or flood having a recurrence
interval of once in 100 years.




s/BO INFO/ PROVISIONS(File: standard prov3)

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
LAHONTAN REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
NO. R6V-2018 -0015
WDID NO. 6B361111001

FOR

HELENDALE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
SILVER LAKES WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT

_________________________ San Bernardino County ________________________

I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

 A. Authorization Basis

The California Regional W ater Quality Control Board, Lahontan Region’s
(Water Board’s ) authorization for this Monitoring and Reporting Program
(MRP ) is California Water Code, section 13267.

 B. Report s Required

Reports required under this program are as follow s:

Report Name Period Report Due Date
Routine self-monitoring reports Quarterly – due the first day of the
second month following the quarter :
January 1 – March 31
April 1 – June 30
July 1 – September 30
October 1 – December 31

May 1
August 1
November 1
February 1 of following year
Annual Report Annua l: January 1 – December 31
of prior year March 31 each year
Crop management p lan One time , revised as conditions
change 90 days after Order
signature date
Nitrogen removal assessment Annual , covering January 1 to
December 31 of prior year February 1, contingent upon
conditions met
Corrective Action Plan (CAP) One time August 1 after the end of the
first year that fertilizer is
used, or the Required
Nitrogen Removal criterion
is not met
Sampling and analysis plan One time, updated as necessary July 16 , 2018
Phase 1 agricultural area
groundwater monitoring well work
plan One time January 1, 2019
Phase 1 agricultural area
groundwater monitoring well report One time 30 days after well
installation is complete
Baseline and background water
quality concentrations for new
monitoring wells One time, after a minimum of 8
representative samples are
collected 30 days after obtaining the
baseline and background
water quality samples from
wells


Helendale CSD - 2 - Monitoring and Reporting Program
Silver Lakes No. R6V -2018-0015
Wastewater Treatment Plant WDID No. 6B361111001
San Bernardino County

 C. GeoT racker

The Discharger must upload all correspondence, reports and groundwater
monitoring data to the State’s GeoTracker system. The GeoT racker Global
Identification number is WDR100031399 . The routine monitoring reports
must include a statement that all required GeoT racker data has been
uploaded. Information on how to upload data is found at the following State
Board internet address:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/ust/electronic_s ubmittal/index.shtml

 D. General Provisions

The Discharger must comply with the “General Provisions for Monitoring and
Reporting, ” dated September 1, 1994, which is made part of this M RP as
Attachment A.

 E. Reports

1. Data T ables

a. The Discharger must place the following data into data tables that
are a function of date, including any previous historical results :

• Flow into the treatment plant ;
• Flow from the treatment plant to the percolation ponds and
from the treatment plant to the agriculture sites;
• Groundwater monitoring data (including field parameters) ; and
• Percolation pond freeboard data.

b. In addition to the portable document format ( pdf) monitoring report
submission, the Discharger must submit the data tables to the
Water Board in one or more Microsoft Excel® files or one or more
comma delimited formatted file.

2. Laboratory R eports

a. The Discharger must include in the monitoring repor t all original
data sheets from the analytical laboratory.

b. For sample results greater than or equal to the laboratory’s
reporting limit (RL), the Discharger must report the results as
measured by the laboratory (i.e., the measured chemical
concentration in the sample). When sample results are less than
the reported RL, yet greater than or equal to the laboratory's
Method Detection Limit (MDL), the Discharger must report the
results as "Detected, but Not Quantified (DNQ).” The Discharger
must also repor t the estimated chemical concentration of the
sample using an appropriate data qualifier (e.g. , “J” flag).

Helendale CSD - 3 - Monitoring and Reporting Program
Silver Lakes No. R6V -2018-0015
Wastewater Treatment Plant WDID No. 6B361111001
San Bernardino County

3. Compliance S elf-Assessment

a. The Discharger must use Attachment B, or other form with the
same information, as a cover letter for all reports provided to the
Water Board associated with this program.

b. The Discharger must provide a written explanation for all numeric al
and narrativ e treatment plant effluent violations, including
measures to prevent violation reoccurrence, in each report.

c. The Discharger must provide a written explanation for all numeric al
and narrative