Facility Description

The Facility receives wastewater from residential, commercial, and industrial
developments including pretreated industrial wastewater from the Burlington
Northern and Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway Company classification yard. The Facility
has produced treated secondary nitrified effluent since 1971. Since 2009, t he
Facility has been upgraded to produce treated secondary denitrified effluent. The
Facility ’s process flow diagram is shown on Attachment B.

a. Collection System and Head Works – The plant has a design fl ow rate of
4.5 MGD and a current average daily flow of 2.1 MGD . The treatment plant
headworks is equipped with fine screens and a grit chamber .

b. Septage Receiving – The Facility does not currently accept septage waste.

c. Primary Treatment – Prior to biological treatment, raw wastewater enters through
two parallel settling tanks, called primary clarifiers.

d. Secondary Treatment – After primary clarifiers, wastewater is treated in two
parallel biological aeration basins with anoxic zones , and four secondary
clarifier s.


CITY OF BARSTOW - 5 - Board Order No. R6V-2019- 0252
Wastewater Treatment Plant WDID N o. 6B360101001
San Bernardino County

e. Solids Handling – Sludge and scum from the primary clarifiers are pumped to a
gravity thickener. Sludge from the secondary clarifiers is pumped to an aerobic
digester for stabilization. Scum from the secondary clarifiers is pumped to drying
beds. Waste biosolids are dewatered in two screw presses and 10 small lined
and 6 large lined drying beds. All the drying beds have sludge liquid collection
drains that go to the inlet of the secondary aeration basins. The screw press
filtrate is returned to the inlet of the secondary aeration basins. He adworks
screenings and grit are classified and disposed to a local landfill. D ried sludge
solids are hauled to offsite authorized disposal location , currently a compositing
facility located at 14479 Cougar Road, Helendale.

f. Percolation Ponds – Secondary treated wastewater is discharged into eight
percolation ponds on the south side of the Mojave River. T he total percolation
pond surface area is approximately 44 acres.

g. Recycled Water – Secondary, denitrified effluent is applied to a 65-acre field
(South Irrigation Field) as recycled water to irrigate crops, predominately alfalfa.
Two fields (North and South Irrigation Fields), previously were used by the
Discharger to dispose of biosolids and secondary treated nitrified effluent from
the Faci lity. CDO No. R6V-2004- 0029 required the Discharger to cease biosolids
appli cation at both irrigation fields. The Discharger also elected to only use
recycled water at the South Irrigation Field and, since 2004, stopped applying
effluent to the North Irrig ation Field. A Farm Management Plan, dated
October 31, 2018, estimated an average monthly water crop need of 21 million
gallons ( MG).

Based on data from September 2017 to October 2018, the average monthly
effluent water balance for the Facility is shown in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncomplianc e, does not stay any of the WDRs conditions.

8. Propert y Righ ts

 The WDRs do not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges, nor
does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any
infringem ent of federal, state or local laws or regulations.

9. Enforcement

 The California Water Code provides for civil liability and criminal penalties for violations or
threatened violations of the WDRs including imposition of civil liability or referral to the
Attorney General.



STANDARD PROV ISIONS SEPTEMBER 1, 1994 - 3 -





10. Availability

 A copy of the WDRs shall be kept and maintained by the Discharger and be available at all
times to operating personnel.

11. Severability

 Provisions of the WDRs are severable. If any provision of t he req uirements is f ound
invalid, the remainder of the requirements shall not be affected.

12. Public Access

 General public access shall be effectively excluded from treatment and disposal facilities.

13. Transfers

 Providing there is no material change in the operation of the facility, this Order may be
transferred to a new owner or operation. The owner/operator must request the transfer in
writing and receive written approval from the Regional Board’s Exec utive Officer.

14. Definitions

 a. "Surface w aters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, live streams,
either perennial or ephemeral, which flow in natural or artificial water courses and
natur al lakes and artificial impoundments of waters. "Surface waters" does not
include artifi cial water courses or impoundments used exclusively for wastewater
disposal.

 b. "Ground waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, all subsurface
waters being above atmospheric pressure and the capillary fri nge of these waters.

15. Storm Protection

 All facilities used for collection, transport, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste shall be
adequately protected against overflow, washout, inundation, structural damage or a
significant re duction in efficiency resulting from a storm or flood having a recurrence
interval of once in 100 years.



CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
LAHONTAN REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
NO. R6V-2019- 0252
WDID NO. 6B36 0101001

FOR

CITY OF BARSTOW
BARSTOW WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT

______ _____________________San Bernardino County______ _________________

I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

A. Authorization Basis and Effective Date

This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) is being required pursuant to
California Water Code (CWC) , section 13267 and is effective on the date it is
signed by the Water Board’s Executive Officer.

B. California Water Code, Section 13267

CWC , section 13267 (a) states that the regional board, “in establishing or
reviewing any water quality control plan or waste discharge requirements, or in
connection with any action relating to any plan or requirement authorized by this
division, may investigate the quality of any waters of the state within its region.”

Information requested in this M RP is necessary to establish compliance with
waste discharge requirements (WDRs). Effluent and groundwater monitoring are
required to determine if discharges from the Barstow Wastewater Treatment
Plant (Facility) are impacting waters of the State. The M RP requires the
Disch arger to collect representative effluent and groundwater samples and
analyze and report the sampling data to evaluate compliance with the Water
Quality Control Plan for the Lahontan Region (Basin Plan) water quality
objectives and WDRs . These reports will evaluate compliance with Board Order
requirements and ensure the discharge complies with the Basin Plan. Therefore,
the burden, including costs, of these reports bears a reasonable relationship to
the need for the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports .

In addition, this MRP includes information to establish groundwater nitrate
concentrations north of the Mojave River, not associated with current discharges
from the Facility but associ ated with the City of Barstow (Discharger) historical
discharges and Cleanup and Abatement Order (CAO) No. R6V -2013 -0045.
These monitoring requirements are necessary to evaluate and investigate the
quality of the state’s waters pursuant to CWC, section 13267 . The reports are
needed to determine the current extent of nitrate and impacts to groundwater
quality from the City of Barstow’s historical discharges. Therefore, the burden,

CITY OF BARSTOW - 2 - Monitoring and Reporting Program
Wastewater Treatment Plant No. R6V -2019- 0252
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B360101001

including costs, of these reports bears a reasonable relationship to the need for
the report and the benefits to be obtained from the reports .

C. Summary of Reports Required

The Discharger, who discharges undisinfected secondary treated wastewater
generated from the Facility to percolation ponds and the South Irrigation Field, is
required to submit technical or monitoring reports pursuant to CWC, section
13267.

Following is a summary of reports required u nder this program .

Summary of Required Reports
Report Name Period Report Due Date
Self-monitoring reports Quarterly – due the 1st day of second
month following the quarter:
January 1 – March 31
April 1 – June 30
July 1 – September 30
October 1 – December 31

May 1
Aug 1
Nov 1
Feb 1 of following year
Annual Report, including
nitrogen removal assessment January 1 – December 31 of prior year
March 1 each year
Sampling and Analysis Plan One time, updated as necessary November 7 , 2019

Each quarterly report must provide information on: (1) general operations, (2)
operational problems, (3) compliance assessment, and (4) data for constituents ,
as specified below.

D. Report and Correspondence Submittal

All correspondence, reports, and groundwater monitoring data must be uploaded
to the State Water Resources Control Board’s (State Water Board’s) GeoTracker
database under the site g lobal identification number WDR100027318 . The
GeoTracker website can be accessed at the following, where accounts can be
registered: https://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/esi/login.asp. Please contact
the GeoTracker Help Desk if you have any questions. Contact information for the
Help Desk is email: GeoTracker@waterboards.ca.gov , phone: (866) 480- 1028.
Please send a copy of the GeoTracker email upload confirmation to the assigned
Water Board project staff.

E. GeoTracker

The Discharger must comply with the Electronic Submittal of Information (ESI)
requirements by submitting all analytical data required under the MRP in
electronic data format (EDF) to the State Water Board’s Geo Tracker database.


CITY OF BARSTOW - 3 - Monitoring and Reporting Program
Wastewater Treatment Plant No. R6V -2019- 0252
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B360101001

This includes monitoring locational data (latitude and longitude) and searchable
portable data format ( PDF) monitoring reports.

The following information must be uploaded one -time.

1. Boring Logs and Well Screen Intervals : Requirement applies to existing wells
and any newly installed boring or wells. Boring logs must be prepared by an
appropriate licensed professional (civil engineer or geologist) and submitted
in PDF format. If a monitoring well is installed, the total well depth , screen
depth, and screen interval must be reported.

2. Locational Data : Permanent groundwater sampling locations must be
surveyed by a California registered surveyor. The surveyed locational
information for these sampling points must be submitted using the Geo_XY
file and include sur vey information for the measuring point elevation and
elevation of the ground surface.

3. Site Map : An electronic site plan map must be submitted into the GEO_MAP
file and display site features, pond locations, adjacent streets, and sampling
locations for all groundwater monitoring wells . The site map is a stand- alone
document that may be submitted in various formats. Updated site maps must
be submitted when site conditions change.

The following data must be uploaded each time a well is sampled .

4. Lab Data : Analytical data (including geochemical data) for all samples
collected must be submitted in specified EDF format.

5. Depth to Water Data : Monitoring wells need to have the static depth to water
information reported in the GEO_WELL file whenever the data is collected,
even if the well is not actually sampled during the sampling event.

6. Elevation Data : Groundwater elevation measurements (as related to the top
of the measuring point elevation) must be reported as elevation above mean
sea level and submitted as part of the GEO_Z file. Measuring points and
measuring point elevations must be specified for each monitoring well.

F. General Provisions

The Discharger must comply with the “General Provisions for Monitoring and
Reporting” dated September 1, 1994, which is made part of this M RP as
Attachment A .


CITY OF BARSTOW - 4 - Monitoring and Reporting Program
Wastewater Treatment Plant No. R6V -2019- 0252
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B360101001

G. Reports

1. Data Tables

a. The Discharger must place the following data into tables , includ ing date
information:

i. Influent t reatment plant f low;

ii. Effluent flow to percolation ponds and agriculture sites ;

iii. Groundwater monitoring data (including field parameters) ;

iv. Percolation pond freeboard data ; and

v. Historical data for entries covering, at minimum, the last five years.

b. The Discharger must submit the data tables to the Water Board in one or
more Microsoft Excel® files or one or more comma delimited formatted
files with the PDF monitoring report submission.

c. Where additional data are collected above minimum reporting
requirements, that additional data must be reported.

2. Laboratory Reports

a. The Discharger must include in the monitoring report all original analytical
laboratory reports.

b. For sample results greater than or equal to the laboratory’s reporting l imit
(RL), the Discharger must report the results as measured by the
laboratory (i.e., the measured chemical concentration in the sample).
When sample results are less than the laboratory’s RL yet are greater
than or equal to the laboratory's Method Detection Limit (MDL), the
Discharger must report the results as "Detected, but Not Quantified
(DNQ). ” The Discharger must also report the estimated chemical
concentration of the sample using an appropriate data qualifier (e.g. ,
“J” flag).

3. Compliance Self-Assessment

a. The Discharger must use Attachment B , or other form with the same
information, as a cover letter for all reports provided to the Water Board
associated with this MRP .


CITY OF BARSTOW - 5 - Monitoring and Reporting Program
Wastewater Treatment Plant No. R6V -2019- 0252
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B360101001

b. The Discharger must provide a written explanation for all numeric and
narrative plant effluent and