Facility Description

The Producer/Discharger proposes the follo wing sequence of unit processes at
the sub-regional plant: • influent pump station and pumps • fine screens • grit removal • membrane bioreactor (MBR) technology • ultraviolet disinfection.

MBR technology combines aerobic treatm ent, anoxic treatment, and membrane
filtration resulting in a tertiary trea ted, nitrogen reduced effluent. Ultraviolet
disinfection is commonly referr ed to as UV disinfection.
 The Producer/Discharger plans to constr uct the sub-regional plant in phases.
Phase I will be a 1 MGD plant, Phase II will be a 1 MGD expansion to 2 MGD,
and Phase III will be a 2 MGD expansion to 4 MGD. This Order covers WDRs
and WRR for Phase I. Collected solids from the fine screens and grit removal will be transported offsite
to an authorized solid waste disposal fa cility. Biosolids from the aerobic
treatment, anoxic treatment , and membrane bioreactor filtration system are
discharged to the community sewage collection system where they will be
treated at the regional plant. The sub-regional plant treatment flow-s heet is presented in Attachment C.
 6. Recycled Water Uses and Disposal

The Producer/Discharger plans to produce disinfected tertiary recycled water for
the following uses within the Apple Valley community:
 • Landscape or turf irrigation areas • Industrial uses for cooling or other purposes
 7. Authorized Disposal Area/Site

The authorized disposal site is the land discharge site. Disinfected tertiary
recycled water produced in excess of recycled water demands will be discharged

VVWRA - TOWN OF APPLE VALLEY - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO.
APPLE VALLEY SUB-REGION AL RP R6V-2013-0004
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360907006

to the land discharge site. The location of the sub-regional plant and the land
discharge site are shown in Facility Location Maps. (Attachment A and B)

8. Current Disposal Practice

Wastewater is currently treated at the regional plant.
 9. Recycled Water Use Requirements

The California Department of Public Heal th’s (CDPH) established criteria for the
use of recycled water. These criteria are codified in California Code of
Regulations, article 3 of c hapter 3 of division 4, titl e 22, section 60303 et seq.
This Order requires producers and user s of recycled water to comply with
applicable California Code of Regulations (CCR ), title 22 criteria.
 As required under CCR , title 22, section 60323, the Discharger must submit an
Engineering Report to CDPH, and obtain its approval, for the production,
distribution and use of recycled water. VVWRA’s status in fulfilling this
requirement is the following:

a. The Producer/Discharger submitted the revised Title 22 Engineering
Report to CDPH on November 30, 2011, as required in CCR title 22,
section 60323.

b. CDPH issued a Title 22 engineering report comment letter to the Water
Board on January 24, 2012. CDPH comm ented that an amended Title 22
report which identifies the recycled wate r distribution system and specific
recycled water use sites, including use area inspections, monitoring and employee training, will need to be submi tted to the Department for review
and approval prior to any production and delivery of recycled water. Implementation of this comment is in cluded in the requirements of this
Order.

10. Title 27 California Code of Regulations (CCR) Exemption

As provided in title 27, CCR, sect ion 20090(a), the following discharges are
exempt from the State Water Res ources Control Board regulations:

“Sewage - Discharges of domestic se wage or treated effluent which are
regulated by WDRs issued pursuant to C hapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of
this code, or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water qual ity objectives, and treatment or
storage facilities associated with m unicipal wastewater treatment
plants, provided that re sidual sludges or solid waste from wastewater
treatment facilities shall be disc harged only in accordance with the
applicable SWRCB-promulgated prov isions of this division.”

VVWRA - TOWN OF APPLE VALLEY - 5 - BOARD ORDER NO.
APPLE VALLEY SUB-REGION AL RP R6V-2013-0004
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360907006

As the State Water Resources Contro l Board described in its Lodi decision1,
subsection 20090(a) actually contains two distinct exemptions: 1) a conditional
“sewage exemption” and 2) and uncondi tional “sewage treatment plant
exemption.”

The discharges of treated wastewater to the percolation ponds meet the pre-
conditions for Title 27 sewage exemption be cause they meet t he following criteria:

(1) The discharge to the percolati on ponds is regulated by this Order.

(2) The discharge of treated wastewater to the percolation ponds complies
with the Basin Plan because the disc harge of treated effluent must
attain