existing Facility will remain unchanged.
The time schedule will allow the Discharger to develop a capital improvement planto allocate funding for these plant upgrades. It is in the best interest of the people ofthe state for the Discharger to meet the time schedules contained in this Board
Order while still maintain ing the public service that the Facility provides .
e.The need for developing housing within the region – The Discharger is not
responsible for developing housing within the region. In addition, the land
surrounding the Facility is largely government owned and likely will n ot be
developed.
f.The need to develop and use recycled water – This Board Order does not regulate
recycled water uses or otherwise impact recycled water uses.
26. Right to Safe, Clean, Affordable, and Accessible Water
CWC, section 106.3, establishes a state policy that every human being has the right tosafe, clean, affordable, and accessible water adequate for human consumption,cooking, and sanitary purposes and directs state agencies to consider this policy whenadopting regulations pertinent to those uses of water. This Board Order promotes that
policy by establishing a time schedule requiring the Discharger to upgrade the
treatment , which will improve water quality and protect drinking water use. The
groundwater in the area includes a MUN beneficial use.

CALTRANS VALLEY WELLS -11 -
Safety Roadside Rest Area WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
BOARD
ORDER NO. R6V-2 021-0022
San Bernardino County WDID No. 6B361809001
27. California Code of Regulations, Title 27
California Code of Regulations ( CCR), title 27, section 20090(a) and (b) states that
discharges are exempt from title 27 requirements for waste disposal provided the
activity meets and continues to meet the following conditions:
“(a) Sewage – Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated
by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, title 23 of this code, or for which
WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water qualityobjectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal wastewater
treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid waste from wastewatertreatment facilities shall be discharged only in accordance with the applicable SWRCB -
promulgated provisions of this division. ”
“(b) Wastewater – Discharges of wastewater to land, including but not limited to
evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface leachfields if the following
conditions are met :
1)The applicable RWQCB has issued WDRs, reclamation requirements, or waivedsuch issuance;
2)The discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control plan; and
3)The wastewater does not need to be managed according to Chapter 11, Division
4.5, title 22 of this code as a hazardous waste. ”
The wastewater discharged from the Facility is from domestic sewage regulated by
WDRs issued in this Board Order . Discharges from the Facility are in compliance with