Facility Description
 Current Conditions

The IWTP is a 2.5 million gallons per day (MGD) treatment capacity facility that can treat
up to 1.0 MGD of industrial wastewater flows (currently primarily food and beverage
clients) from the SCLA Industrial Park and up to 1.5 MGD of domestic sanitary flows
from the City, including flow from the Federal Bureau of Prison. The IWTP was
constructed and came online in 2010. The IWTP treatment facility is designed in a modular fashion consisting of the following unit processes (Attachment D):

• Preliminary screening processes;
• Primary treatment of industrial influent utilizing an Upflow Anaerobic Sludge
Blanket (UASB) process;
• Industrial Flow equalization;
• Anoxic and aerobic wastewater treatment of the combined streams utilizing
activated sludge processes;
• Membrane Bio-Reactor (MBR) filtration; and
 Disinfection utilizing ultraviolet light (UV).

Aerobic waste activated sludge is collected from the membrane bioreactor system and
transferred to the aerobic sludge holding tank and aerobically digested. The treatment
facility generates very little sludge. Once or twice a year, the collected digested sludge
is sent to VVWRA’s headworks from the sl udge holding tank via the existing Adelanto

VICTORVILLE WATER DISTRICT - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO.
IWTP, POND No.WDR and REUSE WRRs R6V-2014-0002
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001

 Interceptor Sewer Transmission Line. VVWRA will continue to accept bio-solids in this
manner. Currently water in excess of the City’s recycled water demand is also
discharged to VVWRA via the Adelanto Interceptor Sewer Transmission Line.

Following adoption of this Order, disinfec ted tertiary recycled water produced in excess
of recycled water demands will be discharged to pond No. 14 via a 16-inch pipeline.
Recycled water will be used at the Westwinds Golf Course and at other locations at
SCLA for landscape irrigation and industrial process water.

The IWTP currently operates at flows less than design. In 2012, the average daily flow
was 0.50 MGD; with an average 0.43 MGD discharged to the Westwinds Golf Course and 0.07 MGD discharged to VVWRA.

The VWD’s 2012 Annual Monitoring Report, submitted by the City on behalf of the VWD, indicates the following effluent quality:

Table 1 – Average 2012 IWTP Effluent Quality
5

Constituent Concentration (mg/L)
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 25
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 0.75
Ammonia 0.1
Nitrate-Nitrogen 1.25
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) 0.14
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) 763
Sulfate 269
Chloride 56

Total nitrogen is the sum of TKN, nitrate and nitrite (typically negligible). For 2012, total
nitrogen averaged about 1.39 mg/L. The VWD’s consultant estimates that near full
IWTP flow of less than 2.5 MGD, effluent ni trate-N concentrations will average 4.4 mg/L
once additional Federal Bureau of Prison flows are treated.
Future Conditions
 Treated effluent from the IWTP produced in excess of recycled water demand will be
gravity fed from the 1-million gallon elevat ed storage tank, located at Westwinds Golf
Course, through an existing 2.7 mile pipeline, a new 2,400 foot pipeline connection, and
into pond No. 14. Discharges to pond No. 14 would occur at varying flow rates and
times of the year based on recycled water demand. The VWD estimates that effluent
total nitrogen concentrations will increase from an average of 1.39 mg/L in 2012 but will
not exceed 6.1 mg/L at full IWTP flow of 2.5 mgd.
The VWD evaluated impacts on receiving groundwater from TDS for various planned
IWTP flow and recycled water use scenarios as shown in Table 2. Initial discharge to
pond No. 14 would average about 0.12 MGD, the same average flow rate of IWTP

5 2010 Annual Report for the Victorville Wastewater Treatment Fa cility, Board Order No. R6V-2010-0023, February 1, 2011,
City of Victorville

VICTORVILLE WATER DISTRICT - 5 - BOARD ORDER NO.
IWTP, POND No.WDR and REUSE WRRs R6V-2014-0002
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001

 effluent currently delivered to VVWRA for treatment and disposal. This discharge
scenario would occur for up to 4 years and result in a short-term, localized groundwater
quality degradation beneath pond No. 14. After a raw sewage lift station and force main
is completed within 2 to 4 years, additional Federal Bureau of Prison domestic
wastewater flows will be treated at the IWTP; with an estimated 0.50 MGD of effluent
discharged to pond No. 14. After an additional 5 years, the VWD anticipates the IWTP effluent TDS concentration will be suitable for use by the HDPP. Reductions in TDS
effluent levels would be from industrial source salt reductions and diversion of additional
domestic sewage and flow from the Federal Bureau of Prison into the IWTP.

Table 2 - Potential Discharge of IWTP Effluent and TDS Concentrations at
Different Flow Scenarios and Resultant Groundwater TDS Concentrations at 1,600
feet radius from pond 14

IWTP
Effluent
Flow
rate
(MGD) Discharge
to Pond
14
(MGD) Discharge
to HDPP
(MGD)* Recycled
water
uses
(MGD) Max
effluent
TDS
Conc.
(mg/L) Resultant
Max GW
TDS
Conc. At
1600 ft.
from
pond 14
(mg/L) Comments
0.50 0.12 0 0.38 665 499.2 Initial conditions;
2 to 4 yrs.
0.88 0.50 0 0.38 550 499.7 After lift station is
operational
1.5 1.05 0 0.45 516 499.4 HDPP is down for
maintenance
(normally 6 weeks per year)
* There will be no discharge to HDPP until the effluent TDS levels reduce to HDPP salinity requirements.

9. Industrial Wastewater Treatment Program

Under California Code of Regulations, title 23, section 2233(a), the Water Board may
require a Discharger to have and enforce a pretreatment program. According to the
report of waste discharge, the IWTP design is for 60 percent of the facility flow from
domestic wastewater and 40 percent from industrial wastewater at the SCLA complex. Currently, the largest industrial source to the IWTP is the Snapple/Dr. Pepper plant.
Future industrial sources have yet to be identified. Industrial sources may contribute
constituents that, if not controlled by the Discharger, will have the potential to pass
through or interfere with the facility, and may cause degradation or pollution in the
receiving groundwater. Given the need to protect the groundwater resource, and the potential for constituents to pass through or interfere with the IWTP, this Order requires
the Discharger to have and implement a pretre atment program that may include salinity
control methods to achieve the effluent and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance, does not stay anY of the WORs conditions.
8. frQa!rtV Rights
The WDRs do not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive priVIleges. nor
does It authorize any inJury to private property or any Invasion of personal rights, nor any
infringement of federal, state or local laws or regulations.
s. Enfarcemem
The California Water Code provides for cMiliabllfty and criminal penalties for Violations or
threatened violations of the WDRs fncludJng Imposition of civn liability or referral to the
Attomey General.
I '
ST ANDARO PROVISIONS -3 - SEPTEMBER 1,1994
10. Aval!abll!tv.
A copy of 1he WDRs shall be kept and maintained by the Discharger and be avalable at al
times to or>eraUng personnel
11. Severabiii!Y
Provfaiona of the WORs are severable. If any provision of the requirements is found
invald, the remainder of the requirements shall not be affected.
12. Pubftc Access
General public access shall be effectively excluded rrom treatment and disposal facilities
13. Transfers
Providing lhara Is no material change In the opefBtlon of the facility, this Order may be
transferred to a new owner or operation. The owner/operator must request the transfer fn
wrltilg and receive Written approval from the Regional Board's Executive Officer.
14. l}efinltions
a. "Surface waters" as used ln thJs Order, include, bUt are not llmlted to, llw stream a,
either peAIMial or aphemera1. which floiN In natunll or ertiftclal water courses and
nal\Jrallakes and artificial mpoundments of waters. "Sufface waters" does not
Include artificial water courses or Impoundments used exclusively for wastewater
dlsposal.
b. "Ground waters" as used In this Order, include, but are not limited to, all subsurface
waters being above atmospheric pressure and the a~plllary fringe of these waters
15 storm Protection
All facilities used for collecUon, transport, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste shall be
adequataly protected against overflow. washout, Inundation, structural damage or a
algnlflcant reducUon In affldeney I'B&ultJng from a storm or flood having a recurrence
Interval of once fn 100 years.
11180 INFOIPROVISIONS(file; standard prov3)
(p 'Jj ATTACHMENT H
State of California-Health and Human Services Agency
California Department of Public Health
EDIIJMO 0. 8ROWH JR.
February 9, 2011
John Morales
Water Resourees Control Engineer
Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board
14440 Ctvlc Drive, Suite 200
VIctorville, CA 92392
Dear Mr. Morales:
SCLA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT- TROJAN 3000+ UV REACTOR
CITY OF VICTORVILLE (SYSTEM NO. 3690021) Go-.or
The Department Is in receipt of the report titled Engtneerlng Report for the Production,
Distribution snd Use of Recycled Water-Southem Csllfomls Logistics Airport
Wastewater Trestment Plsnt, dated February 2, 2010. The Department provld~
comments in a letter dated April 8, 201 0 requesting an on~sJte check-point bioassay to
verify performance of the UV reactor. The results of the bioassay were submitted to the
Department in a report titled SCLA Wastewater TnJstment FaciHty, UV Disinfection
System, Field Commissioning Test, dated December 2010.
Tasting Results
To verify performance of the Victorville SCLA plant UV system at several flows and
UVTs, an on-site bioassay was conducted An etght·pofnt checkpoint bioassay was
conducted using seeded MS2. Results. documenUng virus dfs,nfectlon performance of
the UV system compared to the standards found Jn TftJe 22 of the Callfomia Code of
Regulations, was submitted to CDPH for acceptance . The comments listed below are
based on the review of the commissioning test report.
There are issues raised by the Vlctorvllle testing. Comparing the Victorville SCLA UV
system test results to the Trojan validation testing, the ratio of the measured and
predicted data is w6Q percent to +14 percent where •.· reflects the maximum percent
under pred1ctfon of the measured UV dose and · +' reflects the maximum percent over
prediction of the measured UV dose tn the data set. Seven of the eight "checkpoint•
test resu"s were below what Is expected. The report explains:
Soulhem Clllfoma Crt~ Warer Field Opendlon• Branch. San Betnardlno Dlatrict
4&4 w.t 4.,. 8trMt, Suite .. 37, San Bemeldno. CA 82ot01
Tll.,hoM : (801)383-4328/ Fax: (109)313-4746
lrumet Addrea: M«t.stPb.IIJ ·P
John Morales
February 9, 2011
Page2
'"The fundamental conclusions drawn from the study are (1) the system currently
treats too much industr)al wastewater to allow for the assumed minimum UV
transmittance of 65% at this time, and {2) the system actually applies a lower
dose than would be expected from the underlying approved dose equation:
Further Testing and Additional Issues
1. To adequately characterize the abtlity of the Vlctocvflle SCLA UV system to meet
the NWRI UV Guidelines, and the microbiological water quaJity objective of Title
22, Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 60301.230(a)2, more bioassay testing should be
conducted . This additional testing Is recommended in the Stantec report. A new
test protocol describing proposed flow, UVT, and power conditions must be
submitted for review.
2. After completion of additional testing, the results must be submitted for review.
Operational Issues
3. The V. ctorville SCLA UV system must be operated to deliver a minimum UV
dose of 189 mJ/cm2 at all times
4. The equations below must be used as part of the automatic W dlsrnfection
control system for calculating UV dose and should be specified as a permit
provision. They are from the CDPH July 23, 2009 acceJ;!tance letter, entiUed
"Revtsed Conditional Acceptance Of Trojan Uv3000plus Tht Disinfection System.
Correction Factor For 2005 Bioassay":
Dose = (CF)*(FF)*(EOLl)*1 0..,. 113-0· 7 •~og Flow • 2 t1 •log UVT + 1.oe •log P
and
CF = -0.003 x WT + 1.075 (correcbon factor to the 2006 bioassay)
Where:
Dose = Delivered UV dose per bank with 48 lamps (mJ/cm2);
FF = 0.95 Fouling Factor based upon a cleaning frequency of once every 24
hours (as documented In the report)
UVT Ill% lN transmittance at 254 nm (%);
FJow = Flow rate per lamp [gallons per mfnute (gpm)nampJ, with gpm/lamp
calculated as gpm divided by the number of lamps In one bank; this Is
calculated based upon the total flow through the complete UV dlslnfectlon
system measured by the magnetic flow meter (total flow through both
channels)
EOU = End of Lamp Ufe factor= 0.98 at 9000 hours for the Heraeus lamp
P = percent power
John Morales
February 9, 2011
Page 3
5. The UV disinfection system reactor Is limited to the following operational
parameter ranges:
a. UVT at or above 56 %.
b. Assuming full power, worst case conditions of 55% UVT, 189 mJ/cm2 dose,
EOLL of 0.98, and FF of 0.95, permit flow up to 17.4 gpm per lamp per bank.
Therefore, using four bank.s (one banl< is for redundancy requirements) the
plant capacity, at 55 % UVT, Is 1.60 MGO (1112 gpm).
c. At a UVT of 57%, J?ermit flow up to 1.84 MGD (1278 gpm), based upon full
power, 189 mJ/cm2 dose, EOLL of 0.98, and FF of 0.95.
d. At a UVT of 60%, )?ennlt flow up to 2.25 MGD (1560 gpm), based upon full
power, 189 mJ/cm2 dose, EOLL of 0.98, and FF of 0.95.
e. The UV lamps are maintained beiOYI the maxlmlll'l value of 9,000 hours of
operation.
6. To maintain a Fouling Factor of 0.95, clean/wipe the quartz sJeeves once every
eight hours.
7. Flow meters and uvr monitors must be properly calibrated to ensure proper
disinfection.
8. UVT meter must be Inspected and checked against a reference benchwtop unit
weekly to document accuracy.
9. If the on~ line analyzer UVT reading varies from the bench-top spectrophotometer
UVT reedlt'lg by 2o/o or more, the on--nne WT analyzer must be recallbrated by a
procedure recommended by the manufacturer.
10. Flow meters measuring the flow through a UV reactor must be verified to
determine accuracy at least monthly vta checking the flow reading against other
flow determination methods.
11. The facility should be operated In accordance with an approved operations plan,
which specifies clearly the operational limits and responses required for critical
alarms The operations plan should be submitted and approved prior to issuance
of the operating permit. A oopy of the approved operations plan should be
maintained at the treatment plant and be readily available to operations
personnel and regulatory agencies. A quick reference plant operations data
sheet should be posted at the treatment plant and Include the followfng
information:
John Morales
February 9, 2011
Page 4
a. The alarm set points for secondary and tertiary turbidity. high and low flow,
UV dose and transmittance, UV lamp operaUon hours, and power.
• alarm set points for tertiary turbidity shall be 0.2 NTU.
b. The values of secondary and tertiary turbidity, high and low flow, UV dose
and transmittance, UV lamp operation hours, and power when flow must be
diverted to waste.
c. The required frequency of caRbratlon for all meters measuring turbidity, flow,
UV transmittance, and power.
d. The required frequency of mechanleaJ eleanlngAvlplng and equipment
Inspection
e. The UV lamp age tracking procedures and replacement Intervals.
12. The Trojan W3000Pius.,... UV systems must be operated with a built-in
automatic reliability feature that must be triggered when the system Is below the
taroet W dose of 189 mJ/art at all times. If the measured UV dose goes below
the minimum UV dose, the W reactor In question must alarm and startup the
next avaRable UV lamp bank.
13. Conditfons that should shut a reactor down and divert flow include: Inability to
meet the target dose, high flow, low uvr, or reactor failure.
• Automatic diversion for tertiary turbidity shall be > 0.5 NTU.
• Automatic diversion for UV dose shall be < 189 mJicm2•
• Automatic diversion for UVT shall be < 55%.
14. Equivalent replacements or substitutions of equipment are not acceptable without
an adequate demonstration of equivalent dJsJnfectlon performance.
These applicable recommendations should be incorporated into the final pennlt for the
SCLA Wastewater Treatment Plant. As noted earlier. an additional bioassay test Is
required to adequately characterize the ability of the VictorviiJe SCLA UV system to
meet the NWRJ UV Guidelines, and the microbiological water quality objective of Title
22. TheW system should be operated at a target dose of 189 mJ/cm2•
John Morales
February 9, 2011
Page5
We appreciate the opportunity to review and comment on the subject project. If you
have any questions regarding this letter, please contact me at (909) 383-4328.
Sincerely,
>&-P!14~,
Sean F. McCarthy, P.E.
Senior SanitatY Engineer
San Bernardino District
cc: Steve Ashton
VIctorville Water District
17185 Yuma Street
VIctorville, CA 92395
Brian Bemados, COPH-Technical Programs Branch
•
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
LAHONTAN REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING
PROGRAM NO. R6V-2014-0002
WDID NO. 6B360911001

FOR

CITY OF VICTORVILLE WATER DISTRICT INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT AND VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY,
CITY OF VICTORVILLE

________________________ ___ San Bernardino Coun ty __________________________

I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

A. Effective date
 This monitoring and reporting program (MRP) is being required pursuant to Water Code
section 13267, is enforceable under Water Code section 13268 and is effective on the
date signed by the Water Board’s Executive Officer.
B. Overview of Reports Required
 The Discharger must submit twelve (12) Monthly Monitoring Reports and two (2)
Annual Reports ( Annual Compliance Summary and Annual Pretreatment
Program ) each year. The Disch arger must submit a one-time Sampling and Analysis
Plan , and update it as needed. The monthly monito ring reports are due on the thirtieth
day of the following month. Each monthly report must provide information on: (1)
general operations, (2) operational problems, (3) compliance assessment, and (4) data
for constituents as specified below. The May and November reports (due by June 30
and December 30, respectively) shall include the April and October groundwater monitoring results specified below. The annual monitoring reports are due March 1 of
each year.
C. Certified Cover Letter
 The Discharger must use Attachment A as a co ver letter, or a cover letter containing the
same information, certifying all reports provi ded to the Water Board associated with this
MRP
D. General Provisions
 The Discharger must comply with the “General Provisions for Monitoring and Reporting”
dated September 1, 1994, whic h is made part of this Moni toring and Reporting Program
as Attachment B.
CITY OF VICTORVILLE – 2 – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
PERCOLATION POND 14 NO. R6V-2014-0002 San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001



E. Sampling and Analysis Plan
 By April 1, 2014 , pursuant to General Provision No. 1. d. of the General Provisions for
Monitoring and Reporting, the Discharger must submit to the Water Board a Sampling
and Analysis Plan (SAP) . Also, a copy of the sampling and analysis plan must be
maintained at the Facility and available for inspection. The SAP must include a detailed
description of procedures and techniques for: 1. Sample collection, sample locati ons, including purging techniques, sampling
equipment, and decontamination of sampling equipment;
2. Ground water well purging methods and sample collection methods (the procedure
should be consistent with the Guidance M anual for Ground Water Investigations,
revised 2008, by the California Departm ent of Toxic Substances Control, or
consistent with USEPA, Ground-Water Sa mpling Guidelines for Superfund and
RCRA Project Managers, May 2008 or subsequent revision);
 a. Sample preservation and shipment; b. Analytical methods and procedures; c. Chain of custody control; d. Quality assurance/qua lity control (QA/QC);
 e. Frequency of calibration of any ons ite equipment (pH meter, electrical
conductivity meter, flow meter); and
 f. Description of how ons ite measurements are done.

F. Operation and Maintenance
 The Discharger must maintain a log of any operational problems and maintenance
activities that may affect effluent quality or disposal si te operations and submit the
information to the Water Board with each quar terly report. Moni toring reports shall
include a summary of these activities, in cluding, but not limited to, the following.
 1. Any modifications or additions to the wastewater conveyance system, treatment
facilities, or disposal facilities;
2. Any major maintenance conducted on the wastewater conveyance system,
treatment facilities, or disposal facilities;
 3. Any major problems occurring in the wastewater conveyance system, treatment
facilities, or disposal facilities; and
CITY OF VICTORVILLE – 3 – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
PERCOLATION POND 14 NO. R6V-2014-0002 San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001


4. The calibration of any wastew ater flow measuring devices.
II. MONTHLY MONITORING and REPORTING
 The Discharger must submit monthly self m onitoring reports. T he monthly monitoring
reports are due the 28th day of the following month . Each report must include the
information specified below.
 A. Facility Monitoring
 1. The total volume of wastewater into the IWTP for each day, in million gallons.

2. The average daily flow rate into the IWTP for the month, in m illions of gallons per
day (MGD).
 3. The maximum daily flow in to the IWTP for the month.
 4. The total volume of wastewater di scharged to pond No. 14 per day, in MGD.
 5. All analytical data collect ed for the month must be pl aced in tabular data summary
tables for influent, effluent, recycled water and groundwater quality.
 6. A copy of original laborato ry data sheets must be included.
 7. A summary of operational problems and ma intenance activities affecting effluent
discharges or compliance with waste discharge requirements, and proposed
corrective measures, if needed, and a schedule for completion.
 8. Results of monthly visual inspections at the IWTP and pond No. 14. If there is
nothing noteworthy for a given mont h, then that must be noted.
 9. Results of weekly freeboard measurements (distance from t he top of the lowest part
of the dike to the wastewater surfac e in a pond) in pond No. 14 to the nearest
quarter (¼) of a foot. A pe rmanent monitoring station must be located at the lowest
surveyed elevation of the pond No. 14 dike. If pond No. 14 does not contain wastewater, indicate that it is empty.
 10. Flow measuring devices must be inst alled to measure and record influent and
effluent and recycled use flows. Flow m easurement devices shall be calibrated
annually or as needed. Calibration results s hall be included in the annual report.
 11. The Discharger may collect additional sa mples than are required, but must provide
the data from all samples collected and anal yzed. If the data is collected for
operational purposes and done by a non-certified laboratory, then that detail must be
noted.

CITY OF VICTORVILLE – 4 – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
PERCOLATION POND 14 NO. R6V-2014-0002 San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001

B. Influent Monitoring

Representative samples of influent shall be collected and analyzed to determine the
magnitude of the fo llowing parameters.
Table 1 – Influent Monitoring
Parameter Units Sample Type Frequency
pH¹ pH units Grab 1 time/month
Electrical
Conductivity¹ micromhos/cm Grab 1 time/month
¹Field test accomplished by site personnel with a di rect read instrument calibrated per manufacturer’s
specifications.
C. Effluent Monitoring

1. Representative samples of treated e ffluent discharged shall be collected and
analyzed to determine the magnitude of the following parameters.
Table 2 – Plant E ffluent Monitoring
Constituent1 Units Sample Type Frequency
BOD2 mg/L 24-hour
Composite Quarterly
TSS2 mg/L 24 hour
Composite Quarterly
Ammonia-N mg/L Grab 1 time/month
Nitrite-N mg/L Grab 1 time/month
Nitrate-N mg/L Grab 1 time/month
Total Kjeldahl
Nitrogen mg/L Grab 1 time/month
Total Nitrogen mg/L Calculated value 1 time/2 weeks
pH3 pH units Grab 1 time/month –
field
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L 24-hour
Composite 1 time/2 weeks
Fixed Dissolved
Solids (FDS) mg/L Grab 1 time/month
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab 1 time/month-field
Methyl Blue Active
Substances mg/L Grab 1 time/month
Boron mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct
Fluoride mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Chloride mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Sodium mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Sulfate mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Sulfide mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Total Phenols mg/L as C 6H5OH Grab Apr & Oct

1 Constituents in bold have effluent limits.
2 Monitoring for BOD and TSS shall be effective when 50% of the total domestic effluent flow is reached .
3 Field test accomplished by site personnel with a direct r ead instrument calibrated per manufacturer’s specifications.
CITY OF VICTORVILLE – 5 – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
PERCOLATION POND 14 NO. R6V-2014-0002 San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001

2. For parameters in bold in Table 2, which have specified numerical effluent
limitations, state whether or not compli ance was achieved. Compliance with the
TDS effluent limitation will be assessed ann ually as described below in section
IV.B.9.b.

3. Each monthly report shall state the fracti on of domestic and indust rial waste treated.
When the fraction of domestic waste treated reaches 50%, then effluent monitoring
for BOD/TSS shall begin as specified.

D. Recycled Water Production Monitoring
 1. Representative samples of recycled wa ter quality shall be collected and analyzed
after disinfection for the parameters listed below.
Table 3 - Recycled Water Monitoring
Parameter Station Units Sample
Type Analytical
Method Minimum
Frequency
Flow to each reuse area Pump
Station MG/month Continuous SCADA¹ Daily
Turbidity Final
Effluent Station NTU Continuous EPA 180 –
field Daily
Total
Coliform Final
Effluent
Station MPN/100ml Grab SM 9221 Daily
UV Dose Final
Effluent
Station mJ/cm2 Continuous SCADA¹ Daily
¹SCADA = Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system used to automatically monitor and adjust
plant performance and control
E. Recycled Water Use Area Monitoring

1. Weekly, each reuse area where recycled water is used shall be visually inspected to
verify compliance with use area requirements. The results shall be recorded in a log
book kept at the IWTP.
2. Monthly, provide a summa ry of weekly re-use area inspections. State whether
irrigation water use was at plant agronomic rates and how irrigation did not exceed
seasonal plant demand conforming to t he Recycled Water Use Operations and
Management Plan. For any reuse area or use area condition not in compliance with
the Order, provide a descrip tion and implementation sc hedule for correcting the
condition.
 3. For any recycled water use not under t he ownership or control of the VWD and
where the VWD supplies recycled water, th e VWD must obtain and report necessary
recycled water use information, unless that user has separate water recycling requirements.
CITY OF VICTORVILLE – 6 – MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
PERCOLATION POND 14 NO. R6V-2014-0002 San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360911001

4. Quarterly, provide:
a. the total amount of recycled water supplied,
b. the total number of recycl ed water reuse sites, and
c. the locations of those sites.

III. GROUNDWATER MONITORING
 Groundwater monitoring shall be conducted in Apr il and October of each year to establish:
(1) elevation contours and the direction of groundwater flow and (2) compliance with