Facility Information Summary
Facility Name
WDR Order Number
WDID Number
Report Type
Report Period
Date
Address
Contact Name
Contact Job Title
Contact Signature
Contact Phone
Contact Email
3.2.6 Modifications
This MRP may be modified at the discretion of the Water Board Executive Officer.
LOS ANGELES CSD - 35 - MONITORING AND REPORTING
Lancaster Water Reclamation Plant PROGRAM R6V -2022- 0023
Los Angeles County WDID No. 6B 190107017
3.3. Sampling and Analysis Plan
The Discharger must submit a revised, sampling and analysis plan (SAP) by
November 11, 2022 , for Water Board staff review and approval. The SAP must include
a detailed description of procedures and techniques for:
• Sample collection method, sample locations, including purging techniques, sampling equipment, and decontamination of sampling equipment,
• Measurement of static groundwater levels and depths of wells ,
• Groundwater well purging methods,
• Groundwater well sample collection methods,
• Sample preservation and shipment,
• Analytical methods and procedures,
• Chain of custody control,
• Quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) methods,
• Frequency of calibration for any onsite field equipment or flow meters, and
• Description of how onsite measurements are performed.
The Discharger must also keep the most recent version of the SAP at the plant and
accessible to personnel performing sampling and analyses. The SAP is subject to
review during the Water Board’s plant compliance inspections.
3.4. New Monitoring Wells
Pursuant to the CWC, section 13267, in the case that the Discharger identifies dry or
malfunctioning existing groundwater monitoring wells , the Discharger must submit to the
Water Board, work plans for repairs of an existing well or installin g additional or
replacement groundwater monitoring wells to establish the nature, extent, and depth of
polluted or degraded groundwater from historical facility discharges and to determine
compliance with the Board Order .
3.4.1 Time Schedule
New or repaired wells should be installed according to the time schedule described in
Table 21.
Table 21 – Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Time Schedule
Period Task
At le ast 90 days
before the installation of new or repair ed wells Submit a W ork Plan and implementation schedule for the
Executive Officer’s acceptance , proposing construction of new
groundwater monitoring wells or repair of existing groundwater
LOS ANGELES CSD - 36 - MONITORING AND REPORTING
Lancaster Water Reclamation Plant PROGRAM R6V -2022- 0023
Los Angeles County WDID No. 6B 190107017
Period Task
monitoring wells to provide for compliance monitoring at the
Facility
30 days after the
construction of new
or repair ed wells Notify Water Board staff of the completion of construction o f
new monitoring well s or repair of existing wells
60 days after the construction of new or repaired wells Submit an as-built Well Completion Report that must include all
initial analytical data and the C alifornia Department of Water
Resourc es Well Drillers Report s
3.4.2 Work Plan
Well construction must comply with California Well Standards, C alifornia Department of
Water Resources Bulletins 74- 81 and 74- 90. All appropriate local and county well
permits must be obtained prior to well installation . Wells must be completed in the first
encountered groundwater or nested as appropriate. The Work Plan must be signed by a
California licensed Civil Engineer or Professional Geologist and specify the following.
• Well locations
• Well design including casing diameter and material
• Proposed well screen interval, slot size, total depth
• Drilling method
• Waste handling and disposal
• Well development method
• Well sample purging methods
• Well sampling procedures
• Initial water quality constituent analyses to include all constituents in Section 2.9.
• Plan to collect a sufficient number of samples of existing groundwater wells to determine aquifer water quality and background water quality .
3.4.3 Well C ompletion Report
Well Completion Reports must include the following.
• Signature and stamp of a California l icensed Professional Civil Engineer or
Professional G eologist indicating that well installation was completed per the
proposed Work Plan and if any deviations occurred.
• Copies of all Well Completion Reports filed with the California Department of Water Resources in accordance with the CWC , section 13750 et seq. ( Form No. DWR 188
REV. 11 -97).
LOS ANGELES CSD - 37 - MONITORING AND REPORTING
Lancaster Water Reclamation Plant PROGRAM R6V -2022- 0023
Los Angeles County WDID No. 6B 190107017
• Driller’s report and lithology sample records .
• Geophysical and borehole logs with cross sections.
• Initial water quality sample results, including the drillers report, lithology samples
records, field data sheets and all laboratory analytical reports.
• Well survey completed and signed by a C alifornia licensed surveyor indicating the
well coordinate locations, top of casing or measuring point elevations and ground
surface elevations.
• Copies of well as -built drawings .
• A map showing the locations of all monitoring wells at the site, any nearby water supply wells, and other plant site features including head works, land ownership
boundaries, treatment areas , sludge drying beds, and storage reservoirs .
• Initial groundwater elevation contour map showing the locations of all monitoring
wells at the site, nearby water supply wells, and static groundwater elevations.
• Groundwater iso- concentration plume maps for nitrate and TDS.
3.5. Monthly Self -Monitoring Reports
Beginning with the report covering monitoring activities in August 2022, m onthly self-
monitoring reports are due on the 30
th day of the second month following the end of
each monthly monitoring period. This schedule is presented in Table 1.
All data collected during the monitoring period must be reported. Where additional data are collected including more than minimum reporting requirements pursuant to the WDR,
that additional data must also be reported. The Discharger must analyze the following
types of data, as available:
• Septage received
• Influent treatment plant flow and sample results
• Effluent flow and sample results for Piute Ponds
• Recycled water delivered and sample results .
3.5.1 Compliance Assessment
Each self -monitoring report must state whether compliance was achieved for the
monitoring period. P rovide a written explanation for all numeric and narrative effluent
and