5. Description of the Facility
The treatment consists of convent ional screening and grit removal, an
influent lift station, two basins desi gned for the Parkson Biolac system, and
two circular clarifiers th at further treat the wastew ater prior to discharging
the effluent into on-site percolation basins.
The previously constructed micro -media plant (regulated under Order
R6V-2009-0036) was not operational bec ause it could not meet effluent
requirements and was never considered operational. The Facility was re-evaluated by Perc Water Corporati on who prepared an October 6, 2011,
turnaround proposal recommending Faci lity upgrades to adequately treat
the entire wastewater flow. The Design Summary Technical Memorandum, produced by Pace
Advanced Water Engineering for the Discharger, provides detailed information on the Facility upgrades being completed at the Facility. The
following is a list of treatment proce sses and equipment that the Facility will
have once the upgrades are accomplished. (a) Influent head works will cons ist of three trains,
Bar screens that need to be manually cleaned Mechanical bar screens 10 mm size New mechanical bar screens 6 mm si ze (will become primary flow
pattern)
(b) Grit Removal – (2) Vortex chambers in parallel. (c) Lift station with a capacity of greater than 4 MGD – (4) pumps in
parallel.
(d) Primary/Secondary treatment - Bi olac Basins – (2) in parallel,
repurposed with an increased capacity by increasing the pond operational depth of up to 14 feet (from 12 feet).
Adelanto Wastewater Treat ment 4 Board Order R6V-2013-0058
Facility WDID NO. 6B369805001 San Bernardino County
(e) Secondary Clarifiers – (2) 70 foot di ameter clarifiers that will operate in
parallel.
(f) Sludge Thickening – (2) existing former clarifiers reconfigured as
sludge thickeners.
(g) Sludge Dewatering – (2) centrifugal units. (h) Sludge Disposal – Temporarily st ored onsite in bins for offsite
composting disposal.
(i) Disposal – (4) percolation ponds (Nos. 1, 4, 5, and 9) with a portion of
the effluent to be used for onsite i ndustrial processes. The total
infiltration capacity of the ponds is estimated at 9 MGD.
(j) Filtration – (12) currently unused two-stage Dynasand filters that have
a capacity of 3.3 MGD and will remain onsite for potential future use to remove nitrogen from the effluent if needed.
(k) Disinfection – (1) chlorine contact basin with a current capacity of 3.5
MGD and will be available for potentia l future recycled water use.
(l) Emergency Storage – (2) existing percolation ponds (Nos. 2 and 3) will
be reconstructed as a single, lined emergency storage pond.
The basis of design, part of the ROWD, projected that the up-graded plant
will discharge effluent with estimated total nitrogen of 8.4 mg/L at a flow rate
of 4 MGD. The Design Summary Te chnical Memorandum (engineer of
record, James Mathews) estimates t hat the total nitrogen will be an average
of 8.3 mg/L at the same flow. The Discharger expects that the total nitrogen
limit established in Order No. R6V-2009- 0036, a 30 day mean of 10 mg/L of
total nitrogen will be met after completing plant upgrades.
 6. Authorized Disposal Area
This order authorizes treated wastewater to be disposed of into pond Nos.
1, 4, 5, and 9, as shown in Attachment B.
 7. Site Geology and Hydrology
The site is located on a broad Pleistocene alluvial fan sloping gently towards
the north and northwest. The 27-acre site is within the 98-square-mile
Fremont wash drainage area that dr ains generally to the northwest
eventually joining the Mojave River.
 8. Site

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated
noncompliance, does not stay any of the WDRs conditions.
 8. Property Rights
 The WDRs do not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges,
nor does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any infringement of federal, state or local laws or regulations.
STANDARD PROVISIONS SEPTEMBER 1, 1994
 - 3 –

9. Enforcement
 The California Water Code provides for civil liability and criminal penalties for violations
or threatened violations of the WDRs including imposition of civil liability or referral to
the Attorney General.
 10. Availability
 A copy of the WDRs shall be kept and maintained by the Discharger and be available
at all times to operating personnel.
 11. Severability
 Provisions of the WDRs are severable. If any provision of the requirements is found
invalid, the remainder of the requirements shall not be affected.
 12. Public Access
 General public access shall be effectively excluded from treatment and disposal
facilities.
 13. Transfers
 Providing there is no material change in the operation of the facility, this Order may be
transferred to a new owner or operation. The owner/operator must request the transfer in writing and receive written approval from the Regional Board’s Executive Officer.
 14. Definitions
 a. "Surface waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, live
streams, either perennial or ephemeral, which flow in natural or artificial water courses and natural lakes and artificial impoundments of waters. "Surface waters" does not include artificial water courses or impoundments used exclusively for wastewater disposal.
 b. "Ground waters" as used in this Order, include, but are not limited to, all
subsurface waters being above atmospheric pressure and the capillary fringe of these waters.
 15. Storm Protection
 All facilities used for collection, transport, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste shall
be adequately protected against overflow, washout, inundation, structural damage or a significant reduction in efficiency resulting from a storm or flood having a recurrence interval of once in 100 years.


CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
LAHONTAN REGION

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 2013-0058
WDID NO. 6B369805001

FOR

ADELANTO PUBLIC UTILITY AUTHORITY
ADELANTO DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY

________________________San Ber nardino County__ ______________________

I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

A. Effective date
This monitoring and reporting program (MRP) is being required pursuant to
Water Code section 13267 and is effectiv e on the date as specified by the
Water Board’s Exec utive Officer.

B. Overview of Reports Required
The Discharger, each year must provide twelve (12) Monthly Monitoring
Reports and one (1) Annual Report. The monthly monitoring reports are
due on the thirtieth day of the following month. Each monthly report must
provide information on: (1) general operat ions, (2) operational problems, (3)
compliance assessment, and (4) data for constituents as specified below.

 C. Certified Cover Letter
The Discharger must use Attachment 1 as a cover letter, or a cover letter
containing the same information, for a ll reports provided to the Water Board
associated with this MRP.

D. General Provisions
 The Discharger must comply with the “General Provisions for Monitoring
and Reporting” dated September 1, 1994, which is made part of this
Monitoring and Reporting Program as Attachment 2.

E. Sampling and Analysis Plan
By December 1, 2013 , pursuant to General Prov ision No. 1.d. of the
General Provisions for Monitoring and Reporting, the Discharger must
submit to the Water Board a Sampli ng and Analysis Plan (SAP). Also, a
copy of the sampling and analysis plan must be maintained at the Facility
and available for inspection. The SAP mu st include a detailed description of
procedures and techniques for:
ADELANTO PUBLIC UTILITY AUTHORIT Y -2- MONITORING AND REPORTING
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PROGRAM NO. 2013-0058
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B369805001

1. Sample collection, sample loca tions, including purging techniques,
sampling equipment, and decontami nation of sampling equipment;
2. Ground water well purging methods and sample collection methods (the
procedure should be consistent with the Guidance Manual for Ground
Water Investigations, revised 2008, by Cal EPA Department of Toxic
Substances Control or consistent with USEPA, Ground-Water Sampling
Guidelines for Superfund and RCRA Project Managers , or subsequent
revision);.
3. Sample preservation and shipment; 4. Analytical methods and procedures; 5. Chain of custody control; 7. Quality assurance/qua lity control (QA/QC);
8. Frequency of calibration of any ons ite equipment (pH meter, electrical
conductivity meter, flow meter); and

9. Description of how ons ite measurements are done.

II. MONTHLY MONITORING REPORTS
The Discharger must submit monthly self monitoring reports. The monthly
monitoring reports are due on the thirtiet h day of the followin g month. Each
report must include the in formation specified below.

A. Facility Monitoring
1. The total volume of wastewater flo wing into the Facility for each day, in
million gallons.
2. The average daily flow rate, in MG D, of domestic wastewater into the
Facility calculated for each month.
3. The maximum daily flow into the Facility per month.
4. All analytical data collected for t he month must be placed in tabular data
summary tables for influent, effl uent, and ground water quality.
5. All original data sheets from an analytical laboratory data must be
included in the monitoring report.
6. A report of any operational pr oblems and maintenance activities
affecting effluent discharges or compliance with waste discharge
requirements, and proposed correct ive measures, if needed, and a
schedule for completion.
7. Reports of monthly visual inspecti ons of the Facility, including but not
limited to, the liners of Biolac basins and emergency storage pond. If
there is nothing noteworthy for a given month, then that must be noted.
8. Report weekly freeboard measurem ents from each percolation pond,
emergency reservoir, and Biolac Basin. Provide the measurement to the
nearest quarter (¼) of a foot.

ADELANTO PUBLIC UTILITY AUTHORIT Y -3- MONITORING AND REPORTING
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PROGRAM NO. 2013-0058
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B369805001

9. The Discharger may collect additi onal samples than are required, but
must provide the data from all sa mples collected and analyzed. If the
data is collected for operational purposes and done by a non-certified
laboratory, then that detail must be noted.

B. Influent Monitoring
The influent must be sampled for the following constituents, shown below,
and collected at the frequency as specified below.

 Table 1. Influent M onitoring Constituents
Constituents Units Sample type Minimum
sampling
frequency
Electrical Conductivity1 µmho/cm Grab one per week
pH1 pH Grab one per week
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) (5-day at 20°C) mg/L 24-hour
composite one per week
Total suspended solids mg/L 24-hour
composite one per week
 1. Field test accomplished by site personnel with a direct read instrument
calibrated per manufacturer’s specifications.
 All other samples above must be conducted by a laboratory certified in
California and is following either an EPA method or accepted standard method

ADELANTO PUBLIC UTILITY AUTHORIT Y -4- MONITORING AND REPORTING
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PROGRAM NO. 2013-0058
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B369805001

C. Effluent Monitoring
The effluent must be sampled for t he following constituents and at the
required frequency as specified below.

 Table 2. Effluent Moni toring Constituents
 Constituents Unit s Sample type Minimum
sampling frequency
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) (5-day at 20°C) mg/L 24-hour composite 1 per week
Total suspended solids mg/L 24-hour composite 1 per week
Dissolved Oxygen1 mg/L Grab 1 per week
pH1 mg/L Grab 1 per week
Electrical Conductivity1 µmho/cm Grab 1 per week
Total Nitrogen mg/L Calculated 1 per week
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab 2 per month
Methylene Blue Active
Substances mg/L Grab 2 per month
Boron mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
Fluoride mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
Chloride mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
Sodium mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
Sulfate mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
Sulfide mg/L 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
Total Phenols mg/L as
C6H5OH 24-hr composite Apr & Oct2
 1.Field test accomplished by site personnel with a direct read instrument
calibrated per manufacturer’s specifications.
 2 For the samples collected in the months of April and October, the results
must be provided in the June and December monthly reports, respectively.
 All samples other than Dissolved Oxy gen, pH, and Electrical Conductivity
must be conducted by a laboratory certified in California and following either an EPA method or accepted standard method.

D. Ground Water Monitoring
1. The ground water monitoring must be conducted in the months of April
and October. The results of the ground water monitoring must be
provided with the monthly monitoring r eport in the months of June (for
April) and December (for Oct ober). The following ground water
monitoring wells must be sampled and are shown on Attachment 3:
MW-1A, MW-2, MW-3, MW-4, MW-5 , MW6, MW-7, MW-8, MW-9, and
MW-10. Ground water wells must be sampled for the following
constituents.

ADELANTO PUBLIC UTILITY AUTHORIT Y -5- MONITORING AND REPORTING
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PROGRAM NO. 2013-0058
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B369805001

 Table 3. Ground Water Sampling
Constituents Units Sample type Instructions for
frequency of
collection
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg /L Grab Apr & Oct
Chlorides mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Sulfate mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Boron mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
Fluoride mg/L Grab Apr & Oct
 All samples above must be conducted by a laboratory certified in California
and following either an EPA method or accepted standard method.

2. The Discharger must measure and record the following “field
constituents” at the time of sample collection:

Table 4. Ground Water Field Measurements
Constituents Units
Electrical Conductivity µmho/cm
pH pH units
Temperature °C
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L

The final field constituents at the ti me of sample collection must be
recorded in a table and reported with the labora tory analytical data.

3. The Discharger must measure, record, and report the depth to the
ground water during each ground wa ter sampling event at each
monitoring well sampled.
4. Monitoring reports must include a map showing well locations, ground
water elevation contours with respect to mean sea level or local datum
and tables summarizing the final field and laboratory analytical data. The
Discharger must coordinat e with the US Air Force to obtain relevant
recent ground water elevation data from adjacent former George Air
Force Base monitoring wells and incor porate those data, to the extent
feasible into ground water potentiome tric surface maps of the Upper
Aquifer.
E. Review of Effluent and Ground Water Sample Results
1. The Discharger must review, eval uate, and report the effluent data
collected for violations with respect effluent limits in the Board Order.
2. The Discharger must review, eval uate, and report the ground water data
collected and identify any condition t hat may have violated a