Facility Description
Upon completion of plant upgrades, t he Facility will be comprised of three components:
(1) collection system and head works, (2) secondary treatment system and (3)
percolation ponds. The Facility was originally a series of evaporati on/oxidation ponds
constructed with compacted native soil bottom s. As the population grew, additional
ponds were added until today there are 1 6 evaporation/oxidation ponds , although they
are numbered 1 through 15 and 17 . Currently , all influent is first discharged into one of
the ponds which serves as a treatment pond with aerators before going to the
remaining evaporation/oxidation ponds .
In 200 7, the Discharger received a grant from the State Water Board to construct a
0.50 MGD tertiary wastewater treatment plant to produce recycled water that operated
from 2011 to 2015 , after which the plant was placed in reserve status because the
Discharger had no recycled water customers, and therefore did not complete an
Engineering Report nor obtained water recycling requirements to produce and deliver
recycled water. The Discharger proceeded to shut down the tertiary treatment plant and
diverted all wast ewater to the evaporation /oxidation ponds.
As a result of findings and time s chedules contained in Board Order No.
R6V-2015 -0069 to address pond leakage, the Discharger proposes to re -activate the
secondary treatment train of the 0.5 0 MGD plant, not operate the tertiary components,
and construct a larger, similar secondary treatment plant. Thus, instead of producing
tertiary treated recycled water, the Facility will produce secondary, denitrified effluent
and convert the two newest oxidation/evaporati on Ponds 15 and 17, located south of
Rosamond CSD - 5- Board Order No . R6V -2019 -0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID N o. 6B150112001
KernCounty
the treatment facility, into a series of percolation ponds for effluent disposal , as shown
on Attachment B . The upgraded Facility will be comprised of the following components
and its treatment flow process illustrated in Attachment C .
a. Collection System and Head Works – To achieve optimal treatment quality , the
plant has a design flow rate of 1.27 MGD and i t is estimated that the average daily
wastewater flow will be 1.18 MGD . The headworks consists of the influent pump
station, bar screen, and a grit removal/classification system. The bar screen is
operated as a traveling cha in-and-link system that removes large solids. Screenings
are removed and disposed offsite periodically. Influent is pu mped through a vortex
grit chamber at grade. Grit slurry collected in the vortex grit chamber is pumped to a
vortex grit separator and classifier for dewatering.
b. Septage Receiving Station and Holding Pond – Prior to Facility upgrades, septage
was deliver ed to evaporation/oxidation Pond 11. As part of the upgrade process, t he
southwest side of existing Pond 11 will be converted into a septage receiving
station. Septage from the receiving station is passed through a coarse screen to
remove large solids befo re proceeding to an 80 -mil high density polyethylene
(HDPE ) lined septage holding pond. The aerated and mixed septage holding pond
will contain approximately 90,000 gallons of septage waste and have a top surface
area of 4,950 square feet at freeboard. Flows from the septage holding pond will
discharge to the headworks at a controlled rate where they will mix with incoming
influent and continue with the treatment process .
c. Secondary Treatment Plant – Proposed upgrades to the treatment plant will provide
secondary treatment that feeds influent from the headworks into two Biolac aeration
basins and two secondary clarifiers. Biolac is a propriety technology using a lined
basin , or pond , with a series of suspended aerators for extended aeration, activated
sludge treatment . Denitrification is achieved by creating a series of oxic and anoxic
zones within the basin. The Discharger is re -adjusting the flow capacity of the
existing Biolac basin to treat 0.35 MGD and constructing a new Biolac basin to treat
0.92 MGD for a combined total design flow of 1.27 MGD . The existing secondary
clarifier has a 45 -foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet while the new secondary
clarifier will have a 65-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet.
d. Evaporation/Oxidation Ponds – The existing 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds will be
used until upgrades are completed , tested, and successfully placed online. Some of
these ponds will be repurposed to serve as percolation ponds, s eptage receiving
pond, and emergency overflow pond. The remaining unuse d ponds will then be
abandoned . After sludge in these lagoons is sufficiently dry, all remaining sludge in
the lagoon bottoms will be removed and hauled offsite for proper disposal as
authorized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency ( USEPA) .
e. Solids Handling – Waste s ludge will be disposed into six new lined drying beds and
five of the six existing lined drying beds. One of the existing six beds will need to be
removed to make room for a new secondary clarifier. The six new beds will be
slightly larger to make up for the area lost by removing one of the existing beds.
Overall , the volume of the total beds will be doubl e the volume of the current six
Rosamond CSD - 6- Board Order No . R6V -2019 -0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID N o. 6B150112001
KernCounty
existing beds. The existing beds are lined with 60 -mil HDPE and the new beds will
be lined with 80 -mil HDPE . Dried sludge (biosolids) are hauled offsite for
disposal/reuse at an authorized reuse or disposal site. Disposal o f solids at the
treatment/disposal site is not authorized.
f. Percolation Pond System – Denitrified, undisinfected secondary effluent will be sent
to Pond s 15 and 17, which will be modified into three percolation ponds each with a
depth of seven feet. Provisions have been made to add a potential fourth
percolation pond, if needed. The three percolation ponds will be operated on a
3-month rotation, one in service and two out of service . After drying, the pond
bottoms will be scarified to improve percolation r ates.
g. Recycled Water Treatment – The facility will not produce recycled water or have
recycled water treatment requirements .
h. Effluent Quality - The upgraded plant will produce denitrified, undisinfected,
secondary effluent that will be discharged to three new percolation ponds. The
proposed effluent quality after the plant is upgrade d is described in the table below.
Proposed Treatment Plant Effluent Quality
Constituent Concentration
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) (5-day at 20°C) 20 mg/L
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 16 mg/L
Total Inorganic Nitrogen (T IN)1 < 10 mg/L
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) 480 mg/L
1Total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) includes ammonia plus nitrate and nitrite .
9. Authorized Disposal Site s
This Board Order authorizes the discharge of primary effluent to the existing
evaporation/oxidation ponds until the time schedule specified in this Board Order
requires discharge of denitrified, undisinfected secondary treated effluent to three
percolation ponds that were part of Pond s 15 and 17 prior to rehabilitation /construction
of the percolation ponds .
10. Recycled Water Exception
As stated in CCR, title 22, section 60303, recycled water requirements do not apply to
the use of recycled water onsite at a water recycling plant, or wastewater treatment
plant, provided access by the public to the area of onsi te recycled water use is
restricted.
Discharge to unauthorized locations are prohibited by this Board Order.
11. Recycled Water
Recycled water treatment or use is not authorized by this Board Order.
Rosamond CSD - 7- Board Order No . R6V -2019 -0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID N o. 6B150112001
KernCounty
12. Industrial Pretreatment Program
An industrial pretreatm ent program is not required by this Board Order; however, the
MRP requires annual reporting of the Discharger’s industrial pretreatment program
activities .
13. Land Uses
The Facility is located in Kern County approximately four miles northeast of the
intersection of State Route 138 (SR -138) and SR -14 in the community of Rosamond
and just north of the Los Angeles County line. Commercial and r esidential areas are
located to the northwest , west, and southwest . To the east of the Facility is Edwards Air
Force Base, containing Rosamond Dry Lake. The Kern County, Rosamond Specific
Plan, designates the Facility land use as “Other Facilities.” Land immediately west of
the Facility is zoned for “Heavy Industrial ” use.
14. Site Topography
The natural ground -surface at the Facility vicinity is flat and slopes in an easterly
direction toward Rosamond Dry Lake at a gradient of approximately 0.005 feet/foot.
Rosamond Dry Lake is located approximately 2.5 miles east of the site.
15. Climatology
The Antelope Valley, in which the Facility is located, has an arid climate characterized
by infrequent rainfall , cold winters and hot summers, and low relative humidity . The
mean annual temperature is 80.6 degrees (°) Fahrenheit (F) an d ranges from a high of
110° F in the summer to a low of 12° F in the winter. Precipitation in the vicinity of the
Facility averages 4 inches annually. The maximum expected precipitation for a
24-hour, 100 -year frequency design storm event is approximate ly 3.81 inches per hour.
16. Site Geology
The Antelope Valley is situated within the northwest portion of the larger Mojave Desert
geomorphic province. This province is a wedge -shaped tectonic block bounded to the
southwest by the San Andreas Fault Zone and on the northwest by the Garlock Fault
Zone. The San Andreas and Garlock Fault Zones are approximately 20 miles
southwest and 22 miles northwest of the Facility, respectively. There are no known
active (Holocene -age) faults beneath the Facility or within a 5 -mile radius of the Facility.
The clos est fault is Willow Springs fault located approximately 8.5 miles to the
north west of the Facility.
The geologic units beneath the Facility consist of the following, from oldest to youngest.
a. Pre-Tertiary plutonic igneous and metamorphic rocks together fo rm the
crystalline basement rock beneath the site at depths ranging up to 3,000 feet
below ground surface (bgs). They are largely granitic intrusions typical of the
Sierra Nevada Batholith of late Jurassic or Cretaceous age and range in
Rosamond CSD - 8- Board Order No . R6V -2019 -0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID N o. 6B150112001
KernCounty
composition from ho rnblende diorite to granite .
b. The Tertiary Tropico Group overlies the basement rock and consists of interbeds
of shales, limestones, and coarse fluvial sedimentary rocks with basalts and
pyroclastic deposits. The Tropico Group has a maximum exposed thickness of
2,800-feet in the vicini ty of the site .
c. Overlying the Tropic Group is Quaternary -age older and recent alluvium
composed of unconsolidated and poorly sorted sands, silts, clays, and gravels .
Based on bore hole log data collected from the Facility, the alluvial sediments are
in excess of 90 -feet thick beneath the site. The wastewater ponds are
constructed overtop the recent alluvium.
17. Site Hydrogeology and Groundwater Quality
The Facility overlies the Antelope Valley Groundwater Basin. Groundwater beneath
the Facility occurs in the alluvium at an average depth of approximately 60 to 80 feet
bgs. The depth to groundwater beneath the site has generally decreased since
monitoring began in 1988 and flows in an eas terly direction towards Rosamond Dry
Lake .
The Discharger has been monitoring groundwater quality beneath the Facility since
1988. Elevated concentrations of TDS, chloride, sulfate, and nitrate have been
detected in several groundwater monitoring wells. Over the last 17 years, TDS
concentrations in the groundwater have ranged from 590 to 2,800 milligrams per liter
(mg/L). Similarly, chloride concentrations in the groundwater have ranged from 15 to
650 mg/L, and sulfate concentrations in the groundwater have ranged from 100 to
550 mg/L. Nitrate concentrations in the groundwater have ranged from non-detect up to
20 mg/L.
18. Site Hydrology
The Facility is within the Lancaster Hydrologic Area of the Antelope Valley Hydrologic
Unit. All water that enters the valley infiltrates into the groundwater, evaporates, or
flows overland eventually toward one of three dry lakes: Rosamond Dry Lake ,
Buckhorn Dry Lake, or Rogers Dry Lake .
19. Site Stormwater Management
Stormwater protection at the Facility is primarily accomplished through drainage control
based on the following objectives: protection from run -on; minimize infiltration of
precipitation into the waste; minimize exposure of pollutants to precipitation; manage
run-off to minimize erosion and sedimentation; and minimize offsite migration of
stormwater. To achieve these objectives, the Discharger implements structural and
non-structural Best Management Practices (BMPs) to mitigate potential pollution of
stormwater discha rges and performs site compliance inspections to evaluate the
effectiveness of the BMPs. The Discharger will continue to implement BMPs and
perform inspections throughout the use of the Facility.
Rosamond CSD - 9- Board Order No . R6V -2019 -0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID N o. 6B150112001
KernCounty
This Order requires prohibitions, limitations, and provision s for stormwater and non -
stormwater discharges at the Facility to protect both g roundwater and surface water
quality.
20. Lahontan Basin Plan
The Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan for the Lahontan Region (Basin
Plan), which became effective on March 31, 1995. Subsequent amendments to the
Basin Plan were adopted. This Board Order implements the Basin Plan, as amended.
21.