Description of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
Treatment processes consist of screening, grit chambers, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, aeration basins, secondary clarification, cloth media filtration, and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection. Solids undergo thickening, anaerobic digestion,
dewatering, and on- site storage until transported off -site for fuel, land application, or
composting. Prior to UV disinfection, wastewater may be diverted to percolation
ponds on- site that are regulated under Board Order No. R6V-2012- 0058. Remaining
effluent is disinfected by the UV system and either delivered to recycled water users or discharged to the Mojave River.
1. Screening and Grit Chamber
Influent wastewater undergoes screening (two influent channels) through bar screens, a.k.a. “aquascreens ,” prior to two parallel, aerated grit chambers. Debris
from the bar screens is collected and disposed of in a municipal landfill. Grit that
is removed passes through one of two hydrocyclones operated in parallel, and
the separated solids are hauled off -site for disposal. The water removed from the
hydrocyclones flows back to the grit chamber. For flow equalization, influent
wastewater can be diverted to Equalization Basin 3 (EQ3). During peak flow,
primary effluent can be diverted to Equalization Basin 1 and/or 2 (EQ1, EQ2).
2. Primary Sedimentation
The facility has eight primary clarifiers. The primary clarifiers are equipped with helix skimmers that remove floating scum. Settled solids and scum from the primary clarifiers are pumped to anaerobic di gesters.
3. Aeration Basins
From the primary clarifiers, wastewater flow is split among 12 aerations basins. In November 2015, the Discharger completed equipment maintenance and
upgrades to the air delivery system including a new diffuser system for more
efficient cycling of anoxic and anaerobic conditions and larger air pipe headers for
increased air delivery to the basins. Several dissolved oxygen probes are located
throughout the aeration basins and are used for monitoring process conditions.
The aeration basins are configured to allow for recirculation within the chambers
to provide extended treatment. Effluent from the aeration basins flows through a
mixed liquor channel that is equipped with a scum trough.
4. Secondary Clarifiers
Wastewater in the mixed liqu or channel flows to one of 10 secondary clarifiers for
solids settling. The Facility preferentially uses five newer, larger clarifiers. During
VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R6V -2020 -0028
VICTOR VALLEY REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102822


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7 high flows, five older, smaller clarifiers are used on an as -needed basis. Return
activated sludge is pumped to the aeration basins. Waste activated sludge is
pumped to a dissolved air flotation thickener (DAFT).
5. Cloth Media Filtration
Following secondary clarification, wastewater flows to a chamber formerly used
for polymer addition. Although the Facility does not r outinely add polymer , they
have the capability to do so at this location. The Facility employs two Aqua Diamond filtration units operated in parallel. The filtration units provide cloth
media filtration and are equipped with a travelling bridge backwash component.
Effluent from the filtration units may be diverted to the percolation ponds for disposal or may undergo further UV treatment for use as recycled water under Board Order
No. R6V -2003- 0028 or for discharge to the Mojave River under this NPDES permit
(CA0102822).
6. UV Disinfection
An enclosed building contains the UV disinfection units. In the event of power
failure, the Facility maintains backup power for the UV system or may
alternatively discharge wastewater to t he percolation ponds under Board Order
No. R6V -2012- 0058 . Following UV disinfection, wastewater may be discharged to
the Mojave River at Discharge Point 001.
7. Solids Treatment and Disposal
Waste activated sludge from the sub -regional wastewater treatment plants and
fats, oils, and greases ( FOG ) collected from various entities, such as restaurants,
is trucked in and fed to one of two DAFTs. Waste activated sludge from clarifiers is also pumped to the DAFTs. Polymer is added to sludge at the DAFT s for
improved gas formation. Thickened sludge from the DAFTs as well as sludge
from primary treatment is pumped to five anaerobic digesters. From the digesters,
sludge is pumped to two sludge lagoons, then is dewatered by gravity belt
thickener, then transferred to soil -cement lined solar drying beds.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – This section is not applicable
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to CWC, article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to the federal
Clean Water Act (CWA), section 402, implementing regulations adopted by the U nited
States Environmental Protection Agency (U SEPA) and CWC, chapter 5.5, division 7
(commencing with section 13370). It serves as an NPDES permit , authorizing the
Discharger to discharge into waters of the United States at the discharge location described in Table 2 subject to the WDRs in this Order .
B. California Environmental Quality Act
This action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt fr om the provisions of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA, Public Resources Code, sections 21100, chapter 3 et seq.), pursuant to CWC, section 13389. Requirements to satisfy CEQA for the use of
recycled water are addressed in the separate orders authorizing the use of recycled water.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan . The Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control
Plan for the Lahontan Region (hereinafter Basin Plan) on March 31, 1995, and as
amended. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality
VICTOR VALLEY WASTEWATER RECLAMATION AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R6V -2020 -0028
VICTOR VALLEY REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0102822


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-14 objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve those
objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. In addition, the Basin Plan implements State Water Board Resolution No. 88- 63, which establishes state
policy that all waters, with certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or domestic supply (MUN). The Basin Plan beneficial uses applicable to the Upper Mojave River are as follows:
Table F-5. Surface Water Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Discharge
Point