FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, a wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal system , and provides service to a population of approximately 602 individuals
located in the City of Niland . The Facility is located in SW 1/4 of Section 9, T11S,
R14E, SBB&M28. The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant which is 0.50 MGD . The discharge from the
Facility consists of disinfected equivalent to secondary treated wastewater .
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
Treatment consists of headworks including a manual bar screen and a lift pump
station, three lined ponds connected in series (Ponds 1, 2, and 3), each with two
aeration units for aerated stabilization, and contact chlorination using sodium
28San Bernardino Base & Meridian
NILAND COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R7-2025 -0017
NILAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104451
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE Thypochlorite followed by dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
The plant directs overflow discharge from the headwork s to an emergency overflow
basin, located parallel to the aeration pond. A separate groundwater pump station,
located adjacent to the influent lift pump station, was designed to lower the water
level under and around the aeration basins to prevent the liner from “pop” up due to
infiltrating water when a basin is being emptied for cleaning or maintenance.
Accumulated biosolids are dredged from the lagoons and from the chlorination
chamber and disposed of on drying beds. Dried solids are analyzed prior to removal
off-site for disposal at a landfill.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to the “R” Drain .
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on November
7, 2024 , that there are planned improvements at the Facility during the upcoming
permit term including rehabilitation of the wastewater treatment plant facilities (i.e.,
liner for ponds, disinfection system, and valves), construction of
evaporation/ infiltration ponds to phase out the NPDES discharge and convert to a
Waste Discharge Requirements permit for onsite discharge to land . Existing
underground and gravity sewer pipelines are scheduled for upgrades to eliminate
any infiltration.
3.