FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 45,000
individuals located in the City of El Centro . The permitted maximum daily flow limitation
is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant which is 8.0 MGD .
The Facility is located in Section 39, T15S, R13E, SBB&M22. The discharge from the
Facility consists of disinfected secondary treated wastewater .
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
Wastewater from the community is pumped from seven lift stations to a final lift
station, from which it is pumped to preliminary treatment, where solids are removed
by an automatic bar screen. Manual injection of ferric chloride and polymer is added
to the process at the main lift station to remove metals from the wastewater.
Wastewater is then directed through the plant’s primary clarifiers. Secondary
treatment is achieved through biological treatment via six aeration basins and
secondary clarification thr ough four final clarifiers. The wastewater is then
disinfected using ultraviolet (UV) light before being discharged to Central Main Drain.
Primary sludge generated from the primary clarifiers is pumped to anaerobic
digesters. Secondary sludge generated from the secondary clarifiers is processed
through a gravity belt thickener, with the de -watered sludge sent to the anaerobic
digesters. Following anaerobic digestion, sludge is directed through a belt press,
dried to approximately 90 percent solids in drying beds and then land -applied at
locations in Arizona. The Facility maintains an emergency storage basin for use
during cleaning of the UV di sinfection channel or plant malfunction . This emergency
storage basin is regulated under WDR Order R7 -2013 -0037. Collected wastewater
in the emergency storage basin can be pumped to the primary clarifiers if necessary ;
however, it is typically allowed to evaporate .
22San Bernardino Base & Meridian
CITY OF EL CENTRO ORDER R7-2024 -0041
EL CENTRO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104426
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE TWastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Central Main Drain , a water
of the United States , and tributary to the Alamo River .
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on December
14, 2023 , that there are planned improvements at the Facility during the upcoming
permit term which consist of replacement of aeration blowers , replacement of UV
units , replacement of secondary clarifiers , and p rimary treatment area improvements .
3.