Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
8. Wastewater influent enters the plant headworks building via a 20 -inch s anitary sewer . The
wastewater flow is split into two channels, one for bypass (normally closed) and the other
with an automatic bar screen and compactor. The bar screen deposits the screenings into
a roll-off dumpster that is taken to the Combat Center Landfill for disposal regular ly.
Wastewater then flows through a 24 -inch Palmer Bowlus flume for flow measurement. A
flow meter display is housed outside the headworks building in a steel cabinet. The
headworks building has an active ventilation system that replaces the air in the room
several times an hour and pushes the air through a biological air filter for odor removal.
The odor filter consists of w ood chips that are kept moist with recycled water.
9. From the flow meter, wastewater is routed to Pond 1. Pond 1 is a 13-acre, 5-foot deep
pond , with a 2.5-acre front-end, 13-foot deep ferme ntation pit that has a designed
hydraulic residence time of over 3 days . Wastewa ter enters the pond at the end with the
fermentation pit. S olids settle out in the fermentation pit and the waste water continues to
flow through the rest of the pond. The fermentation pit allows for the accumulation and
storage of biosolids in an anaerobic environment. Anaerobic bacteria decompose and
stabilize the biosolids and release methane, hydrogen sulfide, and other volatile organ ics.
Digestion gases are broken down in the aerobic wate r layer at the top of the pond where
oxygen concentration is enhanced by mechanical aera tion.
10. Wastew ater from the fermenta tion pit is spread across the width of Pond 1 via a flow
distribution pipe and then flows longitudinally through the pond . Four mechanical aerators
provide oxygen to the top layer of the pond. The remainder of Pond 1 outside the
fermentation pit provides secondary biological treatment. The pond is designed to remove
approximatel y 75 percent of the influent Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) by rapid
growth of algae and concurrent production of oxygen, oxidation of organics, ammonia
removal, and heavy metals removal. The other ponds provide extended secondary
treatment and act as ef fluent polishing systems.
11. Effluent from Pond 1 is channeled to Pond A through a flow control structure that controls
the water level in Pond 1. The flow control structure has a permanent weir that controls
the water level in Pond 1 such that 2 feet of freeboard is maintained. Under normal
operating c onditions, effluent flows over the weir to Pond A. Slide gates located within this
structure allow operators to temporarily divert some or all of the flow to Pond B for storage.
In the event of excessively hi gh water levels at Ponds 1 and A, an overflow also channels
water to Pond B.
12. Pond A is approximately 5 feet deep with a surface area of approximately 20 acres. The
design detention time is approximately 18 days. Pond A (and Pond B when used)
provides onl y limited treatment; its primary purpose is set tlement of algae. When there is
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
3a need to store more water than Ponds 1, A, and B can accommodate, water can be
pumped to Ponds C and D. Ponds C and D are used as additional storage when
wastewater influent exceeds recycled water demand. The water from these ponds is
pumped back to Pond A for inclusion in the treatment process.
13. Effluent from Pond A is sent to the clarifier influent pump station wet well via a 20-inch
sewer line. The clarifier influent pumps then supply the water to three clarifiers. All three
clarifiers are connected a nd can be run individually or in parallel. Polyaluminum chloride
(PAC) is added as a coagulant at the clarifiers. The sludge from the clarifiers is withdrawn
using three slud ge pumps and sent back to the fermentation pit in Pond 1 for digestion and
treatment. The clarifier effluent is pumped by three filter influent pumps through the (non -
operational) Lamella filters into the filter effluent pump Station wet well.
14. Chlorine is generated on-site by a hypochlorite generation and injection system that
produc es the chlorine equivalent of 150 pounds per day of 0.8-percent sodium
hypochlorite (NaClO). The 0.8-percent NaClO is stored on-site in a 380-gallon
polyethylene storage tank. Chlorine is added to the water prior to entering the 1 -million -
gallon (MG) onsi te reservoir. The chlorine dosage can be manually set by the Operator .
Disinfected secondary -23 treated waste water from the reservoir is pumped to the golf
course ponds as needed via the secondary effluent pump station , and is stored in two
open ponds with a 10 million gallon (MG) total capacity , then used for golf course
irrigation . Attachment C, incorporated herein and made part of this Order by reference ,
illustrates a sch ematic flow diagram of the WWTF .
15. The WWTF ponds are designed with the following characteristics :
Fermentation
Pit Integrated
Pond System
(Pond 1) Oxidation
Pond A
Function Primary
Treatment Primary/Secondary
Treatment Secondary
Treatment
Surface Area
(acres) 2.5 13.1 19.8
Typical Depth (ft) 13 5 5
Volume (MG) 5.7 20.3 31.2
Detention Time
(days) 3.25 11.6 17.81
Interior Slope (H
ft : V ft) 3:1 3:1 3:1
Berm Materials Earthen Earthen/
Concrete Earthen/
Concrete
16. The WWTF is designed for the following p arameters:
Design Average Daily Flow 1.75 MGD
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
4Design Peak Daily Flow 3.0 MGD
Influent 20o C BOD 51275 mg/L2
Influent TSS3200 mg/L
17. The Discharger ’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMR ) from June 2011 through May 2016
characterize the WWTF influent as follows:
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 0.742 0.890 0.543
20o C BOD 5 mg/L 262 788 19
TSS mg/L 164 510 36
18. The Discharger ’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMR) from June 2011 through May 2016
characterize the WWTF effluent as follows:
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
20o C BOD 5 mg/L 13.2 76 1.0
TSS mg/L 14.1 108 5.0
pH pH Units 6.8 9.9 5.6
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 809 2000 200
Nitrate as N mg/L 4.1 90 0.1
Nitrite as N mg/L 0.62 10 0.02
Total Nitrogen mg/L 19.5 54 4.1
19. The Discharg ers Self-Monitoring Reports (SMR) from June 2011 through May 2016
characterize secondary -23 recycled water used for golf course irrigations as follows:
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 0.558 1.100 0.034
Coliforms MPN/100mL46.4 124 <2
1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20 ° Celsius
2 milligrams per liter
3 Total S uspended Solids
4 Most Probable Number per 100 milliliters
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
520. There are 22 industrial sites within the Mainside wastewater collection system that
discharge to the WWTF . In July of 2007, an Industrial Wastewater Characterization study
was completed for those sites summarizing the results of wastewater samples . Three
types of facilities were sampled in the 2006 sampling event : 1) Oil and Water Separators,
2) vehicle maintenance facilities, and 3) sanitary sewer lines in the vicinity of industrial
users and the WWTF. Samples were analyzed for various constituents inc luding: oil and
grease, volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds, total petroleum hydrocarbons,
PCBs, pesticides, herbicides, metals (CAM17 and hexavalent chromium), biological and
chemical oxygen demand and suspended and dissolved solids. The purpose of the st udy
was to determine if the industrial wastewater discharges were causing or potentially could
cause impacts to the WWTF. The results of the study were that none of the samples
collected had high levels of contaminants that might cause operation al problems or
biological upsets at the WWTF.
Hydrogeologic Conditions
21. Annual precipitation averages about 4.5 inches.
22. There are no domestic wells within 500 feet of the WWTF .
23. Water supply to the community is from 11 groundwater production wells located in the
Surprise Springs subbasin located 10 miles northwest of the MCAGCC . Total Dissol ved
Solids (TDS) for the water supply ranges from 150 to 245 mg/L with an average 188 mg/L.
24. A United States Geological Survey for Mesquite and Mainside Sub -basin, which u nderlies
the facility, notes total dissolved solids concentrations ranging from 900 to 15,926 mg/L.
Groundwater in the Mesquite Lake and Mainside Subbasins contain elevated
concentrations of fluorides and sulfates.
25. A Hydrogeologic al Study submitted by the discharger, dated February 20 01, presented the
following conclusions :
a. A thick impermeable clayey soil underlies the bottom surface of the treatment facility
ponds. This clayey soil is greater than 25 feet in thickness and continuous beneath
the ponds wit hin the treatment facility .
b. The clay underlying the treatment ponds has measured permeabilities ranging from
between 8.2 x 10-10 and 8.77 x 10-8 cm/sec. The rate of wastewater flow through these
upper clayey materials has been calculated to range from app roximately 0.026 to 2.5
cm/year, or 0.01 to one (1) inch per year.
c. Based on the data collected from this and previous investigations, the clay layer
underlying the treatment facility is an extremely effective barrier against the migration
of wastewater fro m the ponds and into the aquifer underlying the treatment facility .
d. There is no evidence collected during this or past investigations that suggests that
wastewater from the treatment ponds has migrated, or has the potential to migrate
through the clayey so ils underlying the ponds .
e. Clayey soil layers separated by silts, silty fine sands, and fine sands are present
between 25 and one hundred (100) feet below ground surface (bgs). The clays within
these deeper layers have measured permeabilities ranging from 9.61 x 10-10 to 3.51 x
10-9. These clayey layers would assist in reducing potential wastewater migration from
the surface and into the underlying aquifer. Note, however, that it is not known if these
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
6lower clays are laterally continuous beneath the ponds.
f. The main aquifer underl ying the treatment facility is reportedly located at
approximately 215 feet bgs. Two (2) perched aquifers were reported in a well (MS -1)
adjacent to the ponds at 75 and 188 feet bgs. Indications of the perched aquifer at 75
feet were not encountered during the consultant’s field investigation. Based on data
collected during this investigation, the perched groundwater at 188 bgs is the closest
groundwater located beneath the treatment ponds.
g. In case of disruption, such as from faulting or fault creep, the clay underlying the
treatment facility would be self -healing. Faulting of the underlying clay would not likely
jeopardize its effectiveness in preventing the downward mitigation of wastewater.
26. Regional groundwater flow in the Main side Subbasin’s unconfin ed deeper primary aquifer
is to the southeast along the base of the Bullion Mountains. Approximately one (1) mile
southeast of the WWTF, there is a southwestward component of flow away from the
Bullion Mountains toward the Mesquite Lake Fault. Groundwate r beneath the WWTF
flows to the southeast.
27. The site is located in a seismically active desert region, bounded on the east by the Bullion
Mountain Fault and on the west by the Mesquite Lake Fault .
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Reg ulatory Considerations
28. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses and establishes water quality objectives for
ground and surface waters in the Region, and contains implementation programs and
policies to achieve objectives. In addition, State Water Resour ces Control Board (State
Water Board) Resolution 88 -63 requires that, with certain exceptions, the Regional Water
Board assign the municipal and domestic supply use to water bodies that do not have
beneficial use s listed in the Basin Plan.
29. The proposed discharge is within the Dale Hydrologic Unit. Beneficial uses for
groundwater in the Dale Hydrologic Unit include:
a. Municipal supply (MUN),
b. Industrial supply (IND), and
c. Agricultural supply (AGR) .
30. Section 13267 of the CWC authorizes the Regional Water Boards t o require technical and
monitoring reports. The Monitoring and Reporting Program establishes monitoring and
reporting requirements to implement f ederal and State requirements.
31. This Order establishes WDRs pursu ant to Division 7, Chapter 4, Article 4, of th e CWC for
discharges that are not subject to regulation under Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 402
(33 U.S.C. Section 1342).
32. WDRs implement narrative and numeric water quality objectives for ground and surface
waters established by the Basin Plan. The numeri c objectives for groundwater designated
for municipal and domestic supply are the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs), and
bacteriological limits specified in Section 64421 et seq. of Title 22, California Code of
Regulations (CCR). The narrative ob jectives are:
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
7“Ground water…shall not contain taste or odor producing substances in
concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses as a result of human activity.”
(Basin Plan, page 3 -8).
“Discharges of water softener regeneration brines ...to disposal faciliti es which
ultimately discharge in areas where such wastes can percolate to ground water
usable for domestic and municipal purposes are prohibited.” (Basin Plan, page 3 -8).
33. The discharge authorized by this Board Order, and treatment and storage facilities
associated with discharges of treated municipal wastewater, except for discharges of
residual sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the solid waste requirements of Title 27,
CCR, Section 20005 et seq. (hereinafter Title 27). This exemption is based on Section
20090(b) of Title 27, which states in relevant part that discharges of sewage or treated
effluent are exempt from Title 27 provided that the discharges satisfy the following:
a. Wastes consist primarily of domestic sewage and treated effluent;
b. Wastes are regulated by WDR s, or a waiver of WDR s;
c. WDRs are consistent with applicable water quality objectives; and
d. Treatment and disposal facilities described herein are associated with a municipal
wastewater trea tment facility .
34. The State Water Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW), formerly
the Drinking Water Program of California Department of Health Services (DHS) and later
the California Department of Environmental Health , is statutorily required to establish
uniform statewide recycling criteria for the various uses of recycled water to assure
protection of public health where recycled water use occurs (CWC sectio n 13521).
DDW has promulgated regulatory criteria in Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, section
60301 .050 et seq. of the CCR. DDW regulatory criteria include specified approved uses
of recycled water, numerical limitations and requirements, treatment metho d
requirements and performance standards. DDW regulations allow use of alternate
methods of treatment in some cases, so long as th e alternate methods are determined
by DDW to provide equivalent treatment and reliability.
35. The DDW has established statewide reclamation criteria for the use of recycled water and
has developed guidelines for specific uses.
36. Recycled water used for surface irrigation of the following shall be at least disinfected
secondary –23 recycled water:
a. Cemeteries,
b. Freeway landscaping,
c. Restricted access golf courses,
d. Ornamental nursery stock and sod farms where access by the general public is not
restricted,
e. Pasture for animals producing milk for human consumption, and
f. Any nonedible vegetation where access is controlled so that the irrigated area cannot
be used as if it were part of a park, playground or schoolyard.
37. In a letter dated September 22, 2000, DHS approved the use of secondary –23 treated and
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
8disinfected recycled water from the treatment facility for restricted access landscape
irrigation of the MCAGCC golf course.
38. In a letter dated January 23, 2001, DHS states that the use of tertiary treated recycled
water is contingent upon approval of an Engineering Report (to be submitted by
Discharger to DHS ) and optimization of the tertiary treatment system to meet Title 22
criteria.
39. In a letter dated February 24, 2004, DHS states that it had received and reviewed the Title
22 Engineering Report, date d November 2003, for the proposed use of recycled water at
MCAGCC. DHS further stated that the Engineering Report was acceptable, contingent
upon the Discharger addressing DHS’ recommendations and comments. The approval
covers six (6) areas and specific locations that are included in the Title 22 Engineering
Report submitted November 2003.
40. On June 10, 2004, MCAGCC submitted a final Engineering Report to DHS for the
proposed use of tertiary treated recycled water. In a letter dated June 30, 2004, DHS
approved the use of tertiary -2.2 treated and disinfected recycled water.
41. Although MCAGCC has been approved for the production and use of tertiary -2.2 treated
and disinfected recycled water, the Discharger has removed the tertiary treatment units
from the treatment process and has chosen not to produce or use tertiary -22 treated
recycled water. The requirements that regulate tertiary -2.2 recycled water will be removed
from this Board Order. Upon adoption of this Board Order, the Discharge r will not be
authorized to produce or use tertiary -2.2 recycled water unless a revised ROWD is
submitted that includes a technical report indicating that the tertiary treatment unit has
been rehabilitated and is operational. The technical report is subject to review and
approval by DDW and the Colorado River Basin Water Board .
42. State policy promote s the use of recycled water to the maximum extent in order to
supplement existing surface and ground water supplies to help meet water needs (CWC
sections 13510 -13512). One of the primary conditions on the use of recycled water is
protection of public health (CWC sections 13521, 13522, 13550(a)(3)).
43. Pursuant to CWC s ection 13263(g), the discharge of waste is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Or der does not create a ve sted right to continue the discharge.
Groundwater Degradation
44. State Water Board Resolution 68-16 (“Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality
Waters of the State”) (hereinafter Resolution 68-16) requires a Regional Water Board in
regulating the discharge of waste to maintain high quality waters of the state (i.e.,
background water quality) until it is demonstrated that any change in quality will be
consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not unreasonabl y affect
beneficial uses, and will not result in water quality less than as described in plans and
policies (e.g., violation of any water quality objective). Moreover, the discharge is required
to meet WDRs that result in the best practicable treatment or control (BPTC) of the
discharge necessary to assure pollution or nuisance will not occur, and highest water
quality consistent with maximum benefit to the people will be maintained.
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
945. Some degradation of groundwater from the discharge to the evaporation ponds is
consistent wi th Resolution 68 -16, provided that this degradation:
a. Is confined to a reasonable area;
b. Is minimized by means of full implementation, regular maintenance, and optimal
operation of BPTC measures;
c. Is limited to waste constituents typically encountered in domestic wastewater; and
d. Does not result in the loss of any beneficial use as prescribed in the applicable basin
plan, or violation of any water quality objective.
46. The discharge of wastewater from the WWTF, as permitted herein, reflects BPTC . The
controls assure the discharge does not create a condition of pollution or nuisance, and
that water quality will be maintained which is consistent with the anti-degradation
provisions of Resolution No. 68 -16. The WWTF incorporates:
a. An impermeable cl ay layer underlying the WWTF;
b. Technology for secondary treated disinfected domestic wastewater;
c. Solids handling facilities;
d. An operation and maintenance manual;
e. Staffing to assure proper operation and maintenance; and
f. A standby emergency power generator of sufficient size to operate the treatment
facility and ancillary equipment during periods of loss of commercial power.
Accordingly, the discharge , as authorized herein, is consistent with the anti -degradation
provisions of Resolution 68 -16 and the applicab le water quality objectives.
Constituents of Concern
47. Constituents in domestic WWTF effluent that present the greatest risk to groundwater
quality are nitrogen, coliform s (pathogen -indicator organisms), and dissolved salts
(TDS). The proposed WWTF provide s substantial removal of soluble organic matter,
solids, and nitrogen .
48. While secondary treatment reduces fecal coliform densities by 90 to 99%, the remaining
organisms in effluent are still 105 to 106 MPN/100 ml (United States Environmental
Protection Agenc y, Design Manual, Municipal Wastewater Disinfection ; October 1986).
Given the depth to groundwater and the clay layer beneath the treatment ponds , it is not
likely that pathogen -indicator bacteria will reach groundwater at densities exceeding
those prescr ibed in Title 22, CCR.
49. The typical incremental addition of dissolved salts from domestic water usage is 150 to
380 mg/L. Domestic water supply to t he community showed a range of 140 to 240 mg/L
with an average of about 180 mg/L during the period of June 2011 to May 2016 . The
TDS increase for this facility for the same time period was about 590 mg/L .
50. Salinity of groundwater beneath the WWTF ponds ranges from 900 to 15,926 mg/L.
This Board Order contain s a TDS limit of 900 mg/L. During the period of June 2011 to
May 2016 , the Dischargers SMR show that effluent from the WWTF had a range of 200
to 20 00 mg/L with an av erage of an average of about 809 mg/L. The clay layer beneath
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
10the treatment ponds and the regulatory limit of 900 mg/L reasonably protect pres ent and
anticipated beneficial uses of groundwater beneath . Therefore, it is not likely that
groundwater w ill exhibit degradation by TDS.
51. Title 2 2, CCR , section 64431 , Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) for Nitrate plus Nitrite
as Nitrogen is 10 mg/L. To acc ount for the fate of transport for the various components
of Total Nitrogen, as a conservative value it is assumed that all nitrogen present
converts to nitrate/nitrit e. The Discharger’s SMR s from June 2011 to May 2016 show a
range of 4.1 to 54 mg/L with an average of 20 mg/L for Total Nitrogen. Given the depth
to groundwater and the clay layer beneath the treatment ponds , it is not likely that
nitrates will reach groundwater at a rate or in concentrations causing groundwater to
exceed those prescribed in Title 22, CCR , section 64431 .
52. Groundwater limits equal to water quality objectives for indicator waste constituents are
appropriate and protective of water quality objectives . The marine base contributes to
economic development in the area. This factor and the associated increase in TDS are
consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State.
CEQA / NEPA Public Participation
53. In accordance with Section 15301, Chapter 3, Title 14 of the California Code of
Regulations, the issuance of these WDRs, which govern the operation of an existing
facility involving negligible or no expansion of use beyond that previously existing, is
exempt from the provisions of t he California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources
Code, Section 21000 et seq.) .
54. The Boa rd has notified the Discharger and all known interested agencies and persons of
its intent to draft WDRs for this discharge, and has provided them with an opportunity for a
public meeting and an opportunity to submit comments.
55. The Board, in a public meetin g, heard and considered all comments pertaining to this
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED , that Board Order R7 -2012 -0002 is rescinded upon the effective dat e
of this Order, and, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water
Code, and regulations adopted thereunder,
the Discharger shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions
1. Discharge of waste classified as ‘hazardo us’, as defined in Title 23, CCR, Section
2521(a), or ‘designated ’, as defined in California Water Code Section 13173, is
prohibited.
2. Discharge of treated wastewater at a location other than the designated disposal areas or
as recycled water used for irrigation at approved use areas , is prohibited. This prohibition
does not limit the flexibility in disch arging different percentages of treated wastewater .
3. The WWTF shall be maintaine d to prohibit sewage or treated effluent from surfacing or
overflowing.
4. The discharge of any wastewater from the facility to any surface waters or surface
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
11drain age courses is prohibited.
5. The Discharger shall not accept waste in excess of t he design treatment capacity of the
disposal system.
6. The discharge of waste to land not owned or authorized for such use by the Discharger
is prohibited.
7. Surfacing or ponding of wastewater outside of the designated disposal locations is
prohibited.
8. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any Board
Order condition. Causes for modif ication include a change in land application plans, or
sludge use or disposal practices, and adoption of new regulations by the State or the
Colorado River Basin Water Board (including revisions to the Basin Plan), or Federal
government.
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Waste Discharge Requirements
21I, Jose L. Angel , Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy
of an Order adopted by the California Regional Wate r Quality Control Board, Colorado River
Basin Region, on September 15, 2016 .
Original signed by
JOSE L. ANGE L, P.E.
Executive Officer
1 CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM R7-2016 -0032
FOR
UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS , OWNER/OPERATOR
MAINSIDE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
Twentynine Palms – San Bernardino County
Location of Wastewa ter Treatment Facility: NW ¼ of Section 29, T2N, R9 E, SBB &M
Location of golf course: NW ¼ of Section 19, T2N, R9E, SBB &M
A. Monitoring
1. This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a
wastewater system and groundwater quality (when needed). This MRP is issued pursuant
to California Water Code (CWC) section 13267. The Discharger shall not implement any
changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Executive Offic er.
2. Water Code section 13267 states, in part:
“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the Colorado River Basin
Water Board may require that any person who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or discharging , or who proposes to discharge waste within
its region, or any citizen or domiciliary, or political agency or entity of this state who has
discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who
proposes to discharge, waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters
within its region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program
reports which the Colorado River Basin Water Board requires. The burden, including
costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the report and
the benefits to be obtained from the reports. In requiring those reports, the Colorado River
Basin Water Board shall provide the person with a written explanation with regard to the
need f or the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring that person to
provide the reports.”
3. Water Code section 13268 states, in part:
“(a) (1) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports as
required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a statement of
compliance as required by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying any information
provi ded therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be liable civilly in accor dance with
subdivision (b). (b) (1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a Colorado River
Basin Water Board in accordance with Article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of
Chapter 5 for a violation of subdivision (a) in an amount which shall not exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which the violation occurs.”
4. The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater system that is subject to Board Order
R7-2016-0032 . The reports are necessary to ensure that the Discharger complies w ith the
Order. Pursuant to Water Code section 13267, the Discharger shall implement the MRP
and shall submit the monitoring reports described herein.
5. All samples and measurements shall be representative of the volume and nature of the
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Monitoring and Reporting Program
2discharge or matrix of material sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample
shall be recorded on the sample chain of custody form. If composite samples are
collected, the basis for samp ling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by Colorado
River Basin Wate r Board staff.
6. Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical
conductivity) may be used provided that:
a. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
b. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency
recommended by the manufacturer;
c. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended
frequency; and
d. Field calibr ation reports are submitted as described in the “Reporting” section of this
MRP.
7. The collection, preservation and holding times of all samples shall be in accordance with
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) approved procedures. Unless
otherwise approved by the Colorado River Basin Water Board ’s Executive Office r, all
analyses shall be conducted by a laboratory certified by the State Department of Health
Services. All analyses shall be conducted in accordance with the latest edition of the
“Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants” (40 CFR Part 136),
promulgated by the USEPA.
8. All monitoring instruments and devices used by the discharger to fulfill the prescribed
monitoring program shall be properly maintained and calibrated as necessary to ensure
their continued accuracy. In the event that continuous monitoring equipment is out of
service for period greater than 24-hours, the Discharger shall obtain representative grab
samples each day the equipment is out of service. The Discharger shall correct the
cause(s) of failure of the continuou s monitoring equipment as soon as practicable. The
Discharger shall report the period(s) during which the equipment was out of service and if
the problem has not been corrected, sh all identify the steps which the Discharger is taking
or proposes to take to bring the equipment back into service and the schedule for these
actions.
9. The Discharger shall retain records of all monitoring information, including all calibration
and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitori ng
instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this Board Order, and records of all data
used to complete the application for this Board Order, for a period of at lea st five (5) years
from the date of the sample, measurement, report or application. This period may be
extended by request of the Colorado River Basin Water Board’s Executive Officer at any
time. Records of monitoring information shall include:
a. The date, e xact place, and time of sampling or measurement(s);
b. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurement(s);
c. The date(s) analyses were performed;
d. The individual(s) who performed the analyses;
e. The analytical techniques or method used; and
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Monitoring and Reporting Program
3f. The results of such analyses.
10. Samples shall be collected at the location specified in the Perm it. If no location is
specified, sampling shall be conducted at the most representative sampling point
available.
11. Given the monitoring frequency prescribed by MRP R7 -2016 -0032 , if only one sample is
available for a given reporting period, compliance with monthly average, or weekly
average Discharge Specifications, will be determined from that sample.
12. If the facility is not in operation, or there is no discharge during a required reporting period,
the Discharger shall forward a letter to the Colorado River Basin Water Board indicating
that there has been no activity during the required reporting period.
Influent Monitoring
13. Influent to the WWTF shall be monitored according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reportin g
Frequency
Flow (Total Facility
Influent) MGD1Flow Measurement Daily2Monthly
20oC BOD 53mg/L4 24-Hr. Composite or 4
grab samples in an 8-hour
period5 Once every two
weeks Monthly
TSS6 mg/L 24-Hr. Composite or 4
grab samples in an 8 -hour
period Once e very two
weeks Monthly
WWTF Secondary Effluent Monitoring
14. The Discharger shall monitor effluent from the WWTF according to the following
schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
20° C BOD 5 mg/L 24-Hr. Composite or 4
grab samples in an 8 -
hour period Once every
two weeks Monthly
1 Million Gallons -Per-Day
2 Reported for each day with average monthly flow calculated
3 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20 °C
4 Milligrams per l iter
5 The period sha ll be between 6 am through 4 pm
6 Total Suspended Solids
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Monitoring and Reporting Program
4TSS mg/L 24-Hr. Composite or 4
grab samples in an 8 -
hour period Once every
two weeks Monthly
Settleable Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
TDS mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrate (NO 3-N) as
Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrite (NO 2-N) as
Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Volatile Organic
Compounds7 mg/L8 Grab Annually Annually
Pond 1 Monitoring
15. The wastewater treatment pond shall monitored according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
pH pH units Grab Weekly Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen mg/L Grab Weekly Monthly
Freeboard ft Measurement Monthly Monthly
Disinfected Secondary -23 Recyc led Water
16. Disinfected secondary -23 recycled water used for golf course irrigation shall monitored
according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow MGD Measurement Daily Monthly
Total Colifo rms MPN/100mL9 Grab Daily Monthly
Chlorine Residual mg/L Meter Reading Continuous Monthly
Water Supply to the Community
17. The dome stic water supply shall be monitor ed according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
7 Analysis of Volatile Organic Compounds is to be accomplished using the USEPA test methods 601 and
602 or 624
8 Micrograms per l iter
9 Most Probable Number pe r 100 milliliters
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Monitoring and Reporting Program
5TDS mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Sludge Monitoring
18. The D ischarger shall report annually on the quantity, location and method of disposal of
all sludge and similar solid materials being produced at the WWTF . If no sludge is
disposed of during the year being reported, the Discharger shall state “No Sludge
Remove d” in the annual monitoring report. Sludge that is generated at the WWTF shall
be sampled and analyzed for the following:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Sampling
Frequency Report ing
Frequency
Arsenic mg/kg10Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Cadmium mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Copper mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Lead mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Mercury mg/kg Composite Prior to Dis posal Annually
Molybdenum mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Nickel mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Selenium mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Zinc mg/kg Composite Prior to Disposal Annually
Fecal Coliform MPN/gram11Composi te Prior to Disposal Annually
B. Reporting
1. The Discharger shall inspect and document any operation/maintenance problems by
inspecting each unit process. Operation and Maintenance and Pretreatment reports
shall be submitted to the Colorado River Basin Water Board Office annually, containing
documen tation showing the calibration of flow meters and equipment as performed in a
timely manner, modifications and updates to the Operation and Maintenance Manual,
and modifications and updates to the Agency’s waste water ordinance or rules and
regulations.
2. The Discharger shall provide an operator certification status update including number of
staff and grade certification annually.
3. SMRs shall be certified under penalty of perjury to be true and correct, and shall conta in
the required information at the freque ncy designated in this MRP.
4. Each Report must contain an affirmation in writing that:
"All analyses were conducted at a laboratory certified for such analyses by and in
10 Milligrams per kilogram
11 Most Probable Number per gram
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Monitoring and Reporting Program
6accordance with current USEPA procedures or as specified in this Monitoring and
Reportin g Program.”
5. Each Report shall contain the following completed declaration:
"I certify under the penalty of law that this document, including all attachments and
supplemental information, was prepared under my direct ion or supervision in accordance
with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gathered and evaluated
the information submitted. I have personally examined and am familiar with the information
submitted in this document, and that based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately
responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the information is true, accurate,
and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the poss ibility of a fine and imprisonment .
Executed on the _______ day of _______ at ____________________
____________________ (Signature)
______________ _______ (Title)”
6. The SMRs, and other information requested by the Colorado River Basin Water Board,
shall be signed by a principal executive officer or ranking elected official.
7. A duly authorized representative of the Discharger may sign the documents if:
a. The authorization is made in writing by the person described above;
b. The authorization specified an in dividual or person having responsibility for the overall
operation of the regulated disposal system; and
c. The written authorization is submitted to the Color ado River Basin Water Board’s
Executive Officer .
8. The Discharger shall attach a cover letter to the S MRs. The information contained in the
cover letter shall clearly identify violations of the WDRs; discuss corrective actions taken
or planned and the propo sed time schedule of corrective actions. Identified violations
should include a description of the requirement that was violated and a description of the
violation.
9. The Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the specified information is
readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner as to clearly
illustrate whethe r the facility is operating in compliance with Waste Discharge
Requirements (WDRs). Where appropriate, the Discharger shall include supporting
calculations (e.g., for monthly averages).
10. The results of any analysis taken, more frequently than required at the locations
specified in this MRP shall be reported to the Colorado River Basin Water Board .
11. Daily, weekly, and monthly monitoring shall be included in the monthly monitoring report.
Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Colorado River Basi nWater Board
by the 15th day of the following month. Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted
by January 15th, April 15th, July 15th and October 15th. Annual monitoring reports shall be
submitted by January 31st of the following year.
United States Marine Corps Board Order R7-2016 -0032
Mainside Wastewater Treatment Facility Monitoring and Reporting Program
712. The Dischar ger shall comply with the Electronic Submittal of Information (ESI)
requirements by submitting all correspondence and reports required under Monitoring
and Reporting Program (MRP) R7-2016 -0032 , and future revisions thereto, including
groundwater monitoring data and discharge locat ion data (latitude and longitude),
correspondence, and pdf monitoring reports to the State Water Resources Control Board
GeoTracker database. Documents that are 2.0 MB or larger should be broken down into
smaller electronic files, labelled properly and up loaded into GeoTracker.
Original signed by
JOSE L. ANGEL P.E.
Executive Officer
September 15, 20 16
Date
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
BOARD ORDER R7 -2016 -0032; ATTACHMENT A – VICINITY AND SITE MAP

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
BOARD ORDER R7 -2016 -0032; ATTACHMENT B – WWTF SITE LAYOUT

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION
BOARD ORDER R7 -2016 -0032; ATTACHMENT C – SCHEMATIC FLOW DIAGRAM