Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
6. The WWTP consists of preliminary, primary, and secondary treatment, and solids
and effluent disposal systems. Including the proposed modifications, t he
preliminary treatment system consists of four chopper pumps, an odor control
system, one channel auger, one grit vortex inducer, two grit pumps , and two grit
classifiers. Primary and secondary treatment units consist of five extended
aeration units, five secondary clarifiers, one cloth filter, and eight
evaporation/percolation ponds. The W WTP components that are used for
treatment are described below and the Process Flow Diagram for the WWTP is
shown in Attachment C.
7. Untreated wastewater flows from the influent pump station to the preliminary
treatment system , Wastewater from the preliminar y treatment system gravity
flows to one or more of the five extended aeration units for primary and
secondary treatment. Two of the extended aeration units have treatment
capacities of 0.2 6 MGD each, the third has a treatment capacity of 0.4 2 MGD,
and the remaining two have treatment capacities of 0.75 MGD each. Effluent
from the extended aeration units then gravity flows to the secondary clarifiers and
then either through the cloth filter to the evaporation/percolation ponds or directly
to the evaporation/ percolation ponds for disposal.
8. Scum and sludge from the five secondary clarifiers are pumped to a 2.0 -meter
skid mounted belt filter press. The scum, sludge, grit, and screenings are loaded
into trailers daily and hauled offsite by a private contractor. T he trailers are
hauled offsite for advanced treatment including lime stabilization and “Class A ”
standards. (See 40 C.F.R. part 503 .) For emergency operation only, eleven
asphalt bottom sludge drying beds are also available for service.
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 3
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
9. The Discharger’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from January 201 8 through June
2021 characterize the WWTP effluent as follows :
Table 1. Effluent Characterization
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 1.91 2.13 1.75
20o C BOD 51mg/L218.5 43 8.5
TSS3mg/L 6.6 16.6 2
pH s.u.47.34 7.56 6.95
Total Dissolved
Solids (T DS)mg/L 621 784 492
Total Nitrogen
(TN)mg/L15.4 41 0.18
Nitrate as N mg/L 2.1 14 ND
Hydrogeologic Conditions
10. Annual precipitation in the region averages about 5 inches. Annual
evapotranspiration rate in the vicinity is approximately 60 inches.
11. There are no surface waters in the vicinity of the evaporation/percolation ponds. An
ephemeral wash borders the northeast corner of the WWTP. The site is pr otected
from flooding by an earthen berm and a 3.5 -foot tall block wall on the north. An
earthen berm covered with rock rip -rap starts at the northeast corner and extends
southward for channeling floodwater outward and away from the Facility . The
Discharge r states that the site is adequately protected from a 100 -year storm
event.
12. There are no domestic wells within 1,000 feet of the on -site
evaporation/percolation ponds.
1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20 degrees Celsius.
2 milligrams per Liter
3 Total Suspended Solids
4 Standard pH units
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 4
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
13. Water supply to the community is from groundwater production wells located in the
Missi on Creek Subbasin. MSWD’s domestic supply sample is taken from a tap at
Well 29, which is one of their production wells. TDS in the water supply averages
about 615 mg /L based on values reported in MSWD’s SMRs from January 2018
through June 2021.
14. Regional g roundwater flow in the area is generally from north west to south east in
the Mission Creek Subbasin .
15. Groundwater monitoring data collected from monitoring wells MW -1, MW -2, and
MW-3 during the period from January 2018 through June 2021 show the following
average characteristics :
Table 2. Groundwater Monitoring Data
Constituent UnitsMW-1
UpgradientMW-2
DowngradientMW-3
Downgradient
Depth to
GroundwaterFt bgs 191 174.3 167.6
TDS mg/L 660 683 723
Total Nitrogen mg/L 3.22 6.37 5.13
Nitrate as N mg/L 2.03 6.29 6.61
Sulfate mg/L 221 263.6 280.7
Chloride mg/L 75.1 74.6 81.9
Fluoride mg/L 0.538 0.437 0.827
Aluminum mg/L ND ND ND
16. The Discharger reports that the soil in the vicinity of the WWTP, from ground
surface to twenty -five feet beneath ground surface, is coarse, clean, whitish gray,
dry sand. From a depth of twenty -five to twenty -eight feet below ground surface,
the soil is sandy silt, light brown in color and slightly porous. Thereafter, the so il
is similar to that in the first twenty -five feet, except it is much finer and has traces
of silt in it. The i nfiltration rate is 0.67 feet per day. The depth to groundwater has
ranged from 167 to 191 feet below ground surface (bgs).
17. The site is located in a seismically active desert region .
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 5
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses , and Regulatory Considerations
18. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Colorado River Basin Region (Basin Plan)5
designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objective s (WQOs) , and
contains implementation program s and policies to achieve those WQOs for all
water s addressed through the plan. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263,
subdivision (a), WDRs must implement the Basin Plan and take into consideration
the beneficial uses to be protected, the WQOs reasonably required for that
purpose, other waste discharges, the need to prevent nuisance , and the provisions
of Water Code section 13241.
19. The Facility is located within the Coachella Hydrologic Unit, and the Basin Plan
designates the following beneficial uses for groundwater:
a. Municipal Supply (MUN) ,
b. Industrial Suppl y (IND) , and
c. Agricultural Supply (AGR) .
20. Adopted pursuant to Water Code section 1326 3, this Order prescribes WDRs for
waste discharges that are not subject to regulation under Clean Water Act
section 402 (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
21. These WDRs implement the Basin Pl an’s numeric and narrative WQOs for
groundwater and surface waters established by the Basin Plan and other
applicable state and federal laws and policies . The numeric WQOs for MUN -
designated groundwater incorporates the primary and secondary maximum
contam inant levels (MCLs) for drinking water specified in California Code of
Regulations, title 22 (Title 22) , section 64421 et seq. This means that MUN -
designated groundwater shall not contain taste - or odor -producing substances in
concentrations that adversely affect beneficial uses as a result of human activity.
22. It is the policy of the State of California that every human being has the right to
safe, clean, affordable, and accessible water adequate for human consumption,
cooking, and sanitary purposes. (Wat. Code, § 106.3.) This Order promotes that
policy by requiring discharges to meet MCLs protect ive human health , ensur ing
that water is safe for domestic use.
23. The discharge authorized by this Order , except for discharges of residual sludge
and solid waste, are exempt from the solid waste requirements of California Code
of Regulations, title 27, section 20005 et seq. This exemption is based on section
20090, subdivision s (a) and (b) of title 27 of th e California Code of Regulations,
which provides that discharges of domestic sewage or wastewater to land,
5 The Basin Plan was adopted on November 17, 1993 and most recently amended on January 8, 2019.
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 6
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
including but not limited to evaporation ponds, percolation ponds, or subsurface
leach fields are not subject to the requirements of title 27 if the following exemption
conditions are met:
a. The applicable regional water board has issued WDRs, reclamation
requirements, or waived such issuance;
b. The discharge is in compliance with the applicable water quality control
plan; and
c. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to chapter 11,
division 4.5, title 22 of the California Code of Regulations as a “hazardous
waste. ”
24. The discharge of waste authorized by these WDRs satisfies the conditions to be
exempted from the requirements of title 27 of the Cal ifornia Code of Regulations,
because (1) the discharge is regulated by these WDRs; (2) these WDRs will
ensure the discharge complies with the Basin Plan; and (3) the discharge will not
be of a “hazardous waste.”
25. Consistent with Water Code section 13241, th e Regional Water Board, in
establishing the requirements contained herein, considered factors including, but
not limited to, the following:
a. Past, present, and probable future beneficial uses of water.
b. Environmental characteristics of the hydrographic unit under consideration,
including the quality of water available thereto.
c. Water quality conditions that could reasonably be achieved through the
coordinated control of all factors which affect water quality in the area.
d. Economic considerations.
e. The need for developing housing within the region(s).
f. The need to develop and use recycled water.
26. This Order and the separately -adopted Monitoring an d Reporting Program
R7-2022 -0008 (MRP) are also issued pursuant to Water Code section 13267 ,
subdivision (b)(1), which authorizes the Regional Water Board to require technical
and monitoring reports. The monitoring and reporting requirements in the MRP are
necessary to demonstrate compliance with this Order . The State Water Resources
Control Board’s ( State Water Board ’s) electronic database, GeoTracker
Information Systems, facilitates the submittal and review of monitoring and
reporting documents . The burde n, including costs, of th e MRP bears a reasonable
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 7
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
relationship to the need for that information and the benefits to be obtained from
that information.
27. The discharge of waste is a privilege, not a right, and adoption of this Order does
not create a vested right to continue the discharge. (Wat. Code , § 13263,
subd . (g).)
Antidegradation Analysis
28. State Water Board Resolution 68 -16, entitled Statement of Policy with Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters in California (Resolution 68 -16), generally
prohibits the Regional Water Board from authorizing discharges that will result in
the degradation of high quality waters, unless it is demonstrated that any change in
water quality will (a) be consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the state,
(b) not unreasonably affect beneficial uses, and (c) not result in water quality less
than that prescribed in state and regional policies (e.g., the violation of one or more
water quality objectives). The discharger must also employ best practicable
treatment or control (BPTC) to minimize the degradation of high quality waters.
High quality waters are surface waters or areas of groundwater that have a
baseline water quality better than required by water quality control plans and
policies.
29. Some degradation of groundwater from the discharge to the infiltration basins is
consistent with Resolution 68 -16, provided that the degradation:
a. Is confined to a reasonable area;
b. Is minimized by means of full implementation, regular maintenance, and
optimal operation of BPTC measures by the Discharger;
c. Is limited to waste constituents typically encountered in domestic
wastewater;
d. Does not unreasonably affect any beneficial uses of groundwater prescribed
in the Basin Plan, and will not result in the violation of any WQO ; and
e. Is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.
30. Constituents in the wastewater effluent that present the greatest risk to degrade
groundwater include: nitrogen, TDS, and total coliform . Each of these constituents
is discussed below:
a. Nitrogen. The Primary Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) for nitrate plus
nitrite as nitrogen is 10 mg/L. (See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22, § 64431.) As a
conservative means of accounting for the fate of the various components of
total nitrogen, it is assumed that a ll nitrogen (total nitrogen) converts to
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 8
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
nitrate/nitrite. SMRs indicate an average of 15.4 mg/L for Total Nitrogen in
the effluent between January 201 8 and June 2021. During the same
timeframe, background (upgradient) groundwater total nitrogen was
3.22 mg/L at MW -1, while the downgradient groundwater total nitrogen
concentrations are 6. 37 mg/L at MW -2 and 5.13 mg/L at MW-3. The
difference between upgradient and downgradient wate r quality indicates
potential degradation of groundwater by nitrogen due to discharges to the
disposal ponds. As a result, t his Order imposes a nitrogen

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncompliance,
does not stay any Order condition. Causes for modification include, but are
not limited to, the violation of any term or condition contained in this Order, a
material change in the character, location, or volume of discharge, a change
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 20
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
in land application plans or sludge use/disposal practices, or the adoption of
new regulations by the State Water Board, Regional Water Board (including
revisions to the Basin Plan), or federal government.
21. Severability. The provisions of this Order are severable. If any provision of
this Order is found invalid, the remainder of these requirements shal l not be
affected.
Any person aggrieved by this Regional Water Board action may petition the State
Water Board for review in accordance with Water Code section 13320 and Title 23,
section 2050 et seq. The State Water Board must receive the petition by 5:00 p.m.
on the 30th day after the date of this Order; if the 30th day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or state holiday, the petition must be received by the State Water Board
by 5:00 p.m. on the next business day. Copies of the statutes and regulations
applicab le to filing petitions are available on the State Water Board’s website and
can be provided upon request.
Order Attachments
Attachment A —Vicinity Map
Attachment B —Facility Layout
Attachment C —Process Flow Diagram
Attachment D —Monitoring and Reporting Pro gram R7 -2022-0008
ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 A-1
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT A —VICINITY MAP

ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 B-1
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT B—FACILITY LAYOUT

ORDER R7 -2022 -0008 C-1
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ATTACHMENT C —PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN
MONITORING AND REPORTING P ROGRAM R7-2022-0008
FOR
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT, OWNER/OPERATOR
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
DESERT HOT SPRINGS -RIVERSIDE COUNTY
This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) is issued pursuant to Water Code
section 13267 , subdivision (b)(1), and prescribes requirements for monitoring the
relevant wastewater system and groundwater quality at the Alan L. Horton Wastewater
Treatment Plant (WWTP or Facility) . The Mission Springs Water District (MSWD or
Discharger ) shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised
MRP is issued by the Colorado River Basin Regional Water Quality Co ntrol Board
(Regional Water Board or Board ) or its Executive Officer.
The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater treatment system (WWTP) that is
subject to Order R7 -2022-0008. The reports required herein are necessary to ensure
that the Discharger com plies with the Order. Pursuant to Water Co de section 13267, the
Discharger shall implement the MRP and shall submit monitoring reports described
herein.
A. Sampling and Analysis General Requirements
1. Testing and Analytical Methods. The collection, preservation, and
holding times of all samples shall be in accordance with U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) -approved procedures. All
analyses shall be conducted in accordance with the latest edition of either
the USEPA’s Guideli nes Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants Under the Clean Water Act (40 C.F.R. part 136) or Test
Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste: Physical/Chemical Methods
Compendium (SW-846), unless otherwise specified in the MRP or
approved by the Regional Water Board’s Executive Officer.
2. Laboratory Certification. All analyses shall be conducted by a laboratory
certified by the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water
Board) , Division of Drinking Water’s Environmental Laboratory
Accreditatio n Program (ELAP), unless otherwise approved by the
Regional Water Board’s Executive Officer.
3. Reporting Levels. All analytical data shall be reported with method
detection limits (MDLs) and with either the reporting level or limits of
quantitation (LOQs) ac cording to 40 Code of Federal Regulations part
136, Appendix B. The laboratory reporting limit for all reported monitoring
data shall be no greater than the practical quantitation limit (PQL).
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -2
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
4. Sampling Location(s). Samples shall be collected at the locatio n(s)
specified in the WDRs. If no location is specified, sampling shall be
conducted at the most representative sampling point available.
5. Representative Sampling. All samples shall be representative of the
volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of ma terial sampled. The
time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the
chain of custody form for the sample . If composite samples are collected,
the basis for sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved by
Regional Water Board sta ff.
6. Instrumentation and Calibration. All monitoring instruments and devices
used by the Discharger shall be properly maintained and calibrated to
ensure their continued accuracy. Any flow measurement devices shall be
calibrated at least once per year to en sure continued accuracy of the
devices. In the event that continuous monitoring equipment is out of
service for a period greater than 24 hours, the Discharger shall obtain
representative grab samples each day the equipment is out of service.
The Discharger shall correct the cause(s) of failure of the continuous
monitoring equipment as soon as practicable. The Discharger shall report
the period(s) during which the equipment was out of service and if the
problem has not been corrected, shall identify the step s which the
Discharger is taking or proposes to take to bring the equipment back into
service and the schedule for these actions.
7. Field Test Instruments. Field test instruments (such as those used to test
pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical conductivity) may be used provided
that:
a. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the
instruments;
b. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the
frequency recommended by the manufacturer;
c. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at
the recommended frequency; and
d. Field calibration reports are submitted .
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -3
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
8. Records Retention. The Discharger shall retain records of all monitoring
information, including all calibration and maintenance records and all
original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation,
for a minimum of five (5) years from the date of the sampl ing or
measurement. This period may be extended by request of the Regional
Water Board’s Executive Officer at any time. Records of monitoring
information shall include:
a. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurement(s);
b. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurement(s);
c. The date(s) analyses were performed;
d. The individual(s) who performed the analyses;
e. The analytical techniques or method used; and
f. All sampling and analytical results, including:
i. units of measurement used;
ii. minimum reporting limit for the analyses;
iii. results less than the reporting limit but above the method
detection limit (MDL);
iv. data qualifiers and a description of the qualifiers;
v. quality control test results (and a written copy of the
laboratory quality assurance plan);
vi. dilution factors, if used; and
vii. sample matrix type.
9. Inoperative Facility. If the Facility is not in operation, or there is no
discharge during a required reporting period, the Discharger shall forward
a letter to the Regional Water Board indicating that there has been no
activity during the required reporting period.
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -4
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
B. Influent Monitoring
1. Influent to the WWTP shall be monitoring according to the following
schedule:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleMonitoring
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Flow MGD6Measurement Daily Monthly
20°C BOD 57mg/L8 24 Hr.
CompositeMonthly Monthly
Total Suspended
Solids (TSS)mg/L24 Hr.
CompositeMonthly Monthly
Total Dissolved
Solids (TDS)mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
C. Effluent Monitoring
1. Effluent from the WWTP shall be monitored according to the following
schedule:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleMonitoring
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
20°C BOD 5 mg/L24 Hr.
Composite2x/Month Monthly
Total Suspended
Solids (TSS)mg/L24 Hr.
Composite2x/Month Monthly
pH s.u. 9Grab Weekly Monthly
Dissolved
Oxygen10 mg/L Grab Weekly Monthly
6 Million gallons per day
7 5-Day Biochemical Oxygen Demand at 20 degrees Celsius.
8 Milligrams per Liter
9 standard pH units
10 Dissolved Oxygen shall be monitored at the upper one -foot laye r of the storage or percolation ponds.
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -5
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleMonitoring
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Total Dissolved
Solids (TDS)mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrate as N mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Volatile Organic
Compounds
(VOCs)11μg/L12Grab
Annually Annually
D. Domestic Water Supply Monitoring
1. The domestic water supply shall be monitored at a location or in a manner
that is representative of actual TDS concentrations of domestic water
distributed to the community according to the following schedule:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleMonitoring
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
11 Analysis of Volatile Organic Compounds is to be accomplished using the USEPA test methods 601 and
602 or 624 .
12 micrograms per liter
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -6
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
E. Groundwater Monitoring
1. The groundwater monitoring wells shall be monitored according to the
following schedule:
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleMonitoring
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Depth to
Groundwaterft (bgs)13 Measurem
entQuarterly Quarterly
Groundwater
Elevation14 ft(msl)15 Measurem
entQuarterly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrate as N mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Fluoride mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Sulfate mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Dissolved
Solidsmg/L GrabQuarterly Quarterly
E. coli MPN/100 mL16Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Aluminum mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
VOCs mg/L Grab Annually Annually
13 Below ground surf ace.
14 Groundwater flow direction.
15 Above mean sea level.
16 Most Probable Number per 100 milliliters.
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -7
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
F. Sludge Monitoring
1. Prior to disposal, sludge that is generated at the WWTP shall be sampled
and analyzed for the following :
Constituent UnitsType of
SampleMonitoring
FrequencyReporting
Frequency
Arsenic mg/kg17Composite Annually Annually
Cadmium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Copper mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Lead mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Mercury mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Molybdenum mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Nickel mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Selenium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Zinc mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Fecal Coliform MPN/gram18Composite Annually Annually
G. Reporting Requirements
1. Daily, weekly, and monthly monitoring shall be included in the Monthly Self -
Monitoring Reports (SMRs). Monthly SMRs shall be submitted by the 15th
day of the following month. Quarterly SMRs shall be submitted by
January 15th, April 15th, July 15th, and Oct ober 15th. Annual SMRs shall
be submitted by January 31st of the following year.
2. Monthly and quarterly SMRs shall include, at a minimum, the following:
a. Cover Letter. A transmittal letter summarizing the essential points in
the report .
17 milligrams per kilogram.
18 Most Probable Number per gram.
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -8
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
b. Summary of Monitoring Data. Tables of the data collected. Each
row shall be a monitoring event and each column shall be a separate
parameter at a single location (or a single average, as appropriate).
c. Compliance Summary. Identification of any violations found since the
last report was submitted, and actions taken or planned for correcting
each violation. If the Discharger previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing
the corrective actions, reference to the previo us correspondence will
be satisfactory. If no violations have occurred since the last submittal,
this shall be stated.
d. Nitrogen Control Strategy Summary (Quarterly only). Following
approval of the nitrogen control strategy work plan as provided in
Special Provisions G.2, a summary of activities and progress
implementing the work plan.
e. Maps. Maps depicting the Facility layout and the location of sampling
points.
3. Annual SMRs shall include, at a minimum the following:
a. Cover Letter. A transmittal letter summar izing the essential points in
the report.
b. Maps. Maps depicting the Facility layout and the location of sampling
points.
c. Summary of Monitoring Data. Tables of the data collected. The
tables shall include all of the data collected to -date at each
monitoring point, organized in chronological order, with the oldest
data in the top row and progressively newer data in rows below the
top row. Each row shall be a monitoring event and each column shall
be a separate parameter at a single location (or a single average, as
appropriate).
d. Graphical Display. Graphs depicting monitoring parameters through
time, with the concentrations being the y -axis and time bein g the x -
axis. Logarithmic scales can be used for values that vary by orders of
magnitude. Individual graphs can combine multiple locations or
multiple chemicals if that allows the data to be compared more easily.
e. Pretreatment Report. Information concerning significant industrial
wastewater discharged to the treatment facility, and an affirmative
statement concerning whether there is a need to establish an industrial
pretreatment program.
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -9
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
f. Operation and Maintenance Summary. Information concerning
operation an d maintenance of the facility, including documentation
showing the calibration of flow meters and equipment, modifications to
the Operation and Maintenance Manual, and any modifications or
updates to the Discharger’s wastewater rules and/or regulations.
g. Compliance Summary. Identification of any violations found since the
last report was submitted, and actions taken or planned for correcting
each violation. If the Discharger previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule f or implementing
the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence will
be satisfactory. If no violations have occurred since the last submittal,
this shall be stated.
h. Nitrogen Control Strategy Summary. Following approval of the
nitrogen con trol strategy work plan as provided in Special Provisions
G.2, a summary of activities and progress implementing the work plan
for the past year.
4. SMRs shall be certified under penalty of perjury to be true and correct. Each
SMR submitted to the Regional Water Board shall contain the following
completed declaration :
“I declare under the penalty of law that I have personally examined and am
familiar with the information submitted in this document, and that based on
my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the
information, I believe that the information is true, accurate, and complete. I
am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations.
Executed on the _______ day of _______ at ____________________
 ____________________ (Signature)
 _____________________ (Title)”
5. The SMRs and any other information requested by the Regional Water
Board shall be signed by a principal executive officer or ranking elected
official. A duly authorized representative of the Discharger may sign the
documents if:
a. The authorization is made in writing by the person described above;
b. The authorization specified an individual or person having
responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated disposal
system; and
MRP R7 -2022 -0008 MRP -10
MISSION SPRINGS WATER DISTRICT
ALAN L. HORTON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
c. The written authorization is submitted to the Regional Water Board’s
Execu tive Officer.
6. The results of any analysis taken more frequently than required at the
locations specified in this MRP shall be reported to the Regional Water
Board.
7. As specified in Standard Provision H.16, technical reports shall be prepared
by or under t he direction of appropriately qualified professional(s). Each
technical report submitted shall contain a statement of qualification of the
responsible licensed professional(s) as well as the professional’s signature
and/or stamp of the seal.
8. As specified i n Standard Provision H.15, the Discharger shall comply with
Electronic Submittal of Information (ESI) requirements by submitting all
correspondence and reports required under MRP R7-2022-0008 and any
future revision (s) hereto, including groundwater monitoring data and
discharge lo cation data (latitude and longitude ), correspondence, and PDF
monitoring reports to the State Water Board’s GeoTracker database.
Documents too large to be uploaded into GeoTracker should be broken
down into smaller electronic files and labelled properly prior to upload ing
into GeoTracker .