FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment , and disposal
system (Facility) that provides sewerage service to the Heber Public Utilities District ,
which has a service population of approximately 3,600. The wastewater treatment plant
has a treatment (design) capacity of 1.2 million gallons per day ( MGD ) and is located in
the NE ¼ of Section 28, T16S, R14E, SBB&M18.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
The current total design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant is 1.2 MGD. The
wastewater treatment plant consists of influent screening, secondary treatment (i.e.,
oxidation ditches and an integrated fixed -film activated sludge process [IFAS]
operated in parallel), secondary clarification, and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Solids treatment consists of thickening, digestion, and dewatering .
Influent to the Facility undergoes preliminary treatment comprising two in -channel
comminutors and one Parshall Flume with an ultra -sonic flow meter. An influent
pump station consisting of thre e non -clog centrifugal pumps equipped with a
pressure transmitter/float control system transfer the wastewater to the headworks
consisting of two parallel rotary drum screens, screening washer units, vortex grit
trap, and a grit classifier. Flow from the h eadworks is sent to the splitter box which
distributes wastewater to the secondary treatment system.
The secondary treatment system consists of two oxidation ditches (each with design
capacity of 0.20 MGD) and an integrated fixed film and activated sludge (IFAS)
system using STM -aerators™ with a design capacity of 0.80 MGD. The IFAS system
is composed of two anoxic basins and two STM -aerators™ per train. The two
oxidation ditches and the IFAS unit are operated in parallel. Treated wastewater
from the secon dary treatment units is then directed to two secondary clarifiers.
Clarified effluent is disinfected using UV disinfection prior to discharge to the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on December
30, 2020, that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit
term.
HEBER PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT ORDER R7 -2022 -0007
MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104370
F-9
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE T3.