FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
The D ischarger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment , and disposal
system (Facility) that provides sewerag e service to the City of Holtville , which has a
population of approximately 6,600. The wastewater treatment plant has a treatment
(design) c apacity of 0.85 MGD and is located in the SW ¼ of Section 21, T15S,
R15E, SBB&M17.
Raw sewage first enters the septage receiving station where it’s mixed with air in the
septage holding tanks . The raw sewage is then received at the headworks, where
it’s pas sed through a grit chamber to separate solid particles. Wastewater is then
mixed with activated slu dge in the mixed liquor structure , and it is subsequently
directed to a 170 feet (ft) x 124 ft Biolac ® aeration basin where air is once again
introduced into the sewage water. Wastewater discharged from the Biolac ® aeration
basin is then passed through two (2) secondary clarifiers (40 ft x 43 ft) in parallel.
Sludge collected from the secondary clarifiers is dewatered at a rotary drum
thickener and then pumped to six (6) sludge drying beds (three (3) sludge beds
measuring 70 ft x 38 ft and three (3) more measuring 92 ft x 40 ft). The sludge drying
beds are equipped with sand filters and perforated underdrains. Leachate collected
from the drying beds is pumped b ack to the headworks for reprocessing. After
drying, the sludge is hauled away to a farm in Arizona.
There is an option for the use of a secondary effluent p ump station and continuous
backwash upflow filter if deemed necessary by the operational staff. The wastewater
from the secondary clarifiers flows through a ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system and
an effluent flow metering system before being discharged to the Pear Drain . The
effluent flows approximately 180 yards prior to entering the Alamo River, a water of
the United State s (WOTUS) .
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on
November 09, 2020, that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the
upcoming permit term.
CITY OF HOLTVILLE ORDER R7-2022 -0005
MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0104361
F-9
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE T3.