FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collect ion, treatment and disposal
system (Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 8,000 located
in the City of Calipatria as well as the Cal ipatria State Prison. The wastewater
treatment plant has a treatment capacity of 1.73 MGD and is l ocated in the SE
quadrant of Section 6, T12S, R14E, SBB&M.
2.A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Wastewater from the City of Calipatria and the Calipatria State Prison is collected
at two lift stations. The Delta Lift Station receives all the city’s sewage and pumps it
to the Facility through a 10 -inch diameter, 2 -mile long PVC force main. The lift
station located at the Calipatria State Prison pumps sewage to the Facility through
a 12-inch diameter, 2.5 -mile long force main. T he Delta Lift Station does not
employ preliminary treatment before conveying the city’s raw sewage to the
Facility. The prison ’s lift station is equipped with a comminutor and a rotating bar
screen to remove large solids and floatable materials before con veying the
Calipatria State Prison’s raw sewage to the Facility.
The wastewater treatment plant consists of a four -cell aerated lagoon system.
Treatment consists of removal of large solids and floatable materials by a
comminutor and rotating bar screen at Calipatria State Prison’s lift station only (the
city’s lift station does not undergo preliminary treatment); clarification wi thin the
Facility’s four aerated lagoon ponds operating in series; and disinfection with
sodium hypochlorite and dechlorination w ith sodium bisulfite. To date, the WWTP
has not generated sufficient accumulated solids to warrant removal.
Wastewater is disch arged from Discharge Point 001 to the “G” Drain, a tributary to
the Alamo River, a water of the United States.
2.B. Discharge Poi nts and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated within the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on
October 18, 2019, that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the
upcoming permit term.
3.