FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater col lection, treatment , and disposal
system (hereinafter referred to as the Facility) and provides service to the City of
Imperial, service to a population of approximately 18,000. The wastewater treatment
plant has a treatment (design) capacity of 2.4 MGD an d is loca ted in Section 7,
T15S, R14E, SBB&M.
The current wastewater treatment plant consists of an influent pumping station, grit
chamber, anoxic basins, aeration basins, membrane bioreactor treatment train,
ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system, and sl udge dewatering screw press, and drying
beds. Was tewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see Table 2) to the
Dolson Drain, a water of the United States, tributary to the Alamo River via Lilac
Drain and Rose Drain, within the Salton Sea Watershed. Attachment B provides a
map of the area around th e Facility. Attachment C provides a flow schematic and
site plan of the Facility.
The wastewater treatment plant consists of a single treatment train and a final
ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system. Bios olids are wasted from the treatment system
and de watered utilizing a mechanical screw press and/or drying beds. Raw
wastewater from the City of Imperial reaches the Facility via two main conveyance
lines: the “N” Line and the “15th Street” line to a centra l pump sump. The influent
pump station then trans fers raw wastewater to the gravity separator, which
comprises two screened horizontal troughs that are manually cleaned. Screened
materials are collected and placed in a dumpster for subsequent transport to landfill.
Treatment Train: Raw wastewater from t he influent wetwell is pumped to the
influent fine screens and then flows through the grit removal system. Following the
grit removal system, flow enters the aeration basin mixing box where raw influent is
mixed with return activated sludge. From the mixi ng box, flow is pumped into the
anoxic and aeration basins. The membrane bioreactor (MBR) follows the aeration
basin where the membrane permeate pumps pull water through the hollow fiber
membranes. The MBR e ffluent is delivered to the ultraviolet (UV) disi nfection system
prior to discharge to the Dolson Drain.
Return activated sludge (RAS) is pumped from the MBR basins to the aeration basin
mixing box. Waste activated sludge (WAS) from the MBR basins is pum ped to the
screw press for dewatering or to the s ludge drying beds. Any surface scum from the
MBR is conveyed to dewatering basins along with WAS. Dried biosolids are
transported to a landfill following adequate drying.
UV Disinfection System: The treat ed effluent from the MBR system is conveyed to
the UV disinfection system. The UV system is comprised of one channel equipped
CITY OF IMPERIAL ORDER R7 -2021 -0002
IMPERIAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0104400
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEETwith two racks in series of Trojan 3000 Plus equipment (open channel) and is sized
for a 3 MGD flow.
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated within the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on March
30, 2020, that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit
term.
3. APPLICABLE PLAN S, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs purs uant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California W ater Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act and implementing regulations
adopted by the USEPA and chapter 5.5, divis ion 7 of the Water Code (commencing
with section 13370). It shall serve as an NPDES permit for point source discharges
from this Facility to waters of the United States .
3.B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
This Order serves as both an NPDES permit for discharges subject to the Clean
Water Act and as W DRs for discharges subject to the California Water Code.
Pursuant to Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is
exempt from CEQA (Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq.). Under California
Code of Regulations, title 14, section 1 5301, the Colorado River Basin Water Board’s
action in approving those parts of the Order that implement state law is also exempt
from CEQA, because the Facility is an existing facility wit h negligible or no expansion
of existing use.
3.C. State and Federa l Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
3.C.1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Colorado
River Basin Region (Basin Plan), which was adopted on November 17 , 1993 and
amended most recently on January 8, 2019 , designates ben eficial uses,
CITY OF IMPERIAL ORDER R7-2021 -0002
IMPERIAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA 0104400
F-10
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE Testablishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and
policies to achieve those objectives for all waters addressed through the plan. The
requirements in this Order implement the Basin Plan and protect existing and
potential beneficial uses of the