Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
4. The wastewater treatment plant consists of preliminary and secondary treatment, and
solids and effluent disposal systems. The process flow is shown in Attachment B
(Process Flow Diagram), made part of this Board Order by reference.
5. Untreated wastewater flows to the preliminary treatment system, w hich consists of a bar
screened by -pass channel, one channel grinder, one comminutor and a gravity grit
collection box. Wastewater from the preliminary treatment system gravity flows to one of two oxidation ditch units with integral clarifiers for secondary (biological) treatment. Each
oxidation ditch unit has a rated treatment capacity of 0.09 MGD. The effluent from the
secondary treatment system flows to one of three evaporation/inflitration ponds for
disposal.
6. Scum and sludge wasting from the integral clarifiers are pumped to one of the nine sludge-
drying beds. The scum, sludge, grit and screenings collected are transported to the Alan
L. Horton Wastewater Treatment Plant located in Desert Hot Springs, for disposal with its
sludge, grit and screenings . A private contractor hauls away the combined solids to a land
fill or a private composting facility.
Mission Springs Water District Board Order R7 -2014- 0048
Desert Crest WWTP Waste Discharge Requirements


2 7. The Discharger ’s Self -Monitoring Reports (SMR s) from January 2009 through December
2013 characterize the WWTP effluent as follows:
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 0.044 0.064 0.029
20o C BOD 51 mg/L2 8.2 27 2.5
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 19 65 2.0
pH pH units 7.05 7.45 6.67
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 615 761 470
Nitrate as N mg/L 30 44 17
Total Nitrogen mg/L 30 39 17
Hydrogeologic Conditions
8. Annual precipitation in the region averages about 5 inches. Annual e vapotranspiration
rate in the vicinity is approximately 60 inches.
9. There are no surface water s in the vicinity of the evaporation/percolation ponds . An
ephemeral wash borders the southwest corner of the WWTP .
10. There are no domestic wells within 1,000 feet of the on- site evaporation/percolation ponds .
There are some g roundwater wells in the area are used for hot mineral spas .
11. The Discharger reports that the depth t o groundwater is 180 feet .
12. The Discharger reports that the soil profile in the area of the facility consists of sandy soil,
fine to coarse, clean angular whitish gray and dry. Some boulders to 18 inches and rocks
to nine inches. The soils in the area typically have high a infiltration rate.
13. Water supply to the community is from groundwater production wells located in the
Mission Creek Subbasin. TDS in the water supply averages about 480 mg/L based on
values reported in MSWD’s SMRs from January 2009 through December 2013.
14. Regional groundwater flow in the area is generally from the west to the east.
15. The site is located in a seismically active desert region.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
16. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Colorado River Basin Region of California (Basin
Plan), adopted November 17, 1993 and amended November 16, 2012, designates the
beneficial uses of ground and surface waters in this Region, and contains implementation

1 5-day biochemical oxygen demand at 20 degrees Celsius.
2 milligrams per Liter
Mission Springs Water District Board Order R7 -2014- 0048
Desert Crest WWTP Waste Discharge Requirements


3 programs and policies to achieve objectives.
17. The discharge is within the Coachella Hydrologic Unit . The beneficial uses of groundwater
in the Coachella Hydrologic U nit include:
a. Municipal supply (MUN),
b. Industrial supply (IND), and
c. Agricultural supply (AGR) .
18. WDR s implement numeric and narrative water quality objectives for ground and surface
waters established by the Basin Plan. The numeric objectives for groundwater designated
for municipal and domestic supply are the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs ) and
bacteriological limits specified in s ection 64421 et seq. of Title 22, of the C alifornia Code of
Regulations (CCR) . The narrative objectives are:
a. Ground water for use as domestic or municipal water supply (MUN) shall not contain
taste or odor -producing substances in concentrations that adversely affect beneficial
uses as a result of human activity (Basin Plan, page 3- 8).
b. Discharges of water softener regeneration brines, other mineralized wastes, and toxic wastes to disposal facilities which ultimately discharge in areas where such
wastes can percolate to ground water usable for domestic and municipal purposes
are prohibited (Basin Plan, page 3- 8).
19. It is the policy of the State of California that every human being has the right to safe, clean,
affordable, and accessible water adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitary
purposes. This order promotes that policy by requiring discharges to meet maximum
contaminant levels designed to protect human health and ensure that water is safe for
domestic use.
20. Section 13267 of the California Water Code ( CWC ) authorizes the Colorado River Basin
Water Board to require technical and monitoring reports. The Monitoring and Reporting
Program (MRP) establishes monitoring and reporting requirements to implement federal
and state requirements.
21. This Order establishes WDR s pursuant to Division 7, Chapter 4, Article 4, of the CWC for
disch arges that are not subject to regulati on under Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402
(33 U.S.C. s ection 1342).
22. Pursuant to CWC section 13263(g), the discharge of waste is a privilege, not a right, and
adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the discharge.
23. The dis charge authorized by this Order, and treatment and storage facilities associated
with discharges of treated municipal wastewater, except for discharges of residual
sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the requirements of the Consolidated
Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste, as set forth
in Title 27, C CR, Division 2, Subdivision 1 . This exemption is based on s ection 20090(a)
of Title 27, which states in relevant part that discharges o f domestic sewage or treated
effluent are exempt provided that such discharges are regulated by WDRs, or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water quality
Mission Springs Water District Board Order R7 -2014- 0048
Desert Crest WWTP Waste Discharge Requirements


4 objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal WWTP' s,
provided that residual sludges or solid waste from WWTP’ s shall be discharged only in
accordance with the applicable Title 27 provisions.
Groundwater Degradation
24. State Water Board Resolution 68-16, “Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality
Waters of the State” (Resolution 68- 16) states:
“Whenever the existing quality of water is better than the quality established in policies as
of the date on which such policies become effective, such existing high quality will be
maintained until it has been demonstrated to the State that any change will be consistent
with maximum benefit to the people of the State, will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated beneficial use of such water and will not result in water quality less than that
prescribed in the policies. ”
Resolution 68- 16 further states:
“Any activity which produces or may produce a waste or increased volume or
concentration of waste and which discharges or proposes to discharge to existing high
quality waters will be required to meet waste discharge requirements which will result in
the best practicable treatment or control [BPTC] of the discharge necessary to assure that
(a) a pollution or nuisance will not occur and (b) the highest water quality consistent with
maximum b enefit to the people of the State will be maintained.”
25. Some degradation of groundwater from the discharge to the evaporation/percolation
ponds is consistent with Resolution 68-16, provided that the degradation:
a. Is confined to a reasonable area;
b. Is minimized by means of full implementation, regular maintenance, and optimal
operation of BPTC measures;
c. Is limited to waste constituents typically encountered in domestic wastewater; and
d. Does not result in the loss of any beneficial use as prescribed in the applicable basin
plan, or violation of any water quality objective.
26. The discharge of wastewater from the WWTP , as permitted herein, reflects BPTC. The
controls assure the discharge does not create a condition of pollution or nuisance, and
that water quality will be maintained which is consistent with the anti -degradat ion
provisions of Resolution 68-16. The WWT P incorporates:
a. Technology for secondary or tertiary treated disinfected domestic wastewater;
b. Solids handling facilities;
c. An operation and maintenance manual;
d. Staffing to assure proper operation and maintenance; and
e. A standby emergency power generator of sufficient size to operate the treatment plant and ancillary equipment during periods of loss of commercial power.
27. Constituents in domestic wastewa ter effluent that present t he greatest risk to
Mission Springs Water District Board Order R7 -2014- 0048
Desert Crest WWTP Waste Discharge Requirements


5 groundwater quality are nitrogen, coliforms (pathogen -indicator organisms), and TDS.
The WWT P provides substantial removal of soluble organic matter, solids, and some
nitrogen treatment . Groundwater in the vicinity of the discharge is not used for municipal
or domestic supply , however, it is used as supply for hot mineral spas . Water quality
data is not available for the h ot mineral spring wells. There are no groundwater
monitoring wel ls in the vicinity of the discharge, therefore the degree of degradation by
waste constituents to groundwater, if any , may not properly be assessed at this time.
28. Title 22, CCR section 64431, Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) for Nitrate plus Nitrite
as Nitro gen is 10 mg/L. To account for the fate of transport for the various components
of Total N itrogen, as a conservative value it is assumed that all nitrogen present
converts to nitrate/nitrite. MSW D’s SMRs repor t an average of 30 mg/L for total nitrogen
between January 2009 and December 2013 in the effluent . Degradation by nitrogen, if
any, will be limited to the area in the vicinity of the evaporation/percolation ponds and,
given the volume of the discharge, degradation by nitrates sh ould not be significant .
29. While s econdary treatment reduces fecal coliform densities by 90 to 99%, the remaining
organisms in effluent are still 105 to 106 MPN/100 ml (United States Environmental
Protection Agency, Design Manual, Municipal Wastewater Disinfection; Octo ber 1986).
Given the depth to groundwater, it is not likely that pathogen- indicator bacteria will reach
groundwater at densities exceeding those prescribed in Title 22, CCR.
30. The typical incremental addition of dissolved salts from domestic water usage is 150 to
380 mg/L. Domestic water s upply to the community showed an average of about 480
mg/L during the period of January 2009 to December 2013 . The average TDS increase
over the domestic water supply for this facility during the same time period was about
134 mg/L. The CDPH recommends that the concentration of TDS in drinking water be
limited to 500 mg/L as a secondary MCL (CCR , Title 22, s ection 64449).
31. Treated wastewater discharged by MSWD has a TDS limit of a maximum of 400 mg/L above the domestic sou rce water as regulated by Board Order 01 -019. From January
2009 to December 2013 treated wastewater discharged by the MSWD had an average
TDS concentration of approximately 615 mg/L. The regulatory limit of 400 mg/L above
the domestic source water has been successfully maintained by the MSWD and
reasonably protects present and anticipated beneficial uses of groundwater in the area;
therefore, is not likely that groundwater will exhibit significant degradation by TDS.
32. Groundwater limits equal to water qual ity objectives for indicator waste constituents are
appropriate and protective of water quality objectives. MSWD provides a valuable
service to the community that is protective of human health and the environment and
contribute s to economic development in the area. These factor s when taken in
conjunction with associated increase in waste constituents are consistent with maximum
benefit to the people of the State. Accordingly, the discharge as authorized is consistent with the anti -degradation provisions of Resolution 68- 16 and the applicable water quality
objectives .
33. The discharge will be subject to any requirements which may be imposed by a salt and nutrient management plan (SNMP), currently being developed by the Coachella Valley
Integrated Regional Water Management Plan (IRWMP) group, as required by the
Recycled Wat er Policy. The Discharger is participating in the IRWMP effort to develop
Mission Springs Water District Board Order R7 -2014- 0048
Desert Crest WWTP Waste Discharge Requirements


6 the SNMP.
Stormwater
34. Federal regulations for storm water discharges were promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency on November 16, 1990, (40 CFR Parts 122, 123, and
124) to implement the Clean Water Act’s storm water program set forth in Clean Water Act
section 402(p) (33 U.S.C. section 1342(p).). In relevant part, the regulations require
specific categories of facilities that discharge storm water associated with industrial activity
to “waters of the United States” to obtain NPDES permits and to require control of such
pollutant discharges using Best Availabl e Technology Economically Achievable (BAT) and
Best Conventional Pollutant Control Technology (BCT) to prevent and reduce pollutants
and any more stringent controls necessary to meet water quality standards. Facilities
used in the storage, treatment, recy cling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic
sewage, including land dedicated to the disposal of sewage sludge that are within the confines of the facility with a design flow of one million gallons a day or more, or required
to have an approved pretreat ment program under 40 CFR Part 403, are considered to be
engaging in “industrial activity” for purposes of the Clean Water Act’s storm water
program. Because the facility has a design flow of only 0.18 MGD, it is not subject to the
federal regulations for discharges of storm water associated with industrial activity.
CEQA and Public Participation
35. In accordance with s ection 15301, Chapter 3, Title 14, CCR, the issuance of these WDRs,
which govern the operation of an existing facility involving negligible or no expansion of
use beyond that previously existing, is exempt from the provisions of the California
Environmental Quali ty Act (Public Resources Code, s ection 21000 et seq.).
36. The Colorado River Basin Water Board has notified the Discharger and all known
interested agencies and persons of its intent to draft WDRs for this discharge, and has
provided them with an opportunity for a public meeting and an opportunity to submit
comments.
37. The Colorado River Basin Water Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all
comments pertaining to this discharge.

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that Board Order 01- 019 is rescinded upon the effective date of this
Order , except for enforcement purposes, and, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division
7 of t he California Water Code, and regulations adopted thereunder, the Discharger shall comply
with the fol lowing :
A.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

