existing facility”
with negligible or no expansions in use . (See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, 15301.)
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
56. This Order is also issued pursuant to Water Code section 13267,
subdivision (b)(1), which provides that the Colorado River Basin Water Board
may require that persons discharging waste within the region “shall furnish, under
penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports…,” provided that the
discharger’s burdens of compliance, including costs, is reasonable relative to the
need for the submittals and the benefits to be obtained.
11For the purposes of this requirement, a “disadvantaged community” is defined as a
“community in which the median household income is less than 80 percent of the
statewide annual median household income level.” (Wat. Code, § 13149.2, subd. (f)(1).)
12For the purposes of this requirement, a “tribal community” is defined as a “community
within a federally recognized California Native American tribe or nonfederally
recognized Native American tribe on the contact list maintained by the Native American
Heritage Commission for the purposes of Chapter 905 of the Statutes of 2004.”
(Wat. Code, § 13149.2, subd. (f)(2).)
13Water Code section 13149.2 incorporates the general definition of “environmental
justice” in Public Resources Code section 30107.3, subdivision (a): “the fair treatment
and meaningful involvement of people of all races, cultures, incomes, and national
origins, with respect to the development, adoption, implementation, and enforcement of
environmental laws, regulations, and policies.” (Wat. Code, § 13149.2, subd. (f).)
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2024 -0020 14
SALTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
THOMAS R. CANNELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
IMPERIAL COUNTY
57. The various notifications, technical reports and monitoring program reports
required under this Order, including those contained within the Monitoring and
Reporting Program (MRP) in Attachment A , are necessary to ensure
compliance with the WDRs.
58. In accordance with section 13267, the burdens of monitoring and reporting
imposed on the Discharger under this Order and the separately adopted MRP,
are reasonable relative to the need for compliance described above.
59. The Executive Officer may issue a Revised MRP as a standalone order, pursuant
to her delegated authority under Water Code section 13223 and Colorado River
Basin Water Board Resolution R7 -2022 -0036. Upon issuance, the Revised MRP
shall supersede the provisi ons of Attachment A .
Scope of Order
60. This Order , which prescribes WDRs for the discharge of nonhazardous
wastewater to land in accordance with the Basin Plan, is exempt from the
prescriptive standards for solid waste disposal set forth in California Code of
Regulations, title 27 (Title 27), section 200 05 et seq. (Title 27, § 20090, subd.
(b).)
61. Nothing in this Order shall be construed as preempting or superseding otherwise
applicable regulatory requirements issued by local, state, or federal agencies.
Public Participation
62. In developing these WDRs, Colorado River Basin Water Board staff have
complied with Water Code section 189.7, subdivision (a)(1), which requires
“equitable, culturally relevant community outreach to promote meaningful civil
engagement from potentially impacted communities of proposed discharges of
waste that may have disproportionate impacts on water quality in disadvantaged
communities or tribal co mmunities ….”
63. The Discharger s and other interested public agencies and persons were notified
of the Board’s intent to prescribe the WDRs in this Order, and provided an
opportunity to submit their written views and recommendations at a public
hearing. (Wat. Code, § 13167.5.)
64. The Colorado River Basin Water Board, in a public meeting, heard and
considered all timely comments pertaining to this discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2024 -0020 15
SALTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
THOMAS R. CANNELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
IMPERIAL COUNTY
REQUIREMENTS
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED , pursuant to Water Code sections 13263 and 13267 , that
Order R7-2018-0013 is rescinded (except for enforcement purposes), and that the
Discharger shall comply with the following requirements .
A. Prohibitions
1. Waste classified as “hazardous,” as defined in Title 27, section 20164, or
constituting “designated waste,” as defined in Water Code section 13173,
shall not be discharged at the Facility.
2. The storage, treatment, or disposal of waste at the Facility shall not cause
conditions constituting a “contamination,” “pollution,” or “nuisance,” as
defined per subdivisions (k), (l), and (m) of Water Code section 13050.
3. Waste water shall not be permitted to bypass the aeration / percolation
ponds relied upon for compliance with this Order , or otherwise be
permitted to overflow from its designated containment structures.
4. Waste shall not be discharged at a location other than the Designated
Disposal Area specified in Finding 10, or in a manner other than
as described in the findings generally .
5. Wastewater shall not be discharged from the Facility into surface waters
or surface drainage courses .
6. The discharge of wastewater to land not controlled by the Discharger, or
not authorized for such use, is prohibited.
7. Objectionable odors, originating from the Facility and associated with the
generation, treatment, storage, or disposal of waste, shall not be
perceivable beyond the boundaries of the Facility or areas not
owned/controlled by the Discharger .
8. The Discharger shall not accept waste in excess of the treatment capacity
of the disposal system.
9. Surfacing or ponding of wastewater outside of the designated disposal
locations is prohibited.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2024 -0020 16
SALTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
THOMAS R. CANNELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
IMPERIAL COUNTY
B. Discharge Specifications
1. Wastewater shall be discharged to the Designated Disposal Area , as
described in Finding 10.
2. All Facility systems and equipment shall be operated to optimize the
quality of the effluent .
3. All conveyance, treatment, storage, and disposal systems shall be
designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to prevent inundation or
washout due to floods with a 100 -year return frequency.
4. Public contact with wastewater at the Facility shall be prevented through
such means as fences, signs, or acceptable alternatives.
5. The Discharger shall design, construct, operate, and maintain all Facility
impoundments sufficiently to protect the integrity of containment dams and
berms and prevent overtopping and/or structural failure. The operating
freeboard in any impoundments shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically from the lowest possible point of overflow).
6. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall
have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow,
design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration during
the winter while ensuring compliance with a ll requirements of this Order.
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation
using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with
historical rainfall patterns.
7. On or about 1 October of each year, available capacity shall at least equal
the volume necessary to comply with Sections B.5and B.6.
8. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent
breeding of mosquitoes. Specifically:
a. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that
small coves and irregularities are not created around the perimeter
of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the
water surface.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2024 -0020 17
SALTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
THOMAS R. CANNELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
IMPERIAL COUNTY
d. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito
Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding
as needed to supplement the above measures.
9. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal
berms that separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall
be designed and constructed under the supervision of a California
Registered Civil Engineer.
10. Wastewater within any unlined impoundment (including the Designated
Disposal Area) shall not have a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.0.
11. Beginning in 2024, t he Discharger shall monitor sludge accumulation in
each Facility impoundment at least every five years , and periodically
remove sludge as necessary to maintain adequate storage capacity.
Specifically, if the estimated volume of sludge in the reservoir exceeds five
percent of the permitted reservoir capacity, the Discharger shall complete
sludge cleanout with in 12 months after the date of the estimate.
12. The aeration /percolation ponds shall be maintained so that they
continuously operate in aerobic conditions. The dissolved oxygen content
in the upper zone (one foot) of the aeration/ percolation ponds shall be
equal to or greater than 1.0 mg/L. If there is little or no water in the ponds,
the monitoring report shall state “No standing water in ponds and/or not
sufficient water in the ponds to sample safely” in place of reporting
dissol ved oxygen concentration.
C.