R14E, SBB&M.
The Facility consists of three raw water lift stations, a headworks facility, three wave
oxidation Biolac® activated sludge treatment units equipped with diffusers that
provide extended aeration, three secondary clarifiers, an activated sludge pumping
station, an ultraviolet disinfection system, and solar greenhouse sludge drying
structures.
Raw wastewater is directed through the plant headworks, which consists of a step
screen, compactor, vortex grit pump, and a grit separator. Wastewater receives
extended aeration through the three Biolac® activated sludge treatment system s,
whi
ch consists of the primary treatment for the wastewater . The Discharger
conver ted one of the inactive primary clarifiers into a sludge thickening unit and the
other inactive primary clarifier into a sludge holding tank. Wasted activated sludge is
thickened in a sludge thickening unit, dewatered in a centrifuge sludge dewatering
unit, and then dried in two solar greenhouse sludge drying structures. The Facility
produces Class A biosolids. The Biolac® process operates without primary
treatment; therefore, no primary sludge is produced during the treatment process.
The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater collection system, whic h
provides conveyance of raw wastewater to the treatment facility. The collection
system contains both combined and separate sanitary sewer lines.
The Discharger indicated on USEPA Form 2A, there are currently three significant
industrial user s (Pioneers Memorial Hospital , One World Beef, GloriAnn Farms ) that
discharge to the Facility . The Discharger’s Pretreatment Program, submitted to the
Regional Water Board in January 2013 and re -submitted December 23, 2013,
received approval March 20, 2014 through Resolution R7 -2014 -0020.
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on September
25, 2019, that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit
term.
3.