FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) and provides service to an inmate population of approximately 3000
individuals located at the Centinela State Prison in Imperial County . The permitted
maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant which is 0.96 MGD . The Facility is located in the NE ½ of Section 36,
T15S, R11E, SBB&M20. The discharge from the Facility consists of disinfected
equivalent to secondary treated wastewater .
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The current treatment system consists of an aerated lagoon system with four cells.
The Facility was last upgraded to increase the overall treatment capacity and to
improve treatment efficiency in 2009. The headworks is comprised of coarse
mechanical screen ing with a manual bar rack in the bypass channel. Two
submersible pumps equipped with variable frequency drives pump influent to the
treatment system. Influent flow is metered and passed through mechanical fine
screening prior to treatment through the four -cell aerated lagoon treatment system.
High efficiency aerators provide aeration to the wastewater in the cells. A transfer
piping system between the cells reduces the potential for short -circuiting in the
treatment process (i.e., direct pass -through from one cell to another without
receiving adequate/full designed treatment in the aeration lagoons). The auxiliary
20San Bernardino Base & Meridian
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION ORDER R7-2024 -0019
CENTINELA STATE PRISON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA7000001
F-6
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEE Tlevee around the perimeter of the four treatment ponds provides 24 inches of
freeboard above the water surface. The Discharger may add sulfuric acid to the
chlorine chamber during summer months to control effluent pH concentrations from
exceeding the insta ntaneous maximum

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on December
19, 2023 , that there are no planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit
term.
3.