Wastewater Treatment Facility and Discharge
5. The treatment system consists of an influent pump station, three 1600 -gallon per
minute (gpm) pumps, bar screen, a mixing vault, one 1.5-MG activated sludge
basin, two 60 -foot diameter secondary clarifiers, two oil and grease separator pits
(scum pits), one 0.100 -MG oil and grease aerobic containment tank, a return
activated sludge (RAS)/waste activated sludge (WAS) pump station (two 600 -gpm
and two 900-gpm pumps), one 1.5-MG aerobic sludge digester, and ten
percolation/evaporation ponds. The WWTP also contains a 30,000 -gallon RV dump
station (three 10,000 -gallon tanks) and a septage dump station for receiving
septage waste from hauler pump trucks. Primary clarifiers, trickling filters, p rimary
and secondary anaerobic digesters, one of the chlorine contact basins and six
sludge drying beds, previously part of the treatment process, are still on -site, but
are not currently in operation. Treated wastewater is discharged to the 10
percolation /evaporation ponds. Attachment B, Process Flow Diagram, p rovides a
flow schematic of the facility, and Attachment C is a Facility Site Layout, made part
of this Board Order by this reference.
6. Wastewater from the RV dump station flows through three 10,000 -gallon tanks in
series for primary treatment and is then comingled with influent from the City of
Blythe to the WWTP. Wastewater from the septage dump station is also combined
with the influent prior to the influent pump station. Untreated wastewater flows from
the influent pump station to the bar screen and then to the mixing vault. Wastewater
from the mixing vault then flows to the 1.5 -MG activated sludge basin for primary
and secondary treatment. From the activated sludge basin, wastewater flows to the
secondary clarifiers, and then to the evaporation/ percolat ion ponds for disposal.
City of Blythe Board Order R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Discharge Req uirement
3Solids from the secondary clarifiers flow to the RAS/WAS pump station where RAS
is returned to the mixing vault, and WAS flows to the 1.5 -MG aerobic digester. Oil
and grease collected in the scum pits is pumped to the 0.100 -MG aerob ic
containment tank where it is pre -treated, then pumped to the 1.5 -MG aerobic sludge
digester for further treatment. Digested solids are then sent to the sludge drying
basin. Dried solids are hauled off-site for disposal.
7. The Discharger’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from January 2011 through
December 2015 characterize the WWTP effluent as follows:
WWTP Effluent Characterization
Constituent Units Average Maximum Minimum
Flow MGD 1.138 1.234 1.010
20o C BOD 5 1 mg/L28 26 3
TSS3mg/L 4 7 2
pH s.u.47.4 7.7 6.6
TDS5mg/L 1434 1600 1200
Nitrate as N mg/L 3.2 9.2 0.2
Total Nitrogen mg/L 8 12 1.3
Hydrogeologic Conditions
8. Annual precipitation in the Blythe region averages about 4 inches. Annual
evapotranspiration rate is approximately 70 inches.
9. A drainage ditch referenced as Lovekin Drain is located immediately to the west of
the Facility. The Discharger states that the site is adequately protected from a 100 -
year storm event.
10. There are four domestic wells in the vicinity of the on -site evaporation/p ercolation
ponds. Attachment D, ma de part of this Board Order by this reference, shows the
approximate location of the wells.
11. There is one onsite non -potable water production well that is used at the WWTP for
maintenance operations, irrigation and other non-potable uses (i.e., RV dump
station).
1 5-day biochemical oxygen dema nd at 20 degrees Celsius.
2 milligrams per Liter
3 Total Suspended Solids
4 Standard pH units
5 Total Dissolved Solids
City of Blythe Board Order R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Discharge Req uirement
412. Water supply to the community is from a total of seven groundwater production
wells, three of which are back -up wells, located in the Colorado Hydrologic Unit.
TDS in the water supply averages about 1100 mg/L based o n data reported in the
City’s SMRs from January 2011 through December 2015.
13. The TDS concentration of groundwater in the immediate vicinity of the
evaporation/percolation ponds is unknown. This Board Order requires the
Discharger to complete a groundwater monitoring network and implement a
groundwater monitoring program.
14. Depth to groundwater in the vicinity of the WWTP is between 9 and 15 feet.
15. Regional groundwater flow in the area is generally from north to south.
16. The Discharger reports that the soil in the vicinity of the WWTP from ground surface
to three feet below ground surface (bgs) is clayey sand. From a depth of three to
sixteen feet bgs, the soil is mostly sand.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
17. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Colorado River Basin Regi on of California
(Basin Plan), which was adopted on November 17, 1993, and amended on
November 13, 2012, designates the beneficial uses of ground and surface waters
in this Region, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve water
quality objectives, including narrative objectives for ground water quality, in Chapter
3, section IV, Ground Water Objectives.
18. The discharge is within the Colorado Hydrologic Unit, Palo Verde Subunit. The
beneficial uses of groun dwater in the Colorado Hydrologic Unit include:
a. Municipal supply (MUN),
b. Industrial supply (IND), and
c. Agricultural supply (AGR).
19. WDRs implement numeric and narrative water quality objectives for ground and
surface waters established by the Basin Plan. The numeric objectives for
groundwater designated for municipal and domestic supply are the maximum
contaminant levels (MCLs) specified in sections 64431, 64444, and 64678 of Title 22
of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), and the bacteriological limits specified
in section 64426.1 of Title 22, CCR.
20. It is the policy of the State of California that every human being has the right to safe,
clean, affordable, and accessible water adequate for human consumption, cooking,
and sanitary purposes. This order promo tes that policy by requiring discharges to
meet maximum contaminant levels designed to protect human health and ensure that
water is safe for domestic use.
City of Blythe Board Order R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Discharge Req uirement
521. Section 13267 of the California Water Code (CWC) authorizes the Colorado River
Basin Water Board to require technical and monitoring reports. The Monitoring and
Reporting Program (MRP) establishes monitoring and reporting requirements to
implement federal and state requirements.
22. This Order establishes WDRs pursuant to Division 7, Chapter 4, Article 4, of the
CWC for discharges that are not subject to regulation under Clean Water Act (CWA)
section 402 (33 U.S.C. section 1342).
23. Pursuant to CWC section 13263(g), the discharge of waste is a privilege, not a
right, and adoption of this Order does not create a vested right to continue the
discharge.
24. The discharge authorized by this Board Order, and treatment and storage facilities
associated with discharges of treated municipal wastewater, except for discharges
of residua l sludge and solid waste, are exempt from the requirements of the
Consolidated Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid
Waste, as set forth in Title 27, CCR, Division 2, Subdivision 1. This exemption is
based on section 20090(a) of Title 27, which states in relevant pa rt that discharges
of domestic sewage or treated effluent are exempt provided that such discharges
are regulated by WDRs, or for which WDRs have been waived, and which are
consistent with applicable water quality objectives, and treatment or storage
facilities associated with municipal WWTP's, provided that residual sludges or solid
waste from WWTP’s shall be discharged only in accordance with the applicable
Title 27 provisions. All of these Title 27 exemption condit ions have been met with
these WDRs.
Groun dwater Degradation
25. State Water Board Resolution 68-16, “Policy with Respect to Maintaining High
Quality Waters of the State” (Resolution 68 -16) states:
“Whenever the existing quality of water is better than the quality established in
policies as of the dat e on which such policies become effective, such existing high
quality will be maintained until it has been demonstrated to the State that any
change will be consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State , will not
unreasonably affect present an d anticipated beneficial use of such water and will
not result in water quality less than that prescribed in the policies.”
Resolution 68 -16 further states:
“Any activity which produces or may produce a waste or increased volume or
concentration of waste and which discharges or proposes to discharge to existing
high quality waters will be required to meet waste discharge requirements which will
result in the best practicable treatment or control [BPTC] of the discharge necessary
to assure that (a) a polluti on or nuisance will not occur and (b) the highest water
quality consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State will be
maintained.”
City of Blythe Board Order R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Discharge Req uirement
626. Some degradation of groundwater from the discharge to the
evapor ation/percolation ponds is consistent with Resol ution 68-16, provided that
the degradation:
a. Is confined to a reasonable area;
b. Is minimized by means of full implementation, regular maintenance, and optimal
operation of BPTC measures;
c. Is limited to waste con stituents typically encountered in domestic wast ewater;
and
d. Does not result in the loss of any beneficial use as prescribed in the applicable
basin plan, or violation of any water quality objective.
27. The discharge of wastewater from the WWTP, as permitted h erein, reflects BPTC.
The controls assure the discharge does not create a condition of pollution or
nuisance, and that the highest water quality consistent with maximum benefit to the
people of the State will be maintained, which is consistent with the ant i-degradation
provisions of Resolution 68 -16. Th e WWTP incorporates:
a. Technology for secondary treated disinfected domestic wastewater;
b. Solids handling facilities;
c. A proposed operation and maintenance manual;
d. A City ordinance that is comprised of a comprehe nsive set of rules and
regulations governing the design, construction, maintenance and use of public
and private sewer facilities within City jurisdictional limits;
e. Staffing to assure proper operation and maintenance;
f. A proposed network of groundwater monitoring wells; and
g. A standby emergency power gene rator of sufficient size to operate the
treatment plant and ancillary equipment during periods of loss of commercial
power.
Accordingly, the discharge as authorized is consistent with the anti -degradation provisions
of Resolution 68 -16 and the applicable w ater quality object ives.
Constituents of Concern
28. Constituents in domestic wastewater effluent that present the greatest risk to
groundwater quality are nitrogen, coliforms (pathogen -indicator organisms), and
TDS. The WWTP provides substantial removal of soluble organic matte r, solids,
and some nitrogen treatment.
29. Title 22, CCR, section 64431, Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) for Nitrate plus
City of Blythe Board Order R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Discharge Req uirement
7Nitrite as Nitrogen is 10 mg/L. To account for the fate of transport for the various
components of Total Nitrogen, as a conservative value it is assumed that all
nitrogen present converts to nitrate/nitrite. The City’s SMRs report an average of
8.0 mg/L for Total Nitrogen between January 2011 and December 2015. Therefore,
this Board Order requires the Discharger to comple te a groundwater -monitoring
network and implement a groundwater -monitoring program to determine groundwater
degradation for Total Nitrogen.
30. While secondary treatment reduces fecal coliform densities by 90 to 99%, the
remaining organisms in effluent are still 105 to 106 MPN/1 00 ml (United States
Environmental Protection Agency, Design Manual, Municipal Wastewater
Disinfection ; October 1986). Given the depth to groundwater, it is likely that
pathogen -indicator bacteria will reach groundwater at densities exce eding those
prescri bed in Title 22, CCR. Therefore, this Board Order requires the Discharger to
complete a groundwater -monitoring network and implement a groundwater -
monitoring program to determine groundwater degradation for pathogen -indicator
bacteria.
31. The typical incremen tal addition of dissolved salts from domestic water usage is
150 to 380 mg/L. Domestic water supply to the community showed an average of
about 1,100 mg/L during the period of January 2011 to December 2015. The
average TDS increase over the domestic water supply for this facility during the
same time period was about 331 m g/L. Treated wastewater discharged by the City
had a TDS limit of a maximum of 400 mg/L above the domestic source water as
regulated by Board Order R7- 2005 -0103. From January 2011 to December 2015
treated wastewater discharged by the City had an average TDS concentration of
approximately 1434 mg/L. Given the depth to ground water and the effluent
discharge concentrations for TDS, it is likely that ground water degradatio n by
salinity has occurred. Since groundwater monitoring in the immediate vicinity of the
WWTP has not been implemented, the degree of degradation of groundwater is
unknown. This Board Order requires the Discharger to complete a groundwater -
monitoring netw ork and implement a groundwater -monitoring program to determine
groundwater degradation. In addition, the Discharger is required to conduct a salinity
source study and to identify salinity reduction strategies, which may include
incentivizing the use of reverse osmosis over ion -exchange water softeners.
32. The Discharger has not always complied with the regulatory limit of 400 mg/L above
the domestic source water for TDS. The Discharger faces a numeric

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes or anticipated noncomp liance, does
not stay any Board Order condition. Causes for modification include a change in
land applicat ion plans, or sludge use or disposal practices, and adoption of new
regulations by the State or Colorado River Basin Water Board (including revisions
to the Basin Plan), or Federal government.
I, Jose L. Angel , Executive Officer , do hereby certify the foregoing is a full , true and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Cont rol
Board , Colorado River Basin Region , on June 30, 2016.

1 CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGION

MONITORING A ND REPORTING PROGRAM R7 -2016-0013
FOR
CITY OF BLYTHE, OWNER/OPERATOR
BLYTHE MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Blythe - Riverside County

Location of Discharge:
E ½ of the SW¼ of Section 5, T7S, R23E, SBB&M
A. Monitoring
1. This Monitoring and Reporting Progr am (MRP) describes requirements for
monitoring a wastewater system and groundwater quality (when needed). This
MRP is issued pursuant to California Water Code (CWC) section 13267. The
Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a
revised MRP is issued by the Executive Officer.
2. Water Code section 13267 states, in part:
“In conducting an investigation specified in sub division (a), the Colorado River
Basin Water Board may require that any person who has discharged,
discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who
proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any citizen or domiciliary, or
political agency or entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is
suspected of having discharged or dischar ging, or who proposes to discharge,
waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of waters within its region
shall furnish, und er penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports
which the Colorado River Basin Water Board requires. The burden, including
costs, of these reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the
report and the benefits to be obtaine d from the reports. In requiring those
reports, the Colorado River Basin Water Board shall provide the person with a
written explanation with regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the
evidence that supports requiring that person to provide the reports.”
3. Water Code section 13268 states, in part:
“(a) (1) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technica l or monitoring program
reports as required by subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to
furnish a statement of compliance as required by subdivision (b) of section
13399.2, or falsifying any information provided therein, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and may be liable civilly in accordance with subdivision (b). (b)
(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a Color ado River Basin
Water Board in accordance with Article 2.5 (commencing with section 13323)
of Chapter 5 for a violat ion of subdivision (a) in an amount which shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which the violation
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
2occurs.”
4. The Discharger owns and operates the wastewater system that is subject to
Board Order R7-2016 -0013. The reports are necess ary to ensure that the
Discharger complies with the Order. Pursuant to Water Code section 13267, the
Discharger shall implement the MRP and shall submit the monitoring reports
described herein.
5. All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature o f the discharge
or matrix of material sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample
shall be recorded on the sample chain of cu stody form. If composite samples
are collected, the basis for sampling (time or flow weighted) shall be approved
by Colorado River Basin Water Board staff.
6. Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and
electrical conductivity ) may be used provided that:
a. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
b. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the
frequency recommended by the manufacturer;
c. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the
recommended frequency; and
d. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the “Reporting”
section of this MRP.
7. The collection, preservation and holding times of all samples shall be in
accordance with U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) approved
procedures. Unless otherwise approved by the Colorado River Basin Water
Board’s Executive Officer, all analyses shall be conducted by a laboratory
certified by the State Water Resources Control Board, Division of Drinkin g
Water. All analyses shall be conducted in accordance with the latest edition of the
“Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants” (40 CFR Part
136), promulgated by the USEPA.
8. All monitoring instruments and devices used by the Discharger to fulfill the
prescribed monitoring program shall be properly maintained and calibrated as
necessary to ensure their continued accuracy. In the event that continuous
monitoring equipment is out of service for period greater than 24-hours, the
Discharger shall obtain representative grab samples each day the equipment is
out of service. The Discharger shall correct the cause(s) of failure of the
continuous monitoring equipment as soon as practicab le. The Discharger shall
report the period(s) during which the equipment was out of service and if the
problem has not been corrected, shall identify the steps which the Dis charger is
taking or proposes to take to bring the equipment back into service and the
schedule for these actions.
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
39. The Discharger shall retain records of all monitoring information, including all
calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for
continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this Board
Order, and records of all data used to complete the application for this Board
Order, for a period of at least five (5) years from the date of the sampl e,
measurement, repo rt or application. This period may be extended by request of
the Colorado River Basin Water Board’s Executive Officer at any time. Records
of monitoring information shall include:
a. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measureme nt(s);
b. The individua l(s) who performed the sampling or measurement(s);
c. The date(s) analyses were performed;
d. The individual(s) who performed the analyses;
e. The analytical techniques or method used; and
f. The results of such analyses.
10. Samples shall be collected at the location spe cified in the WDRs. If no location
is specified, sampling shall be conducted at the most representative sampling
point available.
11. Given the monitoring frequency prescribed by MRP R7 -2016 -0013, if only one
sample is available for a given reporting period, compliance with monthly
average, or weekly average Discharge Specifications, will be determined from
that sample.
12. If the facility is not in operation, or there is no discharge during a required
reporting period, the Discharger shall forward a letter to the Colorado River
Basin Water Board indicating that there has been no activity during the required
reporting period.
13. The Discharger shall monitor the following locations to demonstrate compliance
with the effluent limitations, discharge sp ecification s, and other requirements in
this Order:
Monitoring
Location
Name Monitoring Location
Description Monitoring
Location
Latitude Monitoring
Location
Longitude
Influent Headworks –
Upstream of Bar
screen 33° 35’ 34.4” N 114° 35’ 58.0” W
Effluent Parshall Flume - Outfall 33° 35’ 29.3” N 114° 35’ 54.6” W
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
4Influent Monitoring
14. Influent to the WWTP shall be monitored according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow; Total Plant
Influe nt MGD1Flow Meter
Reading Daily Monthly
Flow; RV Waste
Stream Gallons Estimated
from RV dump
receipts NA Monthly
Flow, Septage Gallons Calculated
from Hauler’s
Manifests NA Monthly
200C BOD52mg/L324-Hr.
Composite Weekly Monthly
Total Suspended
Solid s mg/L 24-Hr.
Composite Weekly Monthly
Nitrate as Nitrogen (N) mg/L 24-Hr.
Composite Quarterly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen as N mg/L 24-Hr.
Composite Quarterly Quarterly
Effluent Monitoring
15. Effluent from the WWTP into the Evaporation/Percolation Ponds shall be
monitored according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow; Total Plant
Effluent into Ponds MGD Flow Meter
Reading Daily Monthly
20oC BOD 5 mg/L 24 Hr.
Composite 2x/Month Monthly
Total Suspended
Solids mg/L 24 Hr.
Composite 2x/Month Monthly
Nitrate as N mg/L 24 Hr.
Composite 2x/Month Monthly
Total Nitrogen mg/L 24 Hr.
Composite Quarterly Monthly
1 Million Gallons per Day
2 5-day Biochemical Oxyge n Demand at 20 degrees Celsius
3 milligrams per Liter
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
5Constituent Units Type of
Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Total Dissolved
Solids mg/L 24 Hr.
Composite 2x/Month Monthly
pH s.u.4Grab Monthly Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen5 mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
VOCs6 μg/L7 24 Hr.
Composite Annually Annually
Groundwater Monitoring
16. Upon completion of the groundwater monitoring system as required by Special
Provision, F.2.a, b and c, the groundwater monitoring wells shall be monitored
according to the following schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Depth to
Groundwater ft (bgs)8 measurement Quarterly Quarterly
Total Dissolved
Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrate as N mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrite as N mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Sulfate mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Fecal Coliform MPN/100mL Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Formaldehyde µg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
VOCs mg/L Grab Annually Annually
Domestic Water Supply Monitoring
17. The domestic water supply shall be a flow weighted composite sample
monitored at the water supply production wells, include notations of which wells
are non-operating for a reporting period and in accordance to the following
4 standard pH units
5 Dissolved Oxygen shall be monitored at the upper one foot layer of the
evaporation/percolation ponds.
6 Analysis of Volatile Organic Compounds is to be accomplished using the USEPA test
methods 601, 602 or 624
7 micrograms per liter
8 feet below ground sur face
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
6schedule:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Total Dissolved
Solids mg/L Composite Monthly Monthly
Sludge Monitoring
18. Prior to disposal, sludge that is generated at the WWTP shall be sa mpled and
analyzed for the following:
Constituent Units Type of
Sample Monitoring
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Arsenic mg/kg9 Composite Annually Annually
Cadmium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Chromium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Copper mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Lead mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Mercury mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Molybdenum mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Nickel mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Selenium mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Zinc mg/kg Composite Annually Annually
Fecal
Coliform MPN/gram10Composite Prior to
Disposal Annually
B. Reporting
1. The Discharger shall inspect and document any operation/maintenance
problems by inspecting each unit process. Operation and Maintenance reports
shall be submitted to the Colorado River Basin Water Board Office annually,
contain ing documentation showing the calibration of flow meters and equipment
as performed in a timely manner, modifications and updates to the Operation
and Maintenance Manual, and modifica tions and updates to the City’s waste
water ordinance or rules and regula tions.
2. The Discharger shall provide an operator certification status update including
9 milligrams per kilogram
10 Most Probable Number per gram
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
7number of staff and grade certification annually.
3. The Discharger shall report annually on the quantity, location and method of
disposal of all sludge and similar solid materials being produced at the WWTP.
If no sludge is disposed of during the year being reported, the Discharger shall
state “No Sludge Removed” in the annual monitoring report.
4. The Discharger shall provide the Colorado River Basin Water Board with an
annual report describing the pretreatment program activities over the previous
twelve -month period. The report shall be transmitted to the Colorado River
Basin Water Board office no later t han January 31 of each year and include:
a. A summary of actions taken by the Discharger which ensures industrial -user
compliance;
b. An updated list of industrial users (by SIC categories) which were issued
permits, and/or enforcement orders, and a status of compliance for each
user; and
c. The name and address of each user that received a revised discharge limit.
5. SMRs shall be certified under penalty of perjury to be true and correct, and shall
contain the required information at the frequency designated in this MRP.
6. Each Report must contain an affirmation in writing that:
"All analyses were conducted at a laboratory certified for such analyses by and
in accordance with current USEPA procedures or as specified in this Monitoring
and Reporting Program.”
7. Each Report shall contain t he following completed declaration:
"I certify under the penalty of law that this document, including all attachments
and supplemental information, was prepared under my direction or supervision
in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel
properly gathered and evaluated the information submitted. I have personally
examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this document, and
that based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for
obtaining the information, I believe that the information is true, accurate, and
complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of a fine and imprisonment.
Executed on the day of at
(Signa ture)
_(Title)”
8. The SMRs, and other information requested by the Colorado River Basin
Water Board , shall be signed by a principal executive officer or ranking
elected official.
City of Blythe Board Odder R7 -2016 -0013
Blythe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant Monitoring and Reporting Program
89. A duly authorized representative of the Discharger may sign the documents
if:
a. The authorization is made in writing by the person described above;
b. The authorization specified an individual or person having responsibility
for the overall operation of the regulated disposal system ; and
c. The written authorization is submi tted to the Colorado River Basin Water
Board's Executive Officer.
10. The Discharger shall attach a cover letter to the SMRs. The information
contained in the cover letter shall clearly identify violations of the WDRs;
discuss corrective actions taken or plann ed and the proposed time schedule
of corrective actions. Identified violations should include a description of the
requirement that was violated and a description of the violation.
11. Daily , weekly , and monthly monitoring shall be included in the monthly
moni toring report. Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the
Colorado River Basin Water Board by the 15th day of the following month.
Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted by Janu ary 15th, April 15th,
July 15th and October 15th. Annual mon itoring reports shall be submitted by
January 31st of the following year.
12. The Discharger shall comply with the Electronic Submittal of Information
(ESI) requirements by submitting all correspondence and reports required
under Monitoring and Reporting Progr am (MRP) R? -2016 -0013, and future
revisions thereto , including groundwater monitoring data and discharge
location data (latitude and longitude), correspondence , and pdf monitoring
repo rts to the State Water Resources Control Board GeoTracker database.
Docu ments that are 2.0 MB or larger should be broken down into smaller
electronic files, labelled properly and uploaded into GeoTracker.
Jose L. Angel , P. E.
Executive Officer
6/30/2016
Date

COLORADO RIVER BASIN REGIONAL
WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
Board Order R7 -2016 -0013 ATTACHMENT A
SITE VICINITY MAP
CITY OF BLYTHE, OWNER/OPERA TOR
BLYTHE MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Blythe – Riverside County
E ½ of the SW¼ of Section 5, T7S, R23E, SBB&M
WWTP
Board Order R7 -2016 -0013 ATTACHMENT B – PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
CITY OF BLYTHE, OWNER/OPERATOR, BLYTHE MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Blythe – Riverside Co unty

Board Order R 7-2016 -0013 ATTACHMENT C – SITE LAYOUT
CITY OF BLYTHE, OWNER/OPERATOR, BLYTHE MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Blythe – Riverside County
Site of
Proposed
Solar Panel
Array Lovkin Drain
Activated Sludge Basin
Aerobic Sludge Basin Sludge
Drying
Basin
RV Dump Station
Board Order R7 -2016 -0013 ATTACHMENT D – DOMESTIC WELL LOCATIONS
CITY OF BLYTHE, OWNER/OPERATOR, BLYTHE MUNICIPA L WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Blythe – Riverside County