FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment ,and disposal
system and provides sewerage service to the U.S. Navy’s Naval Air Facility El Centro
with a service population of approximately 1,580 . The permitted maximum daily flow
limitation is equal to the design capacit y of the wastewater treatment plant which is 0.3
MGD and is located in Section 25, T15S, R12E, SBB&M. The discharge consists of
disinfected secondary treated sanitary wastewater.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Control s
The treatment system consists of an influent diversion box, three equalization tanks,
an automatic bar screen, an oxidation ditch, and a secondary clarifier. Effluent is
chlorinated using sodium hypochlorite solution and dechlorinated using a sodium
bisulf ite prior to discharge. The Facility also maintains a 4-million -gallon overflow
storage pond with a synthetic liner, which can divert flow from the equalization tanks.
The Facility provides domestic sewage services to the Naval Air Facility El Centro .
Raw water leaves two pump houses and enters three 18,000 -gallon equalization
tanks, in parallel. From the equalization basins, raw water passes through the
influent junction box, a flow meter and automatic sampler, and then through an
automatic bar screen. Th e wastewater undergoes biological treatment in the
oxidation ditch, followed by solids separation in the secondary clarifier. Wastewater
is disinfected in the chlorine contact chamber by injecting sodium hypochlorite
followed by dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
A portion of the solids separated in the secondary clarifier is pumped back to the
oxidation ditch for additional treatment and the remaining portion is pumped to one
of six drying beds, dried, and placed in trash bins prior to being hauled awa y by a
contractor (currently ,Allied Waste Services) to the Allied Waste Imperial Landfill
(Imperial, CA) for disposal.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 (see table on cover page) to the
unnamed tributary to the New River. From the unnamed tributary to the New River,
effluent flows approximately 180 yards prior to entering New River, a water of the
United States.
2.B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated during a site visit conducted on July 29, 2021, that there are
no planned changes at the Facility during the upcoming permit term.
3.