FACILITY DESCRIPTION 
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls 
The Facility is a secondary treatment plant located at 399 Chandler Place, in the City 
of San Bernardino. The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastes 
generated within the Cities of San Bernardino, Highland and Loma Linda, Patton State 
Hospital, unincorporated areas of San Bernardino County, and within the service area 
of East Valley Water District. The Facility services a population of about 286,300. 
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility. 
The Facility has a design capacity of 33 mgd1 for secondary treatment and 
disinfection. The general treatment processes consists of screening and grit removal, 
followed by primary clarification, biological oxidation with nitrification and 
denitrification, secondary clarification, and chlorination. Attachment C provides a flow 
schematic of the different treatment trains at the Facility. 
Normally, effluent from the Facility is directed to the Colton/San Bernardino Regional 
Tertiary Treatment and Water Reclamation Agency's Rapid Infiltration and Extraction 
Facility for further treatment and disposal. Intermittently, the secondary treated and 
disinfected wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to Reach 5 of the Santa 
Ana River at the confluence with East Twin Creek. These discharges occur only when 
there is sufficient flow in the River to provide 20: 1 or more dilution. East Twin Creek 
and the Santa Ana River are waters of the United States. During dry years, discharges 
may occur only two to three times per year. However, during wetter periods, several 
days of discharge may occur in a single month; for example, 102 million gallons of 
treated wastewater was discharged over a 17-day period in April 2011. 
Stormwater generated onsite from one area of the Facility drains to a collection box 
with a pump installed to convey accumulated runoff to the treatment plant headworks. 
Overflow from the collection box due to high intensity storm events will discharge into 
a stormwater outfall onto East Twin Creek. Stormwater runoff from another area of 
the Facility discharges into a storm drain that leads into the City's storm drainage 
system and eventually into the Santa Ana River. 
Sludge generated at this facility is anaerobically digested and dewatered using belt 
presses and centrifuge. The dewatered sludge is hauled away by a contractor. 
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters 
The Facility is located in the northern half of Section 22, T1S, R4W, SBB&M. The 
Discharger discharges secondary treated and disinfected wastewater under conditions 
of 20:1 or more dilution into Reach 5 of the Santa Ana River at the confluence with 
East Twin Creek via Discharge Point 001, located at latitude 34° 04' 14" N and 
longitude 117° 17' 13" W. 
1 Estimated annualized average based on dry weather conditions. 
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-5 
City of San Bernardino Municipal Water Department 
Water Reclamation Facility Order No. RB-2017-0049 
NPDES No. CA0105392 
The Facility is divided into two areas with respect to stormwater collection and 
discharge. One area has a collection box where a pump has been installed to pump 
accumulated runoff to the treatment plant headworks. Occasionally, during torrential 
rainstorms, the collection box may become inundated faster than the pumps can 
transfer water to the headworks. In such cases, storm water will be discharged from 
storm water outfall S-002. The other area discharges into a storm drain (S-001) that 
leads into the City's storm drainage system and eventually into the Santa Ana River. 
C. Compliance Summary 
The Discharger has been in compliance with effluent limitations and reporting 
requirements specified in Order No. RS-2012-0051. During the permit term ending 
December 31, 2017, the Discharger reported discharges at 20:1 dilution as follows: 
Table 2. Discharge Dates 
ANNUAL PRIORITY 
#DAYS of POLLUTANT SCAN 
YEAR MONTH DISCHARGE TRIGGERS 
2013 January 25-26 2 Bromodichloromethane2 
February 20 1 
March 08-09 2 
November 21-22 2 
2014 February 28 1 Aldrin 
March 1-3 3 
2016 March 7-8 2 Bromodichloromethane2 
December 16 1 
2017 January 11-14,19-23 9 Bromodichloromethane2 
February 17-21 5 
This Order continues the requirement for the Discharger to conduct accelerated 
monitoring for those constituents that are detected in the annual priority pollutant scan 
at a concentration greater than the trigger levels specified in Attachment I of this 
Order, after accounting for a dilution rate of 20:1. A reasonable potential analysis 
(RPA) conducted on effluent data reported by the Discharger from January 2013 
through February 2017 indicated that an effluent limit for Aldrin was appropriate. This 
Order includes an effluent limit for Aldrin. 
D.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes 
The Discharger has reported its future plan for the proposed Clean Water Factory 
Project. The Clean Water Project would reduce secondary effluent conveyed from the 
Facility to the RIX Facility and instead would convey advanced treated recycled water 
to direct use customers and existing recharge basins. The project would include 
facility improvements, multiple alternative pipeline alignments for treated water 
2 Trigger was erroneously exceeded. Trigger should be based on CTR criteria: Human Health for consumption of 
Organisms Only (see Attachment I) 
Attachment F -Fact Sheet F-6 
City of San Bernardino Municipal Water Department 
Water Reclamation Facility Order No. RB-2017-0049 
NPDES No. CA0105392 
conveyance, conveyance to the RIX Facility, pump station and water storage 
infrastructure. The Discharger is in the process of obtaining the appropriate 
permits/clearances. The Discharger will need to submit a new report of waste 
discharge for this proposed project and address material changes to the Facility, 
discharge quality, locations and impacts to beneficial uses before the Regional Water 
Board can consider revising these waste discharge requirements. 
Ill.