FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
1. Facility Background
a. MWRP wastewater treatment
This Facility is a publicly owned treatment works with preliminary, primary,
secondary, and tertiary treatment capacity of 28 million gallons per day (mgd). The
plant phase II expansion project added 1 0 mgd of treatment capacity to the existing
18 mgd capacity for a total of 28 mgd. The phase II expansion project includes new
headworks, preliminary treatment, primary clarifiers, a
1 0.6-mgd capacity membrane
bio-reactor, and 21-mgd UV disinfection system. Also, the membrane bio-reactor
was built with structural flexibility for the future addition of a 5-mgd capacity
treatment module for an ultimate total treatment capacity expansion of 33 mgd (plant
phase Ill expansion project). The Facility is located at 3512 Michelson Drive, Irvine,
Orange County. This Facility treats residential, commercial, and industrial wastes
from areas within central Orange County, which includes
the City of Irvine, portions
I Irvine Ranch Water District
Water Recycling Plants
Attachment F
-Fact Sheet Order No. RB-2015-0024
NPDES No. CA8000326
Page F-7
of the Cities of Tustin, Santa Ana, Orange, Costa Mesa, and Newport Beach, and
parts of unincorporated Orange County areas. Total population served is about
331,500.
MWRP receives sewage from three main sewer trunk lines: the North Irvine
Interceptor; the South Irvine interceptor; and the Harvard Avenue Trunk sewer
(HATS). Flow from HATS is diverted in to the North Irvine Interceptor before
reaching the MWRP through a new pump station that was built in 2008 and a small
percent of sewage not captured by HATS is sent to the Orange County Sanitation
District (OCSD) for treatment.
The North Irvine Interceptor serves the Cities of Irvine, Foothill Ranch and portions
of Tustin, and provides the majority of the sewage to the treatment plant. IRWD has
the ability to bypass all or part of the sewage to OCSD through OCSD's Main Street
trunk sewer. Sewage entering the IRWD treatment plant from the north and from
HATS can be diverted directly into the Main Street trunk
sewer. All sewage solids
are pumped from the treatment plant up to the Main Street trunk sewer.
The South Irvine sewer trunk line serves the University of California, and part of the
cities of Irvine and Newport Beach. There is no diversion capacity on this sewer.
However, should the need arise; all of this sewage can be diverted to OCSD for
treatment and disposal by bringing the flow in to the plant and, then, pumping it to
the Main Street sewer through the MWRP sludge line. As a member of OCSD,
IRWD can utilize treatment and disposal at OCSD facilities in Fountain Valley.
In January 1986, the Discharger joined the Orange County Sanitation District (OCSD)
to dispose of untreated sewage generated within the Discharger's service area when
it is not needed for recycling. In February of 1987, the Discharger and OCSD
entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) governing the administration
of the Discharger's industrial pretreatment program. The MOU brought industries
considered as Class I industries by the IRWD's sewage discharge
regulations/ordinance under a joint IRWD/OCSD Class I permit, which is
administered by OCSD's ordinance. The MOU also preserves the independent
authority and responsibilities of both agencies, thereby allowing the Discharger to
operate its pretreatment program for the MWRP in compliance with Federal and
state pretreatment regulations. This Order requires the Discharger to update, as
necessary, its MOU with OCSD.
By agreement with OCSD, the Discharger acquired a capacity right of 32 mgd for the
delivery, treatment, and disposal of raw sewage to OCSD treatment facilities.
During periods of low demand for recycled water, sewage that is not needed for
recycling is diverted to OCSD Plant #1 for treatment and disposal to the Pacific
Ocean.
Order No. RB-2007 -0003 prohibited the direct discharge of tertiary treated recycled
water to surface waters, except for the three reservoirs, Rattlesnake, Syphon, and
Sand Canyon. During dry weather, when the recycled water demand is high, the
Irvine Ranch Water District
Water Recycling Plants
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Order No. RB-2015-0024
NPDES No. CA8000326
Page F-8
Discharger treats all the sewage generated within its service area and delivers all
produced recycled water to its users.
b. Groundwater Dewatering.
The MWRP is located adjacent to the San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh and San
Diego Creek. The groundwater elevation at the Facility site is high. Consequently,
dewatering of the shallow groundwater zone is necessary to protect in-ground
facilities. The area is dewatered through a network of shallow zone wells with two
separate discharge points, either into Reach 1 of San Diego Creek or into the San
Joaquin Freshwater Marsh. This Order does not regulate the discharges from the
groundwater dewatering activities as the past order did. The Regional Water Board
regulates the groundwater dewatering discharge from MWRP under the General
Discharge Permit for Discharges to Surface Waters of Groundwater Resulting from
Groundwater Dewatering Operations and/or Groundwater Cleanup Activities at Sites
within the San Diego Creek/Newport Bay Watershed Polluted by Petroleum
Hydrocarbons, Solvents, Metals and/or Salts, Order No. RB-2007-0041 (NPDES No.
CAG918002). Also, Regional Water Board issued Time Schedule Order No. RB-
2009-0069 (TSO), as amended by Order No. RB-2013-0060, to allow dischargers,
enrolled under Order No. RB-2007 -0041, additional time to comply with the numeric

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
In 2005, IRWD prepared an Environmental Impact Report for the Michelson Water
Reclamation Plant's ultimate expansion to 33 mgd and related process changes. The
comment period for this EIR closed on December 28, 2005. Final Design began in mid-
2006 and completed in early 2008. Construction was completed on the phase II
treatment expansion in 2013 and full operation of the treatment expansion started in
early 2014. The construction schedule for the phase Ill treatment expansion, which
would add 5-mgd treatment capacity, is uncertain.
IRWD is constructing a Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility at the MWRP
site, which would treat wastes from both Facilities, and includes the construction and/or
installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic digesters, centrifuges for sludge
dewatering, sludge drying equipment, anaerobically digestable material receiving station,
and microturbines for generation of electricity and heat. The microturbines would
operate with biogas produced in the anaerobic digesters. IRWD anticipates completion
of the Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility by the end of 2016.
Ill.