at RP -1 includes mechanical bar screens, grit chambers, chemical addition,
primary clarifiers, and flow equalization/emergency storage basins. Secondary
treatment consists of aeration trains with oxic/anoxic zones and secondary
clarifiers. The te rtiary treatment trains consist of coagulation/flocculation,
sedimentation, filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. The annual average
INLAND EMPIRE UTILITIES AGENCY
WATER RECYCLING FACILITIESORDER R8-2022 -0041
NPDES NO. CA8000409
SURFACE WATERS DISCHARGES AND NON -POTABLE RECYCLED WATER REUSE
ATTACHMENT F – Fact Sheet F-6influent flow for RP-1 in 2019 was 23.6 MGD, with an annual average effluent
flow of 2.3 MGD.
RP-4 is located at 12811 Sixth Street, Rancho Cucamonga. The design capacity
of RP -4 is 14.0 MGD. Preliminary and primary treatment at RP -4 includes fine -
screens, grit chambers, chemical addition, and primary clarifiers. Secondar y
treatment consists of aeration trains with oxic/anoxic zones and secondary
clarifiers. The tertiary treatment trains consist of coagulation/flocculation, filtration,
chlorination, and an emergency diversion pond. The annual average influent flow
from RP -4 in 2019 was 9.5 MGD, with an annual average effluent flow of 9.1
MGD.
RP-5 is located at 6068 Kimball Avenue, Building “C”, Chino. The design capacity
for RP-5 is 15.0 MGD and 1.3 MGD flow from the sludge treatment system at RP-
2. Preliminary and primary treatment at RP -5 includes mechanical bar screen,
vortex type grit chamber, one storage basin, and primary clarifiers. Secondary
treatment consists of aeration trains with oxic/anoxic zones and secondary
clarifiers. The tertiary tre atment trains consist of coagulation/flocculation, sand -
media filtration, chlorination, dechlorination, and an emergency overflow pond.
The annual average influent flow from RP -5 in 2019 was 7.5 MGD, with an
annual average effluent flow of 2.4 MGD. The Di scharger plans to complete by
2024 the construction phase of the treatment capacity expansion of RP -5 to 22.5
MGD, which will replace, upgrade, eliminate, and/or add treatment units. As part
of the ongoing construction activities, the Discharger will add t wo (2) new pumps
to the influent pump station (for a total of five), three (3) new bar screens, four (4)
new fine screens, and one (1) more vortex type grit chamber to the headworks,
two (2) new primary clarifiers for a total of four (4), and a new main od or control
facility with biotrickling filters and carbon polishing units (existing one to be
demolished). Also, the two (2) existing activated sludge process aeration basins
will be overhauled and upgraded with thirty -two (32) new submersible mixers and
four (4) new mixed liquor recycle pumps. The four (4) existing secondary clarifiers
and the tertiary sand -media filters will be demolished and a new 10 membrane
bioreactor (MBR) units will be built (8 equipped with membranes and two left for
future expansion ) and will include eight (8) filtrate pumps, two (2) back -pulse
pumps, and four (4) air scour blowers. The existing chlorine disinfection system
will be kept and operated (see Figure 6 of Attachment C for the new RP -5
process flow schematic after 2024).
CCWRF is located at 14950 Telephone Avenue, Chino. The design capacity for
CCWRF is 12.0 MGD. Preliminary and primary treatment at CCWRF includes
mechanical bar screen, grit removal, chemical addition, primary clarifiers, and an
emergency storage basin. Seco ndary treatment consists of aeration trains with
oxic/anoxic zones and secondary clarifiers. The tertiary treatment trains consist of
coagulation/flocculation, filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. The annual
average influent flow from CCWRF in 2019 was 7.3 MGD, with an effluent flow of
3.1 MGD.
3. Biosolids Handling Practices
INLAND EMPIRE UTILITIES AGENCY
WATER RECYCLING FACILITIESORDER R8-2022 -0041
NPDES NO. CA8000409
SURFACE WATERS DISCHARGES AND NON -POTABLE RECYCLED WATER REUSE
ATTACHMENT F – Fact Sheet F-7Primary sludge and waste activated slu dge from RP -4 is conveyed through the
sewer system and enters RP-1 as influent. Digested sludge is dewatered with belt
presses. Solids treatment at RP -1 includes gravity thickener and dissolved air
flotation thickeners, anaerobic digestion, digester gas ut ilization, and centrifuge
dewatering. Centrifuge concentrate is pumped to the Non -Reclaimable Waste
System (NRWS) line and is ultimately treated by the County Sanitation Districts of
Los Angeles County.
Primary sludge and waste activated sludge from RP -5 and CCWRF are piped to
the regional solids handling facility at RP -2 for sludge treatment. The solids
treatment system at RP -2 includes gravity thickeners; dissolved air flotation
thickeners; anaerobic digestion; aerobic digestion; belt press, and centrifug e
dewatering. Dewatered biosolids are hauled away to approved disposal sites
Sludge treatment system wastewater from RP-2 is pumped back to headworks of
RP-5. By 2024, the Discharger plans to complete its treatment capacity
expansion at RP -5 and will add a biosolids handling process, to RP -5, that will
consist one (1) acid phase digester, three (3) gas phase digesters, one (1)
digested sludge storage ta nk, and associated ancillary equipment. Also, new
solids -thickening and biosolids dewatering facilities equipped with odor control
system will be built and food waste will be fed to the digesters. Once the new
biosolids handling facilities are built and op erational at RP -5, the biosolids
handling facilities at RP -2 will be demolished.
4. Recycled Water Uses
The Discharger delivers tertiary treated wastewater through the regional recycled
water system at various locations for recycled water use. The recycled wa ter is
used for landscape irrigation by public and private users, for agricultural irrigation
by farmers, for dust control at construction sites and for industrial purposes,
including equipment/machinery cooling. The maximum annual average flow for
recycle d water uses during the term of the previous order ranged from 2.6 MGD
for RP -5 in 2018 to approximately 16.1 MGD for RP -1 in 2016. This Order also
regulates the recycled water use within the Discharger’s service area.
Recycled water from RP -1 and RP - 4 is also produced for indirect potable reuse
such as groundwater recharge, via surface application, in areas overlying the
Chino North Groundwater Management Zone. The groundwater recharge is
regulated under a separate Order (Order R8 -2007 -0039). Order R8 -2007-0039
was issued to the Discharger and the Chino Basin Watermaster to regulate the
use of recycled water for the Chino Basin Recycled Water Groundwater
Recharge Project, Phase I and Phase II. This Order (R8 -2022 -0041) does not
regulate the use of recycled water for groundwater recharge directly, however,
does implement pertinent water recycling requirements for indirect potable reuse
that relate to the production of recycled water at RP -1 and RP -4 (see section
IV.C.2.c.iii and IV.C.11. of the Order and sec tion IV.G.5. of Attachment F).
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has indicated that the RP-5 liquids treatment expansion to 22.5 MGD
and solids treatment facility is expected to be completed during the next permit term
(see discussion in section II.A. of Attachment F). A revised ROWD will be filed by the
Discharger at least 180 days before any material change is ma de in the character,
location, or volume of discharge.
III.