Facility Description: The WRCRWA is the owner of the Facility, while Western 
Municipal Water District is the operator of the Facility. The wastewater treatment 
systems consist of primary, secondary, and tertiary treatments. Treated wastewater is 
discharged from DP-001 to Reach 3 of the Santa Ana River, which is within the Prado 
Basin Management Zone (PBMZ). The Santa Ana River is a water of the United States. 
Recycled water is used in areas overlying the Temescal and Arlington Groundwater 
Management Zones. Sludge from the Facility is hauled away to a composting facility in 
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority 
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Limitations and Discharge Requirements Order No. RS-2015-0013 
NPDES No. CA8000316 
Page 6 of 36 
Arizona. Attachment B provides a map of the area around the Facility. Attachment C 
provides a flow schematic of the Facility. 
C. Legal Authorities: This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) 
pursuant to article 4, chapter 4 of the California Water Code (CWC) commencing with 
section 13260. This Order shall also serve as an NPDES permit pursuant to section 
402 of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) and Chapter 5.5, Division 7 of the 
ewe for point source discharges from this facility to surface waters. 
D. Background and Rationale for Requirements:. The Regional Water Board 
developed the requirements in this Order based on information submitted as part of the 
application, through monitoring and reporting programs, 
and other available information. 
The Fact Sheet (Attachment F), which contains background information and rationale 
for Order requirements, is hereby incorporated into this Order and constitutes part of the 
Findings for this Order. Attachments A through E and G through K are also 
incorporated into this Order. 
E. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Under Water Code section 13389, 
this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the provisions of CEQA, Public 
Resources Code section 21000 et seq. (County of Los Angeles v. California State 
Water Resources Control Board (2006) 143 Cai.App.4th 985, mod. (Nov. 6, 2006, 
B184034) 50 Cai.Rptr.3d 619, 632-636). This action also involves there-issuance of 
waste discharge requirements for an existing facility 
that discharges treated wastewater 
and as such, is exempt from the provisions of California Environmental Quality Act 
(commencing with Section 21100) in that the activity is exempt pursuant to Title 14 of 
the California Code of Regulations Section 15301. The environmental impact report 
had been received and reviewed by the staff and found that there are no any harmful 
impact to the environment from this discharge. 
F. Technology-based Effluent Limitations. Section 301 (b) of the CWA and 
implementing USEPA permit regulations at section 122.44, title 40 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations 1, require that permits include conditions meeting applicable 
technology-based requirements at a minimum, and any more stringent effluent 
limitations necessary to meet applicable water quality standards. The discharge 
authorized by this Order must meet minimum federal technology-based requirements 
based on Secondary Treatment Standards at Part 133 and/or Best Professional 
Judgment (BPJ) in accordance with Part 125, section 125.3. A detailed discussion of 
the technology-based effluent limitations development is included in the Fact Sheet 
(Attachment F). 
G. Water Quality-Based Effluent Limitations. Section 301 (b) of the CWA and section 
122.44(d) require that permits include limitations more stringent than applicable federal 
technology-based requirements where necessary to achieve applicable water quality 
All further statutory references are to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations unless otherwise 
indicated. 
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority 
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Limitations and Discharge Requirements Order No. RS-2015-0013 
NPDES No. CA8000316 
Page 7 of36 
standards. This Order contains requirements, expressed as a technology equivalence 
requirement, more stringent than secondary treatment requirements that are necessary 
to meet applicable water quality standards. 
The rationale for these requirements, which consist of tertiary treatment or equivalent 
requirements or other provisions, is discussed in the Fact Sheet. 
Section 122.44(d)(1)(i) mandates that permits include effluent limitations for all 
pollutants that are or may be discharged at levels that have the reasonable potential to 
cause or contribute to an exceedance of a water quality standard, including numeric and 
narrative objectives within a standard. Where reasonable potential has been 
established for a pollutant, but there is no numeric criterion or objective for the pollutant, 
water quality-based effluent limitations (WQBELs) must be established using: (1) 
USEPA criteria guidance under CWA section 304(a), supplemented where necessary 
by other relevant information; (2) an indicator parameter for the pollutant of concern; or 
(3) a calculated numeric water quality criterion, such as a proposed state criterion or 
policy interpreting the state's narrative criterion, supplemented with other relevant 
information, as provided in section 122.44(d)(1)(vi). 
H. Water Quality Control Plans. The Regional Water Board adopted a revised Water 
Quality Control Plan for the Santa Ana Region (hereinafter Basin Plan) that became 
effective on January 24, 1995. The Basin Plan designates beneficial uses, establishes 
water quality 
objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to achieve 
those objectives for all waters in the Santa Ana Region addressed through the plan. In 
2004, the Basin Plan was amended significantly to incorporate revised boundaries for 
groundwater subbasins, now termed "management zones", new nitrate-nitrogen and 
TDS objectives for the new management zones, and new nitrogen and TDS 
management strategies applicable to both surface and ground waters. 
This Basin Plan Amendment was adopted by the Regional Water Board on January 22, 
2004. The State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) and Office of 
Administrative Law (OAL) approved the Amendment on September 30, 2004 and 
December 23, 2004, respectively. EPA approved the surface water standards 
components of the NffDS Amendment on June 20, 2007. 
In addition, the Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State 
Water Board) Resolution No. 88-63, which established State policy that all waters, with 
certain exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially 
suitable for municipal or 
domestic supply. 
Based on the criteria specified in the State Water Board Resolution, the Basin Plan 
specifies that Reach 5 of the Santa Ana River, beginning at the intersection of Orange 
Avenue in the City of Redlands, and downstream reaches are excepted from the 
municipal and domestic supply beneficial use. As discussed in detail in the Fact Sheet 
(Attachment F), beneficial uses applicable to the Prado Basin Management Zone and 
Reach 3 of the Santa Ana River are as follows: 
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Authority 
Western Riverside County Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Limitations and Discharge Requirements Order No. RS-2015-0013 
NPDES No. CA8000316 
Page 8 of 36 
Table 5. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses 
Discharge