Bernardino Valley). The SNRC is a water supply project that supplements
existing water supplies by providing a reliable, high -quality source of water to
recharge the Bunker Hill -B GMZ. The SNRC consists of two major components:
Wastewater Recycling Facility (WWRF) and the Weaver Basins. Non -potable use
of treated water from the WWRF is an additional minor component. The SNRC
includes both treatment processes and pumping stat ions. Produces disinfected
and tertiary treated recycled water for mostly indirect potable reuse and for non -
potable reuse, at a lower volumetric scale.
A. Wastewater Treatment
1.Wastewater Recycling Facility (WWRF)
The WWRF of the SNRC is designed to produce up to 8 MGD of disinfected
and tertiary treated recycled water, and, in the future, its treatment capacity
Order No. R8 -2023 -0009 Attachment F
East Valley Water District’s Sterling Natural Resource Center
3may be expanded to 10 MGD by adding additional treatment trains .
Wastewater generated in the EVWD’s service area , which includes a small
portion of the SBMWD’s service area, is primarily from residential and
commercial sources with negligible industrial contribution. The wastewater is
conveyed by gravity to the WWRF. The WWRF ’s raw wastewater treatment
processes include coarse screens , vortex -type grit removal units , and
cylindrical fine screens (preliminary treatment ), flow equalization, followed by
a memb rane bioreactor (MBR) system that includes activated sludge aeration
basins with nitrification and denitrification capabilities (secondary treatment)
and microfiltration membranes (tertiary treatment ), and Ultra -Violet (UV)
irradiation for disinfection of the tertiary treated effluent. Also, the WWRF
includes solids handling facilities , which include sludge thickening , anaerobic
co-digestion of waste activated sludge and food waste, biosolids dewatering,
and digester gas cogeneration . Biosolids generated will be hauled offsite for
disposal.
2.Conveyance Piping
Following wastewater tertiary treatment and disinfection , the Facility will pump
the recycled water to the Weaver Basins , for surface application , through a
30-inch conveyance pipeline , the Regional Recycled Water Pipeline (RRWP),
that is approximately 5 miles long and is owned by San Bernardino Valley .
The Facility is equipped with a treated wastewater pump ing station that
includes a storage tank divided into two separate compartments: one storing
the treated wastewater intended for recycling and the other storing plant
service water. The treated wastewater pumping station is equipped with six
(6) 2800 -gallons per minute pumps equipped with a variable frequency drive
to cover a full range of discharge flows, as needed, and send recycled water
to the spreading basins. In the future , through coordination with San
Bernardino Valley, turnouts from the conveyance pipeline may be installed to
convey recycled water to other spreading locations and/or non-potable
customers. In addition, the San Bernard ino Valley is working collaboratively
with SBMWD on the development of the extension of the RRWP that will
connect the SNRC and the San Bernardino Water Reclamation Plant
(SBW RP).
B.Discharge Locations
1.Weaver Basins
The Discharger will utilize the Weaver Basins , which are owned by San
Bernardino Valley, to spread and percolate , initially, up to 8 MGD of the
disinfected and tertiary treated recycled water to recharge the Bunker Hill -B
GMZ . The Weaver Basins include five (5) rectangular spreading basins with 9
feet of depth and the volume of each basin varies from 5.5 to 19 million
gallons. The effective recharge area is 15 acres, the estimated infiltration rate
is 7.6 feet per day, the overall recharge capacity is estimated at 37.1 MGD,
Order No. R8 -2023 -0009 Attachment F
East Valley Water District’s Sterling Natural Resource Center
4depth to groundwater is 113 feet below ground surface, and the vadose zone
travel time is estimated to be 15 days.
The diluent water source for the Facility will consist primarily of groundwater
underflow that will include Santa Ana River water and imported water that is
percolated into the subsurface at the Santa Ana River Spreading Grounds,
which are located upstream and about 2 miles east of the Weaver Basins.
2.Non-Potable Recycled Water Reuse
The Discharger produces recycled water for non -potable reuse at present and
future use sites such as the ornamental landscape pond s located by the
Administration Center building.
C.Monitoring wells
The Discharger will monitor the groundwater quality downgradient from the
groundwater recharge locations using 2 existing monitoring well sites and one
future monitoring well site (MW -C). Monitoring wells MW-A and MW -B will be
used to assess compliance with discharge of recycled water at the Weaver
Basins and will be muti -nested to be able to monitor water -bearing layers 1, 3,
and 5 of the Bunker Hill -B GMZ . Also, monitoring well MW -C is proposed to be
located 11,800 ft downgradient from the Weaver Basins and will be constructed
by 2025 . Monitoring well MW -C will be located 180 days of travel time upgradient
of the nearest EVWD’s production well . Monitoring well EVWD Plant No. 120 will
be used to assess water quality upgradient from the Weaver Basins (diluent
water quality) . The monitoring wells will allow groundwater elevations to be
measured and water quality samples to be collected from the aquifer initially
receiving recycled water as a source of drinking water supply. Section IV.H of the
MRP requires gr oundwater monitoring to assess any potential impacts to

===PLANNED CHANGES===

