Facility Description: The Discharger owns and operates the Water Recycling Plant and
its wastewater treatment processes include: preliminary treatment that consist of influent
flow metering, mechanical bar-screening, aerated grit chamber, and fine screening (rota­
strainers); influent flow equalization; odor control with inorganic media filter beds;
secondary treatment that consists of an activated sludge process with limited nutrient
removal (nitrification/denitrification) and one secondary effluent holding pond; tertiary
treatment system that uses rotating-disk cloth filters and disinfection with chlorine
(chlorine contact basin). The secondary effluent holding pond covers approximately 2.5
acres and is used to store, temporarily, secondary effluent under emergency conditions
when the Facility is not able to dispose of the secondary effluent through the ocean
outfall. Normally, the secondary effluent stored in the holding pond is gravity fed to the
wet-well of the ocean outfall pump station. The Facility is designed to treat up to 6.0 mgd
of wastewater to secondary treatment standards and up to 4.0 mgd of tertiary-2.2
recycled water. Also, the Discharger has constructed a recycled water distribution
system composed of a storage tank, pump station, and approximately 19 miles of
pipeline. Attachment 8 is a location and vicinity map for this facility. Attachment C is a
flow schematic of the treatment systems.
C. Legal Authorities: This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs)
pursuant to Article 4, Chapter 4, Division 7 of the California Water Code (commencing with
section 13260). Also, this Order serves as a master reclamation permit pursuant to
Section 13523.1 of Article 4, Chapter 7, Division 7 of the California Water Code.
D. Background and Rationale for Requirements: The requirements in this Order are
based on information submitted as part of the application and other available information.
Attachment F, which contains background information and rationale for requirements in
this Order, is hereby incorporated into this Order, and thus constitutes a part of the
Findings for this Order. Attachments A, B, C, E, 'G and H are also incorporated into this
Order.
Order No. RS-2015-0023
El Taro Water District
Water Recycling Plant Page 7 of 18
E. Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems:
The State Water Resources Control Board issued the Statewide General Waste
Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems, Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ
(General Order) on May 2, 2006, as amended by Order No. WQ 2008-0002-EXEC,
requiring public agencies that own sanitary sewer systems comprised of more than one
mile of pipes or sewer lines to enroll for coverage under the General Order. The General
Order requires agencies to develop sanitary sewer management plans and report all
sanitary sewer overflows. The Discharger is currently enrolled under the General Order.
F. Monitoring and Reporting: Water Code section 13267 authorizes the Regional Board
to require technical and monitoring reports. The Monitoring and Reporting Program
establishes monitoring and reporting requirements to implement federal and State
requirements. This Monitoring and Reporting Program is provided in Attachment E of this
Order.
G. CEQA Compliance: This Order updates requirements for an existing facility.
Furthermore, the Discharger prepared appropriate environmental documents and filed
Notices of Determination related to the treatment plant upgrades and the recycled water
distribution system. Regional Board staff reviewed the environmental documents
prepared for the Facility and recycled water distribution systems and determined that if
the requirements specified herein are complied with, there should not be any significant
water quality impacts from the permitted discharges. See the Fact Sheet, Attachment F,
for details.
H. Notification of Interested Parties: The Regional Water Board has notified the
Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to prescribe Waste
Discharge Requirements and a Master Reclamation Permit for this project and has
provided them with an opportunity to submit their written comments and
recommendations. Details of the notification are provided in the Fact Sheet (Attachment
F) of this Order.
I. Consideration of Public Comment: The Regional Water Board, in a public meeting,
heard and considered all comments pertaining to the discharge. Details of the public
meeting are provided in the Fact Sheet (Attachment F) of this Order.
Ill. PROHIBITIONS
A. The use of recycled water shall be limited to treated effluent that meets the conditions
and requirements specified in Section IV.A.
B. The unauthorized discharge of wastewater and/or of recycled water at a location or in a
manner different from those described in this Order is prohibited.
C. The bypass or overflow of untreated wastewater or wastes to surface waters or surface
water drainage courses is prohibited.
Order No. R8-2015-0023
El T oro Water District
Water Recycling Plant Page 8 of 18
D. The discharge of any substances in concentrations toxic to animal or plant life in the
affected

===PLANNED CHANGES===

