FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Facility Background
The Idyllwild Water District operates the Facility, which is permitted to discharge up
to 250,000 gallons per day of secondary treated effluent to a series of offsite
percolations ponds and a spray irrigation system to the surrounding land under the
current permit (Order No. 98-78). The wastewater treatment consists of an activated
sludge unit with aerobic digestion and secondary clarification. Unit processes
include a grinder, extended aeration of activated sludge, clarification chamber, and
an aerobic sludge digester. Raw wastewater, after passing through the headworks,
can also be routed to an external aeration tank that can serve either as back-up
treatment unit during a planned or emergency shut down or as an equalization basin
during peak flows. Approximately 65,000-70,000 gallons per day of sewage is
treated during the winter months. This flow increases to approximately 100,000
gallons per day during the summer months. Undisinfected secondary
effluent from
the Facility is discharged at Discharge Point 001 which consists of seven offsite
percolation ponds and a spray irrigation system on National Forest land located
approximately a mile away from the Facility. The discharger is in the process of
adding tertiary treatment processes and constructing a pressurized pipeline
distribution system to distribute up to 57,000 gallons per day of tertiary treated
effluent for landscape irrigation. Tertiary treatment processes that are being added
to the treatment plant consist of coagulation, sand filtration and disinfection with
ultraviolet (UV) light. Attachment 8 provides a
vicinity map of the Facility.
Attachment C provides flow schematics of the current treatment system at the facility
as well as the tertiary treatment processes that are proposed to be added to the
current system.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Facility is being upgraded from secondary treatment to tertiary treatment with UV
disinfection for water that would be used for landscape irrigation and/or other recycled
water uses.
Ill.