FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. The wastewater treatment system consists of screens, a grit chamber, a flow -
equalization basin, a four-train biological treatment process (basins with
anaerobic, anoxic and aerobic sections fol lowed by a membrane bioreactor and
internal flow recycle), follo wed by four -train reverse osmosis process, and
disinfection with ultraviolet light (UV). Disinfected effluent is either pumped to
recycled water storage tanks and thence to the recycled water distribution
system, or it drains to a cascade aerator and final discharge to Cooper’s Creek .
The Facility produces tertiary treated water that complies with requirements
established in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations for non -potable water
reuse. During the term of the previous permit, t he Discharger installed a reverse
CITY OF BEAUMONT ORDER NO. R8-2022-0042
BEAUMONT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. C A0105376
ATTACHMENT F – Fact Sheet F-5osmosis treatment system and expanded the treatment capacity of the plant from
4 MGD to 6 MGD.
The Facility utilizes centrifuge s to dewater biosolids.
Stormwater runoff from the Facility is discharged to Cooper's Creek through four
separate outfalls.
Attachment B shows the location of the Facility and discharge points.
Attachment C is a flow schematic of the treatment system.
Table F -2. Facility Service Area
Cities/Agency Served Population Served
City of Beaumont 48,400
Unincorporated Cherry Valley 2,000
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Although the Discharger has built the recycled water desalinization facility to comply
with TDS and TIN effluent limitations in the sorthest time possible, the Discharger has
experienced difficulties in the start up of the membrane bioreactor (MBR) that fe eds
the reverse osomosis (RO) system and has not been able to achieve the TDS and
TIN removal efficiency needed to comply with the TDS and TIN effluent limitations of
Order No. R8 -2015 -0026. The Discharger is in the process of solving the start up
operatio nal issues caused by the premature failure of the microfiltration membranes of
the MBR and is replacing the original membranes with membranes from a different
and stablished manufacturer. Also, once the microfiltration membranes are replaced
the violations of effluent limitations for turbidity and total coliform will be addressed.
III.