Facility Description
The AWPF is located at 18700 Ward Street, Fountain Valley in Orange County . It
includes treatment processes and pumping stations . The AWPF treatment design
capacity is currently 100 mgd for FAT recycled water production . The production of FAT
recycled  water started in January 2008 . The Facility is undergoing expansion for a
treatment design capacity of 130 mgd by ea rly 2023 . The facility expansion will include
accepting a new influent source, secondary treated effluent from OC San’s Treatment
Plant No. 2 (TP-2).
The advanced  treatment p rocesses are as follows:
a.Fine Screening: Secondary treated wastewater from OC San’s RP-1 is strained,
or passed through rotating band fine -mesh screens, and chlorinated (as needed)
prior to microfiltration . Screenings are dewatered and returned to OC San for
disposal.
b.Microfiltration: Screened secondary effluent flow s via gravity to 26 in -basin
microfiltration (MF) cells containing submerged racks of hollow fiber membranes
with a maximum pore size of 0.2 micron . Sodium hypochlorite is added as
needed  to the MF feed to form a low level (3 -5 mg/L) of chloramine to
reduce/prevent foul ing of the MF membranes . The waste backwash is returned to
OC San for treatment .
.
c.Reverse Osmosis . The RO process will be bypassed when AWPF effluent is
discharged to the Santa Ana River.
d.Advanced Oxidation/UV Disinfection: The advanced oxidation/disinf ection
process (AOP) consists of two steps: hydrogen peroxide addition and ultraviolet
(UV) light treatment . UV irradiation is used for disinfection and reduction of light -
sensitive contaminants . Hydrogen peroxide exposed to UV irradiation produces
hydroxy l radicals that result in advanced oxidation to destroy UV -resistant
contaminants . For direct discharge to the SAR, only UV treatment will be used .
The nominal reliable capacity of the UV system is 100 mgd.
e.Decarbonation and Lime Stabilization Process: This treatment process will be
bypassed when AWPF effluent is discharged to the S AR.
f.Dechlorination and pH adjustment: After UV disinfection and prior to discharge to
the S AR, the effluent stream may still contain some chloramines. Sodium
bisulfate will be added for dechlorination,  if needed.
Orange County Water District  
Groundwater Replenishment System
Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R8-2022-0002 NPDES 
No. CA8000408
Page F-6
Attachment F –Fact Sheet
Approximately , up to  33 mgd of membrane backwash,  brine and start -up waste streams 
are returned to O C San’s RP-1 and will not be discharged to the S AR, even under 
emergency conditi ons or during di scharge system testing periods.
B.Wastewater Description
This Order regulates discharges from the  AWPF into Reach 1 of the S AR under
emergency conditions to provide flow relief when peak wastewater flows at OC San
approach the capacity of the 120” diameter 5 -mile long ocean outfall and, thereby,
threaten the integrity of the outfall and the wastewater treatment facilities, or whe n the
OC San ocean outfall is being repaired.
High wastewater flows approaching the maximum capacity of the OC San’s outfall may
occur , typically caused by peak wet weather storm events . It is anticipated that storm
events creating peak wastewater flows m ay occur infrequently and may last
approximately 12 hours each, and may occur about once every three years , based on
flow projections for the year 2020 . However, no such events have occurred during the
past thirteen  years . During such events, the S AR will likely convey storm water to the
ocean and provide dilution of the AWPF discharge . The amount of flow in the SAR is
likely to be highly variable depending on the location, duration and intensity of the storm
and the performance of upstream flood cont rol facilities.
Under emergency conditions, including peak wastewater flow event s at OC San that
approach the maximum capacity of OC San’s ocean outfall, secondary treated
wastewater flows from OC San’s RP-1 will be diverted to the AWPF for further treatm ent
and discharge to Reach 1 of the S AR. During these peak wastewater flow conditions,
the AWPF will provide up to 100 mgd of flow relief for OC San. The AWPF will treat
secondary effluent flows of up to 1 33 mgd from RP-1 using microfiltration (MF) and
ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection (bypassing reverse osmosis (RO)), followed by post -
treatment chemical addition as needed for pH adjustment . The microfiltered, disinfected
tertiary effluent will be dechlorinated (as needed) prior to being discharged to Rea ch 1
of the S AR via a separate pipeline that will terminate at the S AR channel at Garfield
Avenue in Fountain Valley (DP 001) . Reach 1 of the S AR is tributary to the Pacific
Ocean (about 4 miles from discharge point) . Both the S AR and the Pacific Ocean are
waters of the United States.
Since the AWPF began operating, t here has never been a direct discharge from the
Facility to the SAR.
C.Discharge P oints and Receiving Waters
1.Discharge Point
Up to 100 mgd of t ertiary treated wastewater will be  discharge d to the Santa Ana
River via DP 001 . The DP 001  is located about four miles upstream of the mouth of
the SAR at the Pacific Ocean.
Orange County Water District  
Groundwater Replenishment System
Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R8-2022-0002 NPDES 
No. CA8000408
Page F-7
Attachment F –Fact Sheet
2.Receiving Water
Treated w astewater from the AWPF  will be  discharged to Reach 1  of the SAR and then
to the Pacific Ocean, which are waters of the United States . The Pacific Ocean is
approximately  four miles away from the discharge point .
Table 2.  Summary of Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Discharge 
PointLatitude LongitudeDescription and Receiving 
WatersFlow & 
Frequency 
00133°41’13”
N117°56’22”
WReach 1 of the Santa Ana River . Up to 100 mgd 
D.Summary  of Effluent  Data
On May 11, 2020 a special scheduled AWPF’s  restart event  was conducted . The
Facility was temporarily operated in SAR  Discharge treatment mode and  the discharg e
was directed to the OC  San’s Pacific Ocean outfall. Effluent  monitoring  data was
collected during this event to determine the anticipated quality of the wastewater
discharged from  the AWP F during emergency conditions . A summary of that data is
listed in the following table .
Table 3.  Summary of May 11, 2020 restart event data
Parameter Units Result
pH SU 7.2
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L <2
Field Dissolved Oxygen mg/L 4.65
Field Temperature C 25.0
Temperature (Laboratory) C 21.4
Ammonia Nitrogen mg/L 1.4
Nitrate mg/L 50
Nitrate + Nitrite Nitrogen mg/L 11.65
Nitrate Nitrogen mg/L 11.3
Nitrite mg/L 1.14
Nitrite Nitrogen mg/L 0.347
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 932
Total Hardness (as CaCO3) mg/L 335
Selenium µg/L 1.3
Copper µg/L 5.5
Nickel µg/L 3.4
Zinc µg/L 9.1
Bromodichloromethane µg/L 4.8
Chloride mg/L 219
Chloroform µg/L 9.1
n-Nitrosodimethylamine ng/L 5.1
Orange County Water District  
Groundwater Replenishment System
Advanced Water Purification Facility Order No. R8-2022-0002 NPDES 
No. CA8000408
Page F-8
Attachment F –Fact Sheet
Table 3.  Summary of May 11, 2020 restart event data
Parameter Units Result
Phosphate Phosphorus (orthophosphate) mg/L 0.51
Since no emergency discharge s have taken place from the AWPF , effluent monitoring 
data from the May 11, 2020 discharge simulation event , to the OC San’s ocean outfall 
system,  was used in the reasonable potential analysis . (see Section IV.C.3., below)
E.Compliance Summary —Not Applicable
F.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes – Not Applicable
III.