Mexico International border, is operated by Veolia Water North America.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the SBIWTP consist of three
mechanical bar screens, one grit removal unit, six primary sedimentation tanks with
ferric chloride injection capabilities, polymer injections, seven aeration basins, and 10
secondary clarifiers. During the winter when the d ischarge (or outfall) plume is most
likely to surface, the Discharger also chlorinates the effluent with sodium hypochlorite.
Treated wastewater first flow s through the SBLO and then through the SBOO, where it
is discharged to the Pacific Ocean. Attachment C provides a flow schematic of the
SBIWTP .
U.S. Internatio nal Boundary and Water Commission Order No. R9 -2021 -0001
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6The advanced primary treatment facility has a peak hydraulic capacity of 100 MGD, a
peak design flow rate of 75 MGD, and an average design flow rate of 25 MGD. The
secondary treatment design capacity is 25 MGD wi th a peaking factor of approximately
2. If flow from the primary treatment units to the secondary treatment units exceeds
49.85 MGD, primary effluent flows exceeding 49.85 MGD bypass the polymer addition
and activated sludge processes and discharge directl y to the SBOO. Bypasses are
prohibited unless they meet the requirements contained in Attachment D of this Order,
section 1.7. The reported annual average daily discharge flow between 2016 and 2019
ranges between 22.36 MGD and 24.57 MGD.
Solids from second ary sedimentation tanks are conveyed to three dissolved air flotation
units for thickening. Thickened sludge from the dissolved air flotation units and solids
collected from the primary sedimentation tanks are sent to an on -site solids handling
facility fo r dewatering using belt -filter presses and lime stabilization. Processed solids
are collected onsite and trucked to Mexico for disposal.
The SBIWTP receives domestic and industrial wastewater from the following sources:
·City of Tijuana’s municipal collecti on system;
·Five diversion structures (also referred as canyon collectors), Stewart’s Drain, Canyon
del Sol, Silva ’s Drain, Smuggler ’s Gulch, and Go at Canyon; and
·Transboundary flows from other location s collected by vacuum trucks.
City of Tijuana Sewage C ollection System
Sewage from the City of Tijuana is conveyed in a 72 -inch diameter line to Tijuana’s
Pumping Plant (Pump Station 1/1A). Pump Station 1/1A includes a 42 -inch force main
and a conveyance canal with an operational capacity of 36 MGD, which bot h connect to
Mexican WWTPs.
Pump Station 1/1A typically conveys approximately 25 MGD of this sewage by gravity to
Junction Box 1 in the U.S. However, Junction Box 1 contains valves to control the
amount of sewage flowing from Tijuana into the Facility. The Discharger has the capacity
to increase flows from the City of Tijuana in the event of an interruption of service in
Tijuana’s sewage treatm ent system. The sewage flows by gravity from Junction Box 1 to
Junction Box 2.
Canyon Collector Systems
The canyon collector system s are designed to capture and convey dry weather
transboundary flows to the SBIWTP for treatment and disposal through the SBO O.
These dry weather transboundary flow s begin in Mexico and drain north through
canyons and ravines across the U.S . – Mexico international border to the Tijuana River
Valley in California. The five canyon collector systems located in Smugglers Gulch, Goat
Canyon, Canyon del Sol, Stewart’s Drain and Silva Drain are considered part of the
Facility that is owned and oper ated by USIBWC and regulated by this Order. Each
canyon collector system consists of multiple components, including but not limited to a
concrete apron, a weir, a diversion box which functions to trap sediment and floatable
debris , and a gravity conveyance to the SBIWTP or pump stations.
The maximum design capacity for each of the five canyon collector systems is as
follows:
U.S. Internatio nal Boundary and Water Commission Order No. R9 -2021 -0001
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7Table F -2. Canyon Collector Systems Design Capacities
Canyon Collector
SystemAverage Flow
(MGD)Peak Flow (MGD)
Goat Canyon 2.33 7.00
Smuggler’s Gulch 4.67 14.00
Canyon del Sol 0.67 2.00
Silva’s Drain 0.33 1.00
Stewart’s Drain 1.67 5.00
The Goat Canyon Canyon Collector System conveys diverted flows by gravity to the
Goat Canyon Pump Station. From the Go at Canyon Pump Station, the diverted flows
are pumped to the Hollister Street Pump Station. The Smugglers Gulch Canyon
Collector System conveys diverted flows by gravity to the Hollister Street Pump Station.
From the Hollister Street Pump Station, the dive rted flows are pumped to the SBIWTP
headworks . The remaining three canyon collector systems located at Silva Dr ain,
Canyon del Sol, and Stewarts Drain ultimately convey diverted flows by gravity to
Junction Box 2.
Flows overflowing or bypassing the canyon collector system s continue north in the
natural drainages , potentially polluting the Tijuana River Valley and Estuary, the Tijuana
River, and the Pacific Ocean at San Diego beaches near the mouth of the Tijuana River.
These flows during dry weather are a violation of the Order.
Combined flows gathered at Junctio n Box 2 are conveyed by gravity to the SBIWTP ’s
headworks.
Yogurt Canyon
Yogurt Canyon is located between Goat Canyon and the Pacific Ocean, near “El Yogurt
Place” at approximately the following coo rdinates: 32.535293, -117.120101. This canyon
is not equipped with a canyon collector connection to the SBIWTP. While t his location is
not consider ed to be part of the Facili ty, flows at Yogurt Canyon are sometimes collected
by the Discharger with a vacuum truck and transported to the SBIWTP .
CILA Tijuana River Main Channel Diversion Structure
Dry weather flows equal to or less than 1,000 liters per second (35.3 cubic feet per
second, 22.8 MGD ) in the Tijuana River that would otherwise flow into the U.S. are
currently diverted from the riverbed at the River Diversion Structure (also referred to as
Pump Station CILA) , located on the Mexican side of the inter national border , through a
line parallel to the 72 -inch diameter sewage line to Tijuana’s Pumping Plant (Pump
Station 1/1A). From Tijuana’s Pumping Plant (Pump Station 1/1A), dry weather flows
from the Tijuana River are sent south to a disch arge point on t he Pacific Ocean
shoreline at Punta Bandera, located approximately 5.6 miles south of the international
border. During wet weather conditions , when any Tijuana River flows are over 1,000
liters per second , or at times when the River Diversion Structure and Pump Station CILA
is not working properly, Tijuana River water flows across the international border i nto the
U.S. These flows will then infiltrate into the riverbed or continue through the Tijuana
River and into the Tijuana River Estuary and into the Pacific Ocean. Currently there is no
diversion structure in the Tijuana River on the U.S. side of the inte rnational border.
U.S. Internatio nal Boundary and Water Commission Order No. R9 -2021 -0001
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-82.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes to the Facility during the
term of this Order.
3. Applicable Plans, Policies, and Regulations
The requirements contained in thi s Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in th is section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
U.S. Internatio nal Boundary and Water Commission Order No. R9 -2021 -0001
South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA0108928
Attachmen t F – Fact Sheet F-16This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California
Water Code (Water Code) (commencing with section 13260). This O rder is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean Wate r Act (CWA) and implementing
regulations adopted by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and
chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13370). It ser ves as
an NPDES permit authorizing the Discharger to discharge into w aters of the U.S. at the
discharge location described in Table 1 subject to the WDRs in this Order.
3.2. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, the action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from
the provisions of chapte r 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of division 13 of
the Public Resources Code.
3.3. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
3.3.1. Water Quality Control Plan
The San Diego Water Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan for the San Diego
Basin (Basin Plan) on September 8, 1994 that designates beneficial uses, establishes
water quality objectives, and contains implementation programs and policies to
achieve thos e objectives for the Pacific Ocean and other