Facility Description
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, which is located at 2411 Dairy Mart Road, San Diego, adjacent to the United States and Mexico Border. The
Discharger provides municipal wastewater treatment services to a population of approximately 125,000.
The Facility treats wastewater collected from the southern portion of the City of
San Diego, including San Ysidro, Otay Mesa, and the Tijuana River Valley (all of
City of San Diego Order No. R9-2021-0011
South Bay Water Reclamation Plant NPDES No. CA0109045

Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
 which flow through the Grove Avenue Pump Station (GAPS )). The Facility also
receives raw wastewater from a portion of the Imperial Beach sewage collection
system (through the Otay River Pump Station) , the City of Chula Vista, and
unincorporated portions of South County and East County. Wastewater from the GAPS and the Otay River Pump Station is primarily domestic sewage from residential and commercial activities.
Wastewater treatment uni t operations and processes at the Facility consist of
influent screening using mechanical bar screens, aerated grit chambers, primary sedimentation tanks, 1.5 million gallons of primary flow equalization basins with air-
activated sludge process and an anox ic selector zone, secondary clarifiers, mono-
media (anthracite) filters, and ultraviolet disinfection.
The Facility produces tertiary -treated recycled water depending on anticipated
recycled water demands . The recycled water is transferred through a recycled
water distribution system to qualified recycled water customers under separate
WDRs, Order No. 2000 -203. During times with no recycled water demand, up to 15
MGD of secondary effluent is discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the South
Bay Ocean Outfall (SBOO). During times with high recycled water demand, the
entire effluent flow may be directed to tertiary treatment and reuse. At times when
recycled water demand is low, excess tertiary -treated recycled water that has been
treated via ultraviolet disinfection may also be discharged.
Solids removed through the screening and grit removal processes are hauled offsite and disposed of in a landfill. Waste solids removed through the sedimentation/clarification process are returned to the sewer system for transport
to the City of San Diego Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant, where they are
again removed and directed to anaerobic digesters at the Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant for stabilization. After digestion, the solids are dewatered and thickened for reuse as a soil amendment or for disposal.
The s econdary treatment design capacity of the Facility is 18.0 MGD as a 30- day
average daily flow. The current maximum permitted flow is 15.0 MGD. From May 2013 to May 2019, the av erage influent flow to the Facility was 7.36 MGD and the
average effluent flow from the Facility to the SBOO was 3.25 MGD.
The City of San Diego maintains a United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) approved pretreatment program for the Facility administered by the
Industrial Wastewater Control Program of the Public Utilities Department. The Discharger receives wastewater from six non -categorical Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs) and five Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs) .
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger does not anticipate any changes to the Facilities during the term of this Order.
3.