Facility Information

II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Diego Region (San Diego Water Board), finds:
A. Background. Order No. R9 -2016- 0154 (Order) updates the SMWWTP’s Master
Reclamation Permit
1 to add requirements of the State Recycled Water Policy ,2 and to
add requirements for recycled water fill station should Ramona Municipal Water District
(RMWD) choose to operate fill stations in the future. The Order also revise s discha rge
specifications to address compliance issues caused by an increase in constituent
concentrations in RMWD’s potable water supply.
B. Legal Authorities . This Order is issued pursuant to section 13263 and 13523.1 of
the Water Code. This Order serves as a Master Recycling Permit , which also includes
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) issued pursuant to a rticle 4, chapter 4,
division 7 of the Water Code.
C. Rationale for Requirements . The San Diego Water Board developed the
requirements in this Order based on information in self-monitoring reports , water
quality control plans and policies, observations made during compliance inspections
and site visits, and other available information. An Information Sheet (Attachment C)
was prepared for this Order , which contains background information and rationale for
Order requirements. The Information Sheet is hereby incorporated into and
constitutes findings for this Order.

1 Order No. R9- 2000- 0117, Master Reclamation Permit for the Ramona Municipal Water District, Santa Maria
Wastewater Treatment Plant, San Diego County
2 State Water Board’s Recycled Water Policy (2009 as modified in 2013):
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/water_recycling_policy/draft_amendment_to_policy.sht
ml Discharger Ramona Municipal Water District
Name of Facility Santa Maria Wastewater Treatment Plant
Facility Address 260 Sawday St
Ramona, San Diego, CA 9206 5
San Diego County
Facility Contact, Title and
Phone Mr. Jim Anderson , Wastewater Operations Superintendent
(760) 788-2239
Mailing Address 105 West Earlham St, Ramona, CA 9206 5-1599
Type of Facility Wastewater Treatment Plant
Facility Design Flow 1.0 million gallons per day (mgd) of secondary treated effluent and 0.35
mgd of disinfected tertiary recycled water (Annual Average Daily Flow)
ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


4 D. Antidegradation Policy . The State Water Resources Control Board (State Water
Board) established California’s Antidegradation Policy in Resolution No. 68- 16, the
Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality of Waters in California.
Resolution No. 68- 16 requires that existing quality of waters be maintained unless
degradation is justif ied based on specific findings. The San Diego Water Board’s
Basin Plan implements and incorporates by reference both the State and federal
antidegradation policies. As discussed in Section V of the Information Sheet, the
discharge regulated by this Order is consistent with the Antidegradation Policy.
E. Standard and Special Provisions . Standard Provisions apply to all WDRs and
Master Recycling Permits . The standard provisions contain language the San Diego
Water Board finds necessary to ensure the Order is enforced, the facility is designed
and operated for the protection of human health, records are maintained, and changes are reported. The Discharger must comply with all standard provisions .
F. Notification of Interested P ersons . The San Diego Water Board has notified the
Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to adopt a Master
Recycling Permit that also prescribes Waste Discharge Requirements in this Order .
The San Diego Water Board also provided stakeholders with an opportunity to submit
their written comments and recommendations. Details of the notification are provided
in Section IX of the Information Sheet .
G. Consideration of Public Comment . The San Diego Water Board, in a public
meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the discharge. Details of the scheduling for the Public Hearing are provided in Section IX of the Information
Sheet.
H. California Environmental Quality Act . The San Diego Water Board is the lead
agency under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and has principal
responsibility for approving the proposed project. The proposed project is the
reissuance of a Master Recycling Permit which includes WDRs. T he Discharger is not
adding or changing any treatment process to the Facility . As such this project is
categorically exempt from the requirements of CEQA as provided by section 15301,
and in compliance with title 14, of California Code of Regulations (Cal. Code of Regs.) ,
section 15300.2
I. Rescission of Outdated Master Reclamation Perm it. The Santa Maria Wastewater
Treatment Plant (SMWWTP) has been regulated under Order No. R9 -2000- 0177,
Master Reclamation Permit for the Ramona Municipal Water District , Santa Maria
Wastewater Treatment Plant, San Diego County . Order No. R9 -2016- 0154
supersedes Order No . R9-2000- 0177 except for enforcement purposes .
THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that this Order supersedes Order No. R9-2000-
0177 upon the effective date of this Order except for enforcement purposes. In order to meet
the provisions contained in division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13000) and applicable regulations, it is further ordered that the Discharger comply with the requirements in this Order. If any part of this Order is subj ect to a temporary stay of enforcement, unless
otherwise specified in the order granting stay, the Discharger shall comply with the analogous
ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


5 portions of the previous Order. This action does not prevent the San Diego Water Board from
taking enforcement ac tions for past violations of the previous Order.
III. DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
A. Discharge of waste, other than incidental runoff, to lands which have not been specifically described in this Order or in the Report of Waste Discharge, and for which
valid w aste discharge requirements are not in force are prohibited.
B. Discharges of treated or untreated solid or liquid waste to waters of the United States are prohibited unless as authorized by a N ational Discharge P ollution Discharge
Elimination System permit issued by the San Diego Water Board.
C. Discharges of treated or untreated solid or liquid waste directly or indirectly to any surface waters of the S tate (including ephemeral streams and vernal pools) are
prohibited.
D. The treatment, storage, or disposal of w aste in a manner that creates pollution,
contamination , or nuisance, as defined by Water Code section 13050, is prohibited.
IV. DISCHARGE SPECIFICAT IONS
A. The average annual flow of undisinfected secondary effluent to the Rangeland Road spray disposal field shall not exceed 1.0 mgd. The average annual flow of disinfected
tertiary effluent from the SMWWTP shall not exceed 0.35 mgd.
B. Discharges of undisinfected secondary treated and tertiary treated wastewater from
the SMWWTP shall not contain constituents in excess of the discharge specifications
in Table 5:
Table 5. Discharge Specifications
Constituent Units Daily Maximum1 Monthly
Average2 Annual Average3
Biological Oxygen Demand
(BOD 5 @ 20ºC) mg/L 30 45

Total Suspended Solids
(TSS) mg/L 30 45

pH pH units Within the limits of 6.5 -9.0 at all times
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L - - 1,000
Chloride (Cl) mg/L - - 250
Sulfate (SO 4) mg/L - - 300
Percent Sodium (% Na) % - - 60%

Iron (Fe) mg/L - - 0.30
Manganese (Mn) mg/L - - 0.05
Methylene Blue - Activated
Substances (MBAS) mg/L - -
0.5
Boron (B) mg/L - - 0.5
Fluoride (F) mg/L - - 1.0
Aluminum4 mg/L 1.0 -
ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


6 Constituent Units Daily Maximum1 Monthly
Average2 Annual Average3
Arsenic4 mg/L 0.05 -
Antimony4 mg/L 0.006 -
Barium4 mg/L 1.0 -
Beryllium mg/L 0.004 -
Cadmium4 mg/L 0.005 -
Cyanide4 mg/L 0.2 -
Mercury4 mg/L 0.002 -
Nickel4 mg/L 0.1 -
Perchlorate4 mg/L 0.006 -
Selenium4 mg/L 0.05 -
Thallium4 mg/L 0.002 -
1The daily maximum discharge specification shall apply to the results of a single composite or gr ab sample
representing non-overlapping 24 hour periods.
2The monthly average discharge specification shall apply to the arithmetic mean of the results of all samples
collected during each calendar month.
3The 12- month average discharge specification shall apply to the arithmeti c mean of the results of all samples
collected during a calendar year period.
4These discharge specifications only apply when recycled water is discharged to landscape irrigation sites or
reuse sites subject to Water Recycling Criteria specified in title 22, Cal. Code of Regs.

C. Recycled water produced from the SMWWTP tertiary facility shall comply with the
following additional requirements .
1. The chlorine disinfection process must provide a chlorine contact time (or CT)3
value of not less than 450 milligram -minutes per liter at all times with a modal
contact time of at least 90 minutes, based on peak dry weather design flow.
2. The median density of total coliform bacteria measured in the disinfected recycled
water effluent from the Facility shall not exceed a Most Probable Number (MPN) of
2.2 organisms per 100 milliliters, utilizing the bacteriological results of the last
seven days for which analyses have been completed; and the number of total coliform bacteria shall not exceed a MPN of 23 organisms per 100 milliliters in more than one sample in any 30- day period. No sample shall exceed an MPN of
240 total coliform bacteria per 100 milliliters.
3. Turbidity measurement of the recycled water effluent from the SMWWTP shall not
exceed a daily average value of 2 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU), shall not exceed 5 NTU more than 5 percent of the time during a 24- hour period, and shall
not exceed 10 NTU at any time.
4. Alternative disinfection process es may be used, that, when combined with the
filtration process, have been demonstrated to reduce the concentration of plaque-

3 Defined as the product of total chlorine residual and modal contact time measured at the same point .
ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


7 forming units of F -specific bacteriophage MS2, or polio virus, per unit volume of
water in the wastewater to one hundred thousandths (1/100,000) of the initial
concentration in the filter influent throughout the range of qualities of wastewater that will occur during the recycling process. A virus that is at least as resistant to disinfection as polio virus may be used for purposes of the demonstration.

V. WATER RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS
A. The Discharger must develop and submit the following information to the San Diego
Water Board, State Water Board Division of Drinking Water (DDW) and County of San Diego Department of Environmental Health (County DEH) upon request .

1. Rules and Regulations for Recycled Water Users governing the design and
construction of recycled water use facilities and the use of recycled water. Rules and regulations for purveyance of recycled water shall, at a minimum, include the
requirements which are contained in Attachment B to this Order.

2. A program to conduct compliance inspections of recycled water reuse sites.
Inspections shall determine the status of compliance with the Discharger 's
approved rules and regulations for recycled water users.

3. A report containing the information listed below. The Discharger may submit a
report that covers more than one reuse site. The report shall include a detailed
description of each reuse site identifying all of the information below:

a. The number, location, and type of facilities within the use area proposing to
use domestic and recycled water. "Facility" means any type of building or
structure, or defined area of specific public use that utilizes or proposes to
utilize a dual plumbed system.

b. The specific boundaries of the proposed use site area including a map showing the location of each facility, drinking water fountain and
impoundment to be served.

c. The person or persons responsible for operation of the recycled water system
at each use area.

d. The speci fic use to be made of the recycled water at each use area.

e. The methods to be used by the Discharger to assure that the installation and
operation of the recycled system will not result in cross connections between the recycled water piping system and the potable water piping system. This shall include a description of pressure, dye, or other test methods to be used to test the system.

f. Plans and specification s. These s hall include the following and shall be
submitted to the DDW and County DEH:

i. Proposed piping system to be used.
ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


8
ii. Pipe locations of both the recycled and potable systems.

iii. Type and location of the outlets and plumbing fixtures that will be
accessible to the public.

iv. The methods and devices to be used to prevent backflow of recycled water int o the public water system.

v. Plan notes relating to recycled water specific installation and use requirements.

B. Prior to providing recycled water to a new use site, the Discharger shall do the
following:

1. Submit for review and approval a report certifying that the project conforms to all
criteria described in Water Recycling Requirements V.A.3 . The certification report
shall document that all criteria described in Water Recycling Requirements V.A.3
has been submitted to and approved by the appropriate regulatory agency.
Information submitted as a supplement to this report shall document compliance with any criteria, as described by Water Recycling Requirements V.A.3 , not met
through submittal of the initial report .

2. Ensure that any dual plumbed system within each facility and use area is inspected
for possible cross connections with the potable water system. The recycled water system shall also be tested for possible cross connections at least once every f our
years. The testing shall be conducted in accordance with the method described in
the report submitted pursuant to title 22, C al. Code Regs. , section 60314. The
inspections and the testing shall be performed by a cross connection control
specialist ce rtified by the California- Nevada section of the American Water Works
Association or an organization with equivalent certification requirements. The County DEH shall be notified at least 30 days prior to any cross connection test. A
written report documen ting the result of the inspection or testing for the prior year
shall be submitted to the County DEH within 30 days following completion of the
inspection or testing.

C. The Discharger shall ensure the following requirements are met for all reuse sites:

1. Enforce recycled water rules and regulations.

2. Conduct recycled water reuse site compliance inspections in accordance with the
program submitted in compliance with Section V.A.2 of this Order.

3. Notify the DDW and the County DEH of any incidence of recycled water backflow
into the potable water system as soon as possible, but in no case later than 24 hours after finding the incident.

4. Maintain a current list of all on- site recycled water supervisors.

ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


9 VI. PROVISIONS
A. The Discharger shall comply with all of the following Standard Provisions:
1. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order. Any noncompliance
with this Order constitutes a violation of the Water Code and is grounds for (a)
enforcement action; (b) termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification of
this Order; or (c) denial of a report of waste discharge in application for new or
revised waste discharge requirements .
2. The Discharger shall allow the San Diego Water Board, or an authorized
representative, upon the presentation of cre dentials and other documents as may
be required by law to do the following :
a. Enter upon the Discharger's premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or conducted or where records must be kept under the conditions of this Order,
b. Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of this Order,
c. Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and control equipment), practices or operations regulated or required under this Order, and
d. Sample or monitor, at reasonable times for the purposes of assuring
compliance with this Order or as otherwise authorized by the Water Code, any substances or parameters at any location.
B. The Discharger shall report any noncompliance that may endanger health or the
environment. Pursuant to section 5411.5 of the Health and Safety Code, any sewage
overflow or spill shall be immediately reported to the California Office of Emergency
Services (OES), and the County DEH. In addition, any such information shall be
provided orally to the San Diego Water Board within 24 hours from the time the Discharger becomes aware of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be
provided to the San Diego Water Board within 5 days of the time the Discharger
becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain a
description of the noncompliance and its cause; the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and if the nonco mpliance has not been corrected; the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance. The San Diego Water Board may waive the written report on a case- by-case basi s if the oral report has been
received within 24 hours. The following occurrence(s) must be reported to the San Diego Water Board within 24 hours:
1. Any bypass from any portion of the treatment facility.
2. Any discharge of treated or untreated wastewater res ulting from sewer line breaks,
obstruction, surcharge, or any other circumstances.
ORDER NO. R9 -2016- 0154 June 22, 2016


10 3. Any treatment plant upset which causes the discharge specifications of this Order
to be exceeded.
4. Failure of disinfection system.
5. Disinfected tertiary effluent total colifor m bacteria greater than 240 MPN/ 100mL.
C. The Discharger shall report all overflow events that occur at the plant. For purposes of this reporting requirement, an overflow event is defined as a discharge of treated or
untreated wastewater at a location onsit e or other lands owned by the Discharger not
authorized by waste discharge requirements which results from a pump station failure, line break, obstruction, surcharge, or any other operational dysfunction. This reporting requirement applies to all overflow events other than those events subject to
regulation under the State Board Order No. 2006- 0003- DWQ and San Diego Water
Board Order No. R9- 2007- 0005. Overflows of the kind identified under this provision
shall be reported to the San Diego Water Board with the monthly monitoring repor t in
which the overflow occurs.
D. If the Discharger or end user , without regard to intent or negligence, causes or permits
an unauthorized discharge of 50,000 gallons or more of recycled water that has been
treated to at least disinfected tertiary recycled water
4 or 1,000 gallons or more of
recycled water that is treated at a level less than disinfected tertiary recycled water in or on any waters of the State, or causes or permits such unauthorized discharge to be
discharged where it is, or probably will be, discharged in or on any waters of the State,
shall, as soon as (1) that person has knowledge of the discharge, (2) notification is
possible, and (3) notification can be provided without substantially impeding cleanup
or other emergency measures, immediately notify the San Diego Water Board in
accordance with reporting requirements in Provision VI. B.
E. The incidental discharge of recycled water to waters of the State is not a violation of
these requirements if the incidental disc harge does not unreasonably affect the
beneficial uses of the water, and does not result in the