As shown in the process schematic in Attachment C, the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant provides secondary treatment through parallel 4 -
MGD and 9 -MGD treatment trains. The 4 -MGD treatment train handles
wastewater flow from the Dana Point Interceptor. The 9 -MGD treatment train
handles wastewater flows conveyed via the Oso Creek and San Juan Creek
Interceptors. W astewater treatment processes for both treatment trains include
screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, and secondary treatment
with activated sludge aeration and secondary sedimentation.
Solids processing at the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant includes
thickening (secondary sludge), anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering.
Grit and screenings from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant are
hauled to a sanitary landfill, and dewatered biosolids from the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant are hauled to either a sanitary landfill or a
contractor -operated compost site.
Secondary -treated wastewater from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment
Plant is discharged directly to the SJCOO under this Order. From February 2019
to January 2020, the reported average influent daily flow to the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant was 6.49 MGD and the average effluent daily flow
from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant to the SJCOO was 6.49 MGD.
2.1.2. Santa Margarita Water District Chiquita Water Reclamation Plant (Chiquita
WRP)
The Chiquita WRP is located at 28793 Ortega Highway, San Juan Capistrano,
California and provides wastewater treatment to a population of approximately
107,000 residents9within the service area /boundaries of the SMWD and Trabuco
Canyon Water District.
The Chiquita WRP provides secondary -treatment with the following wastewater
treatment unit operations and processes: screening , grit removal , primary
clarification (9.0-MGD capacity) , and a combination of (1) high -rate trickling
filtration and recirculation (6.0 -MGD capacity) and (2) activated sludge aeration
and secondary clarification (6.0-MGD capacity). The 2020 Chiquita WRP
inspection report states that SMWD was in the process of installing another
8Discharger’s ROWD states, “Population estimate provided by SOCWA. Corresponds to a wastewater
flow contribution of 54 gallons per capita per day, based on the average J.B. Latham Wastewater
Treatment Plant influent flow of 6.51 MGD during January 2015 through June 2016.”
9Discharger’s ROWD states, “Estimated population based on a Chiquita [WRP] average influent flow of
5.87 MGD during January 2015 through June 2016, and an estimated 55 gallons per capita per day
wastewater flow contribution.”
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9 -2022-0005 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9 -2024 -0005
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107 417
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9secondary clarifier ( at the time, the design was done and out for bid). SMWD also
planned to add new aeration basins. The projected operational date of the new
basins was by the end of June 2021 and will increase the aeration basin from 6
MGD to 9 MGD. A portion of the secondary -treated wastewater receives tertiary
treatment through chemical addition/flash mixing, tertiary filtration, and
chlorination disinfection .
The San Diego Water Board’s Order No. 97 -52, Waste Discharge and Recycling
Requirements for the South Orange County Wastewater Authority, Orange
County , establishes recycled water requirements for the reuse of tertiary -treated
wastewater from the Chiquita WRP in the San Diego Region.
Waste activated sludge from the Chiquita WRP is thickened, digested, and
dewatered , using belt filter press . Approximately 40 percent of dewatered
biosolids from the Chiquita WRP are directed to the Prima Deshecha landfill,
while the remaining biosolids are trucked to contract composting operations.
Screenings removed from the wastewater in the preliminary treatm ent process
are sent to a Class 1 sanitary landfill in Simi Valley.
Under this Order, secondary -treated wastewater not recycled at the Chiquita
WRP is discharged to the Chiquita Land Outfall, which then discharges to the
SJCOO. From February 2019 to January 2020, the reported average influent
daily flow to the Chiquita WRP was 5.51 MGD and the average effluent daily flow
from the Chiquita WRP to the SJCOO was 1.90 MGD.
2.1.3. Santa Margarita Water District/Moulton Niguel Water District 3A Water
Reclamation Plant (3A WRP)
The 3A WRP is located at 26801 Camino Capistrano, Mission Viejo, California
and provides wastewater treatment to a population of approximately 33,000
residents10within the service area /boundaries of the MNWD and SMWD.
Secondary -treatment capacity at the 3A WRP is 6.0 MGD and includes the
following wastewater treatment unit operations and processe s: screening,
aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation , and secondary treatment with
activated sludge aeration and secondary sedimentation . A portion of the
secondary -treated wastewater receives tertiary treatment through chemical
addition, tertiary filtration, and disinfection (2.4 -MGD capacity).
Biosolids are treated through dissolved air floatation , anaerobic digestion , and
centrifuge dewatering . Dewatered biosolids are hauled to either the Prima
Deshecha Landfill in Orange County or the Otay Landfill in San Diego County.
Screenings and grit from the 3A WRP are transported by a private contractor to a
Class 1 sanitary landfill in Simi Valley.
Under this Order, secondary -treated wastewater not recycled at the 3A WRP is
discharged to the 3A Effluent Transmission Main, which connects to the Chiquita
10Discharger’s ROWD states, “Estimated population based on a 3A Water Reclamation Plant average
influent flow of 1.81 MGD during January 2015 through June 2016, and an estimated 55 gallons per
capita per day wastewater flow contribution.”
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9 -2022-0005 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9 -2024 -0005
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107 417
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-10Land Outfall, which then discharges to the SJCOO. From February 2019 to
January 2020, the reported average influent daily flow to the 3A WRP was 1.66
MGD and the average effluent daily flow from the 3A WRP to the SJCOO was
0.92 MGD.
2.1.4. San Clemente Water Reclamation Plant (San Clemente WRP)
The San Clemente WRP is located at 380 Avenida Pico, San Clemente,
California and provides wastewater treatment to a population of approximately
53,000 residents11within the service area of the City of San Clemente and
SMWD. The San Clemente WRP also receives urban runoff flows from several
diversion points within the City of San Clemente.
The San Clemente WRP has a secondary -treatment capacity of 6.98 MGD with
the following wastewater treatment unit operations and processes: screening, grit
removal, primary clarification, and secondary treatment with activated sludge
aeration and secondary clarification. A portion of the secondary -treated
wastewater receives tertiary treatment, which includes filtration and chlorination .
The tertiary -treatment capacity is 3.7 MGD.
The San Diego Water Board’s Order No. R9 -2003 -0123 establishes reclamation
requirements for the reuse of tertiary -treated wastewater from the San Clemente
WRP in the San Diego Region.
Grit and screenings are hauled to a sanitary landfill. Settled primary sludge and
skimmings are pumped to a two -stage anaerobic digestion process. Sludge
processing includes thicken ing, two-stage anaerobic digest ion, centrifuge
dewater ing, and transported to a sanitary landfill for disposal or trucked to
contract or-operated composting facilities .
Under this Order, secondary -treated wastewater not recycled at the San
Clemente WRP is discharged to the San Clemente Land Outfall, which then
discharges to the SJCOO. From February 2019 to January 2020, the reported
average influent daily flow to the San Clemente WRP was 3.71 MGD and the
average effluent daily flow from the San Clemente WRP to the SJCOO was 2.82
MGD.
2.1.5. San Juan Capistrano Groundwater Treatment Plant
The San Juan Capistrano Groundwater Treatment Plant is located at 32470
Paseo Adelanto, San Juan Capistrano, California and treats up to 5.2 MGD of
extracted groundwater to produce potable water. Groundwater treatment
includes preliminary filtration (sand separators) ; iron and manganese
pretreatment (potassium permanganate and sodium hypochlorite addition
followed by green -sand filtration) ; chemical addition (addition of sulfuric acid,
sodium bisulfite and scale inhibitor) ; cartridge filtration ; RO treatmen t; aeration ;
pH adjustment (sodium hydroxide and ammonia hydroxide) ; and d isinfection
11Discharger’s ROWD states, “Population estimate provided by the City of San Clemente. Corresponds
to a wastewater flow contribution of 61 gallons per capita per day, based on an average San Clemente
WRF influent flow of 3.23 MGD during January 2015 through June 2016.”
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9 -2022-0005 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9 -2024 -0005
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107 417
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11(sodium hypochlorite) . The San Juan Capistrano Groundwater Treatment Plant
discharges up to 2.2 MGD of the waste brine from the RO to the Chiquita Land
Outfall, which then discharges to the SJCOO. From February 2019 to January
2020, the reported average effluent daily flow from the San Juan Capistrano
Groundwater Treatment Plant to the SJCOO was 0.52 MGD.
2.1.6. South Coast Water District Groundwater Recovery Facility
The SCWD Groundwater Recovery Facility is located at 33750 Stonehill Drive,
Dana Point, California. At this facility, SCWD treats extracted groundwater from
the Lower San Juan Groundwater Basin to produce potable supply. Treatment
includes pretreatment (threshold inhibitor and cartridge filtration) ; RO treatment ;
decarbonation (pH adjustment) ; and stabilization /disinfection (sodium
hypochlorite, aqueous ammonia, and sodium hydroxide). A portion of the
extracted groundwater bypasses RO treatment and is treat ed for iron and
manganese removal. The SCWD discharges up to 0.6 MGD of the resulting
waste brine from the RO and iron/manganese backwash to the Chiquita Land
Outfall, which discharges to the SJCOO. From February 2019 to January 2020,
the reported average effluent daily flow from the SCWD Groundwater Recovery
Facility to the SJCOO was 0.16 MGD.
2.1.7. Segunda Deshecha Runoff Plant
The Segunda Deshecha Runoff Plant is located at 3115 Avenida Pico, San
Clemente, California . At this facility, the City of San Clemente diverts up to 1.01
MGD of dry weather urban runoff flows from the Segunda Deshecha (M02) Flood
Control Channel through the Segunda Deshecha Runoff Plant for treatment by
preliminary screening and pressure filtration. The Segunda Deshecha Runoff
Plant discharges up to 1.0 MGD of treated urban runoff to the San Clemente
Land Outfall for conveyance to the SJCOO . The filter backwash water from the
treatment facility is disch arged into the San Clemente WRP sewer collection
system. From February 2019 to October 2021 , the City of San Clemente reported
no discharge from the Segunda Deshecha Runoff Plant to the SJCOO.
2.1.8. SCWD Doheny Desalination Project
The proposed Doheny Desalination Project will be located at 34400 Coast
Highway, Dana Point, CA 92629, Orange County. Once constructed and
operational, this facility will treat seawater to produce up to 5 MGD of drinking
water . The facility will consist of a subsurface slant well water intake system, an
ocean water conveyance pipeline, a desalination facility, a brine disposal system,
a brine discharge tank, a product water storage tank and distribution system, and
a solids han dling facility. The treatment system will likely include pretreatment
consisting of flocculation, sedimentation, catalytic media filtration , RO
membranes, and post treatment conditioning , which will include UV disinfection,
calcite contactors, and a product water storage tank sized to provide necessary
chlorine contact time . The RO membranes will be cleaned periodically with low
and high pH RO cleaning chemicals that are National Sanitation Foundation -
certified. These chemicals will be neutralized on -site and discharged to the
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9 -2022-0005 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9 -2024 -0005
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107 417
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-12sanitary sewer system .
RO brine concentrate and the calcite contactor backwash will be discharged to
the Brine Discharge Holding Tank. The Brine Discharge Holding Tank would
allow for brine storage during periods of low wastewater flows to the SJCOO.
The Brine Pump Station will discharge the RO brine concentrate and the calcite
contactor backwash to the SJCOO, where it will commingle with existing
wastewater stream from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant , Chiquita
WRP, 3A WRP, and San Clemente WRP. Off-spec product water would also be
discharged from the Product Water Storage Tank to the SJCOO and commingled
with the existing wastewater stream .
Preliminary design of the facility has been completed, and SCWD will utilize a
design -build contractor for final facility design and construction which will include
a product water recovery rate between 35% to 60%. The Doheny Desalination
Project will have an initial potable water capacity of 5 MGD, with a potential
expansion to 15 MGD in future phases.
Based on a RO recovery rate of 50% and a drinking water production of 5 MGD,
this Order regulates the subsurface intake flows of 10 MGD and the Doheny
Desalination Project effluent flows of 5 MGD.
2.1.9. Land Outfalls Tributary to the SJCOO
The secondary -treated wastewater from the Chiquita WRP discharges to the
start of the Chiquita Land Outfall, a 6.0 -mile-long pipeline with a capacity of 42
MGD. The waste brine from the San Juan Capistrano Groundwater Treatment
Plant and SCWD Groundwater Recovery Facility also discharges to the Chiquita
Land Outfall and commingles with the secondary -treated wastewater from the
Chiquita WRP.
The secondary -treated wastewater from the 3A WRP discharges to the start of
the 3A Effluent Transmission Main, a 5.9 -mile-long pipeline with a capacity of 6.0
MGD. The 3A Effluent Transmission Main discharges to the Chiquita Land
Outfall. The effluent from the four facilities above discharges from the Chiquita
Land Outfall to the SJCOO.
The secondary -treated wastewater from the San Clemente WRP and the treated
runoff from the Segunda Deshecha Runoff Plant discharges to the San Clemente
Land Outfall, a 4.4 -mile-long pipeline with a capacity of 14 MGD. The San
Clemente Land Outfall discharg es to the SJCOO.
The secondary -treated wastewater from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment
Plant and the brine from the Doheny Desalination Project discharge directly to
the SJCOO.
Attachment B provides map s of the Facilities. Table F -2 below summarizes the
land outfalls, pipeline sizes, and rated capacity of each facility discharging to the
land outfall .
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9 -2022-0005 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9 -2024 -0005
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107 417
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-13Table F -2. Land Outfalls
Land OutfallPipeline
Capacity
(MGD)Reach
Length
(mile)Facilities Discharging to the Land
Outfall Reach
(Rated Capacity of Each Facility in
MGD)Rated
Capacity
of
Upstream
Facilities
(MGD)
3A Effluent
Transmission Main6.0 5.9 3A WRP (6.0) 6.0
Chiquita Land Outfall 42 6.0Chiquita WRP (9.0)
San Juan Capistrano Groundwater
Treatment Plant (2.2)
SCWD Groundwater Recovery
Facility (0.6)
3A WRP (6.0)17.8
San Clemente Land
Outfall14 4.4San Clemente WRP (6.98)
Segunda Deshecha Runoff Plant
(1.0)7.98
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Dischargers plan to construct the Doheny Desalination Project during the term
of this Order. The Doheny Desalination Project is described in section 2.1.8 of this
Fact Sheet.
The Dischargers plan to design and construct a new facility, the Ranch Filtration
Plant, to produce additional local water and discharge the waste brine to the
SJCOO via the Chiquita Land Outfall.
3.