existing facility and this re-issuance of waste discharge
requirements allows negligible or no expans ion of existing uses; therefore, this
Order is categorically exempt from the requirements of the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Res ources Code Section 21000, et seq.) in
accordance with Title 14, Division 6, Chapt er 3, Article 19, Section 15301 of the
California Code of Regulations.

24. This Regional Board has notified the LW D and all known interested parties of the
intent to prescribe master reclamati on permit requirements for the discharge
described in the Findings of this Order.

25. This Regional Board in a public meeting has heard and considered all comments
pertaining to the proposed discharge of waste from the FRGWRP.



 6
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT, the LWD, in order to meet the provisions contained in
Division 7 of the California Water C ode and Regulations adopted thereunder, shall
comply with the following requirements for FRGWRP:
A. PROHIBITIONS
1. Discharges of waste to lands whic h have not been specifically described in
the findings and for which valid waste discharge requirements are not in
force are prohibited.
2. The discharge of waste in a manner other than as described in the
findings of this Order is prohibited unless the discharger obtains revised
waste discharge requirements that provide for the proposed change.
3. Compliance with the Waste Discharge Prohibitions, as stated in the 1994
Basin Plan (Attachment 1), is required as a condition of this Order.
4. The discharge of wastewater shall not cause, wholly or in combination with
any other discharge(s), this Regional B oard’s objectives for the ground or
surface waters of the Carlsbad HU ( 904.00), as established in the Basin
Plan, to be exceeded.
5. Neither the treatment, storage nor disposal of waste shall create a
pollution, contamination or nuisance, as defined by Section 13050 of the
California Water Code.
6. The discharge of a 30-day average tr eated wastewater flow volume for
irrigation in excess of 1.0 MGD is pr ohibited unless the discharger obtains
revised waste discharge requirement s for the proposed increased flow.
B. DISCHARGE SPECIFICATIONS
1. Effluent used for landscape irrigation purposes shall be treated to the
most restricted level in conformance with all applicable provisions of
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3
(Reclamation Criteria) for landscaping irrigation [currently Section 60304
(a) and 60320.5].

2. The median concentration of tota l coliform bacteria measured in the
disinfected effluent shall not ex ceed an MPN of 2.2 per 100 milliliters
utilizing the bacteriological results of the last seven days for which
 7
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

analyses have been completed and the number of total coliform bacteria
shall not exceed an MPN of 23 per 100 milliliters in more than one sample
in any 30 day period. No sample shall exceed an MPN of 240 total
coliform bacteria per 100 milliliters.
3. Turbidity concentration of the re cycled water effluent from the FRGWRP
shall not exceed a 24-hour average value of 2 NTU (nephelometric
turbidity units), shall not exceed 5 NTU more than 5% of the time during a
24-hour period, and shall not exceed 10 NTU at any time.
C. RECYCLED WATER PURVEYANCE REQUIREMENTS
1. If the LWD begins purveyance of reclaimed water directly to parties other
than itself (for onsite use only) or the CMWD, the LWD shall be
considered a Recycled Water Agency and shall be subject to the
provisions of this section. The LW D shall notify the Regional Board 120
days prior to commencement of the purveyance of reclaimed water
directly to parties other than the CMWD.
2. The Recycling Water Agency shall establish new Regional Board, State
DHS and the San Diego County Departm ent of Environmental Health
(County DEH) approved Rules and Regulations for Recycled Water Users
governing the design and construction of recycled water use facilities and
the use of recycled water. The Recycled Water Agency shall ensure that
the rules and regulations are implem ented and enforced with respect to
the recycled water users. The Recycled Water Agency shall certify prior
to the commencement of purveyance, that the Recycled Water Agency’s
Rules and Regulations for Recycled Water Users are consistent with the
requirements contained in Attachment No. 2 of this Order.
3. The Recycled Water Agency shall ce rtify, prior to commencement of
purveyance, that it has developed and submitted for approval a program
to conduct compliance inspections of recycled water reuse sites to the
Regional Board, State DHS and County DEH. Inspections shall determine
the status of compliance with the Recycled Water Agency's approved
rules and regulations for recycled water users.
4. The Recycled Water Agency shall ce rtify, prior to commencement of
purveyance, that the following information has been developed and is
available to the State DHS and the County DEH, for all current recycled
water use areas:
a. The number, location, and type of facilities within the use area
 8
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

proposing to use domestic and recycled water. "Facility" means
any type of building or structure, or defined area of specific public
use that utilizes or proposes to utilize a dual plumbed system.
b. The average number of persons estimated to be served by each
facility on a daily basis.
c. The specific boundaries of the pr oposed use site area including a
map showing the location of each fa cility, drinking water fountain
and impoundment to be served.
d. The person or persons responsible for operation of the recycled
water system at each use area.
e. The specific use to be made of the recycled water at each use
area.
f. The methods to be used by the Recycled Water Agency to assure
that the installation and operati on of the recycled system will not
result in cross connections between the recycled water piping
system and the potable water piping system. This shall include a
description of pressure, dye or other test methods to be used to test
the system.
g. Plans and specifications shall include the following and shall be
submitted to the State DHS and County DEH for approval:
(1) Proposed piping system to be used,
(2) Pipe locations of both the recycled and potable systems,
(3) Type and location of the outlets and plumbing fixtures that
will be accessible to the public,
(4) The methods and devices to be used to prevent backflow of
recycled water into the public water system,
(5) Plan notes relating to recycled water specific installation and
use requirements.
5. The Recycled Water Agency shall do the following for all reuse sites:
a. Enforce recycled water rules and regulations,
b. Conduct recycled water reuse site compliance inspections in
accordance with the program s ubmitted in compliance with
Recycled Water Purveyance Requirem ents C.3 of this Order,
c. Notify the State DHS and the County DEH of any incidence of
recycled water backflow into the potable water system as soon as
possible, but in no case later than 24 hours of finding the incident,
and
 9
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

d. Maintain a current list of all on-site recycled water supervisors.
6. Prior to providing recycled water to a dual plumbed system as defined in
Title 22, Chapter 3, Article 1, of the California Code of Regulations, the
Recycled Water Agency shall obtain an amendment to this Order.
7. Recycled water shall not be supplied to parties who use, transport, or
store such water in a manner which c auses a pollution, contamination or
nuisance, as defined by Section 13050 of the California Water Code.
D. FACILITY DESIGN AND OPERATION SPECIFICATIONS
1. PROPER OPERATION
 The LWD shall, at all times, proper ly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control ( and related appurtenances) which are
installed or used by the LWD to achieve compliance with conditions of this
Order. Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance,
adequate funding, adequate operator st affing and training, and adequate
laboratory and process controls in cluding appropriate quality assurance
procedures. This provision requires the operation of backup or auxiliary
facilities or similar systems only when necessary to achieve compliance with
the conditions of this Order.
2. WET WEATHER STORAGE
The discharger shall provide adequat e storage facilities to contain
recycled water, or have in place alternate recycled water disposal
methods approved by the Regional B oard, during and after periods of
rainfall when disposal by irrigation cannot be successfully practiced and to
prevent the discharge of treated or untreated recycled water to any
surface water body.
3. COAGULATION ALTERNATIVE
 Coagulation need not be used as part of the treatment process provided
that the filter effluent turbidity does not exceed 2 NTU, the turbidity of the
influent to the filters is continuously measured, the influent turbidity does
not exceed 5 NTU for more than 15 minutes and never exceeds 10 NTU,
and that there is capability to automatic ally activate chemical addition or
divert wastewater should the turbidity of the influent to the filters exceed 5
NTU for more than 15 minutes.
 10
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

4. DISINFECTION PROCESS
Disinfection of recycled water shall comply with all requirements of
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 4. Disinfection may be
accomplished by either:
a. A chlorine disinfection process that provides a CT (chlorine
concentration times modal contact time) value of not less than 450
mg-min/liter at all times with a m odal chlorine contact time of at
least 90 minutes based on peak dry weather design flow; or
b. A disinfection process, tha t, when combined with the filtration
process, has been demonstrated to reduce the concentration of
plaque-forming units of F-specific bacteriophage MS2, or polio
virus, per unit volume of water in the wastewater to one hundred
thousandths (1/100,000) of the init ial concentration in the filter
influent throughout the range of qua lities of wastewater that will
occur during the recycling process. A virus that is at least as
resistant to disinfection as polio virus may be used for purposes of
the demonstration.
5. OPERATION MANUAL
 A copy of the facility operations manual shall be maintained at the
FRGWRP and shall be available to operation personnel and Regional
Board staff upon request at all times. The following portions of the
operations manual shall be posted at the treatment plant as a quick
reference for treatment plant operators:
 a. Alarm set points for secondary turbidity, tertiary turbidity and
chlorine residual.
 b. Levels at which flow will be diverted for secondary turbidity, tertiary
turbidity and chlorine residual.
 c. When to divert flow for high daily and weekly median total coliform.
 d. When the authorities (State DHS, County DEH, Regional Board)
will be notified of a diversion.
 e. Names and numbers of those author ities to be notified in case of a
diversion.
 f. Frequency of calibration for turbidimeters and chlorine residual
analyzers.
 11
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

6. OPERATORS CERTIFICATION
 The LWD’s wastewater treatment facilities shall be supervised and
operated by persons possessing certific ates of appropriate grade pursuant
to Division 3, Chapter 26, Title 23 of the California Code of Regulations.
7. RUNOFF AND FLOOD PROTECTION
a. The discharge to any landscape impoundment, including the La
Costa Golf Course storage pond, shall be terminated whenever
rainfall or flooding is likely to cause the impoundment to overflow.
b. All waste treatment, storage and purveyance facilities, with the
exception of irrigation areas and the La Costa Golf Course storage
pond, shall be protected against 100- year peak stream flows as
defined by the San Diego County flood control agency.
c. All wastewater and recycled wate r storage facilities, with the
exception of irrigation areas and the La Costa Golf Course storage
pond, shall be protected against eros ion, overland runoff, and other
impacts resulting from a 100- year, 24-hour frequency storm.
8. MONITORING AND REPORTING
 The LWD shall comply with the attached Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. R9-2004-0223, and future re visions thereto as specified by
the Ex ecutive Officer. Monitoring resu lts shall be reported at the intervals
specified in Monitoring and R eporting Program No. R9-2004-0223.
9. MAINTENANCE
A preventive maintenance program s hall be provided at the FRGWRP
reclamation plant to ensure that a ll equipment is kept in a reliable
operating condition.

10. RELIABILITY REQUIREMENTS
 The LWD’s facilities shall comply with all applicable reliability requirements
contained in Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, Article 10, Alternative
Reliability Requirem ents for Uses Requiring Oxidized Disinfected
Wastewater or Oxidized, Coagulated, Clarified, Filtered, Disinfected
 12
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

Wastewater , of the California Code of Regulations.

E. BIOSOLIDS SPECIFICATIONS
 1. Collected screenings, sludges, other so lids removed from liquid wastes,
and filter backwash shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the
Executive Officer. Before sludge is disposed of by means other than
discharge to the EWPCF or a landf ill regulated under waste discharge
requirements, the discharge shall s ubmit written notification to the
Executive Officer of the proposed disposal method. Such disposal, use or
supply for reuse by others shall not be initiated until approved by the
Executive Officer.
 2. Solids and sludge treatment, storage, and disposal or reuse shall not
create a nuisance, such as objecti onable odors or flies, and shall not
result in groundwater contamination.

3. The solids and sludge treatment site and storage site shall have facilities
adequate to divert surface water runoff fr om adjacent areas, to protect the
boundaries of the site from erosion, and to prevent drainage from the
treatment and storage site. Adequate prot ection is defined as protection
from at least a 100-year storm and pr otection from the highest possible
tidal stage that may occur.

4. The discharge of sewage sludge and solids shall not cause waste material
to be in a position where it is, or c an be, conveyed from the treatment and
storage sites and deposited in the waters of the state.

F. STANDARD PROVISIONS
1. ENFORCEMENT
 The Regional Board may initiate enforcement action against the LWD,
which may result in the termination of the recycled water supply, if any
person uses, transports, or stores such water in a manner which creates,
or threatens to create conditions of po llution, contamination, or nuisance,
as defined in the California Water Code, Section 13050.
 13
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

2. DUTY TO COMPLY
 The LWD must comply with all conditions of this Order. Any
noncompliance with this Order constitu tes a violation of the California
Water Code and is grounds for (a) enforcement action; (b) termination,
revocation and reissuance, or modificati on of this Order; or (c) denial of a
report of waste discharge in applicat ion for new or revised master
reclamation permit requirements.
3. ENTRY AND INSPECTION
 The LWD shall allow the Regional B oard, or an authorized representative,
upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be
required by law to do the following:
 a. Enter upon the LWD's premises w here a regulated facility or activity
is located or conducted or where records must be kept under the
conditions of this Order,
 b. Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that
must be kept under the conditions of this Order,
 c. Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including
monitoring and control equipment), practices or operations
regulated or required under this Order, and
 d. Sample or monitor, at reasonable times for the purposes of
assuring compliance with this Order or as otherwise authorized by
the California Water Code, any s ubstances or parameters at any
location.
4. CIVIL MONETARY REMEDIES
 The California Water Code provides that any person who intentionally or
negligently violates any master recl amation permit requirements issued,
reissued, or amended by this Regional Board shall be liable civilly in
accordance with California Water Code.
5. PENALTIES FOR INVESTIGATION, MONITORING OR INSPECTION
VIOLATIONS
 The California Water Code provides that any person failing or refusing to
furnish technical or monitoring progr am reports, as required under this
Order, or falsifying any information provided in the monitoring reports is
 14
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements

guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to a civil liability for each day in
which the violation occurs.
6. ENDANGERMENT OF HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT
 The LWD shall report any noncompli ance that may endanger health or the
environment. Any such information shall be provided orally to the
Executive Officer within 24 hours from the time the LWD becomes aware
of the circumstances. A written subm ission shall also be provided within 5
days of the time the LWD becomes aware of the circumstances. The
written submission shall contain a de scription of the noncompliance and its
cause; the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and
if the noncompliance has not been corre cted; the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate,
and prevent recurrence of the noncompli ance. The Ex ecutive Officer, or
an authorized representative, may waive the written report on a case-by-
case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours. The
following occurrence(s) must be report ed to the Ex ecutive Officer within 24
hours:
a. Any bypass from any portion of t he treatment facility that will result
in noncompliance with any of the terms and conditions of this
Order. "Bypass" means the intenti onal diversion of waste streams
from any portion of a treatment facility to other than a sewer
system.
 b. Any discharge of non-disinfect ed effluent or untreated wastewater
that may endanger public health, or is greater than 1,000 gallons,
or reaches surface waters.
 c. Any treatment plant upset whic h causes the