FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The SLRWRF and the LSWTP provides municipal wastewater treatment services to a population
of approximately 180,000 within the boundaries of the City of Oceanside and a portion of the City
of Vista. Additionally, the SLRWRF serves a population of approximately 10,000 within the
Rainbow Municipal Water District. The Rainbow Municipal Water District owns 1.5 MGD of the
Discharger 's treatment capacity and is responsible for its sanitary sewer system up to the point
where it connects with the Discharger’s sanitary sewer system. To reduce pumping costs, the
Discharger has an agreement with the City of Vista for the exchange, treatment, and disposal of
equal volumes of nonindustrial wastewater generated in the respective service areas.
The MBGPF is a groundwater desalination plant that treats local brackish groundwater extracted
from the Mission Hydrologic Subarea (HSA) 903.11 to produce up to 6.37 MGD of potable water,
15 percent of the City of Oceanside’s water supply.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. San Luis Rey Water Reclamation Facility (SLRWRF)
The SLRWRF is located at 3950 N. River Road in Oceanside, California, approximately 6.5
miles from the OOO. The headworks of the SLRWRF includes mechanical bar screens and
aerated grit removal. From the headworks, the flow is diverted into the East Plant (also
known as Plant 1) and the West Plant (also known as Plant 2). Plant 1 consists of flow
equalization, primary sedimentation, biological secondary treatment by means of activated
sludge and secondary sedimentation/clarification. Plant 2 consists of primary sedimentation
and biological secondary treatment by means of activated sludge and secondary
sedimentation/clarification. The Discharger may send the Plant 1 effluent to the effluent
pump station wet well or to its tertiary treatment facility for further treatment and reuse. The
Discharger can only send the Plant 2 effluent to the effluent pump station wet well. At the
effluent pump station wet well, the Discharger disinfects the secondary-treated wastewater
with sodium hypochlorite to reduce bacteriological concentrations and pumps the
disinfected secondary-treated wastewater to the OOO. The Discharger can also temporarily
send the disinfected secondary-treated wastewater to the secondary effluent equalization
pond (new emergency pond) to ensure flows discharged from the SLRWRF to the OOO
Attachment 1
City of Oceanside Order No. R9-2019-0166
Oceanside Ocean Outfall NPDES No. CA0107433

Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 remain less than the permitted flow through the San Luis Rey Land Outfall. (See section
II.B of this Fact Sheet for more information on the San Luis Rey Land Outfall).
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the peak monthly design capacity of the SLRWRF is
15.4 MGD. This Order carries over the permitted flow of 13.5 MGD from Order No. R9-
2011-0016 (based on the permitted flow from the SLRWRF to the OOO through the San
Luis Rey Land Outfall). From December 2011 to June 2019, the average influent flow into
the SLRWRF was 8.5 MGD and the average effluent flow from the SLRWRF to the OOO
was 8.4 MGD.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from the grit removal are collected onsite and
trucked to a local landfill. The SLRWRF features gravity belt thickeners for thickening
secondary sludge, anaerobic digestion of primary and secondary sludge, and dewatering of
digested sludge using centrifuges. The SLRWRF Class B biosolids are hauled offsite by a
contractor and used for land application in Arizona. The SLRWRF utilizes Option 1
(minimum 38 percent reduction of volatile solids) to reduce vector attraction. The SLRWRF
utilizes Alternative 2 (anaerobic digestion between 15 days at 35-55 °C and 60 days at
20°C) for pathogen reduction.
The SLRWRF also features a tertiary treatment facility that produces recycled water. The
SLRWRF tertiary treatment and recycled water operations are regulated under separate
WDRs, Order No. 93-07, Waste Discharge Requirements for the San Luis Rey Wastewater
Treatment Plant City of Oceanside San Diego County. In 2018, the tertiary-treated
wastewater from the SLRWRF was reused for landscape irrigation (93 million gallons, or an
average of 0.25 MGD) and to maintain water level in Whelan Lake (57 million gallons, or
an average of 0.16 MGD).
2. La Salina Wastewater Treatment Plant (LSWTP)
The LSWTP is located at 1330 Tait Street in Oceanside, California, adjacent to the mouth
of Loma Alta Creek. Secondary treatment process at the LSWTP is accomplished by
mechanical bar screens, aerated grit removal, flow equalization, primary
sedimentation/clarification, and biological secondary treatment by means of activated
sludge and secondary sedimentation/clarification.
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the peak monthly design capacity of the LSWTP is 5.5
MGD. This Order carries over the permitted flow of 5.5 MGD from Order No. R9-2011-
0016. From December 2011 to June 2019, the average influent flow into the LSWTP was
2.8 MGD and the average effluent flow from the LSWTP to the OOO was 2.6 MGD.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from the grit removal are collected onsite and
trucked out of state to Cooper Mountain Landfill in Welton, Arizona. The LSWTP features
dissolved air floatation thickening for secondary sludge, anaerobic digestion of primary and
secondary sludge, and belt filter press dewatering of digested sludge. The LSWTP utilizes
Option 1 (minimum 38 percent reduction of volatile solids) to reduce vector attraction. The
LSWTP utilizes Alternative 1 (monitoring) for pathogen reduction.
3. Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility (MBGPF)
The MBGPF, located northwest of the intersection of Fireside Street and Heritage Street in
Oceanside, California, treats brackish groundwater for municipal potable water supply. The
MBGPF extracts groundwater from the Mission (HSA 903.11) Basin Aquifer (part of the
larger San Luis Rey Valley groundwater basin).
Attachment 1
City of Oceanside Order No. R9-2019-0166
Oceanside Ocean Outfall NPDES No. CA0107433

Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7 Treatment at the MBGPF is comprised of chemical pretreatment (hydrochloric acid and
scale inhibitor), cartridge filtration, reverse osmosis (RO) membrane filtration
(demineralization), granular activated carbon (GAC) for removal and reduction of volatile
organics (i.e. 1,2,3-trichloropropane, 1,2-dichloropropane), degasification (for removal of
hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide gases), and post-treatment disinfection by
chloramination (sodium hypochlorite and ammonium hydroxide).
The primary RO process is designed as a two-stage system with a 75% overall recovery
rate. The permitted combined capacity of the MBGPF is 6.37 MGD. There are two RO units
that can produce up to a maximum of 2.2 MGD permeate each (combined total of 4.4
MGD). The RO permeate passes through the GAC system and then is blended with
groundwater that is treated through a manganese greensand filtration system (for iron and
manganese removal) just upstream of the degasifiers. The manganese greensand filtration
system can produce up to a maximum of 1.97 MGD. Disinfection of the blended product
water occurs after the degasifiers. Backwash waste waters produced by the GAC and
manganese greensand filtration systems are discharged to an underground concrete
holding basin and subsequently pumped to the SLRWRF via a 42-inch sewer force main.
The brine waste (reject) from the primary RO process is discharged into a 24-inch ocean
outline line. At maximum design conditions this results in approximately 1.47 MGD of brine
(reject) waste. From December 2011 to February 2019, the average effluent flow from the
MBGPF to the OOO was 0.78 MGD.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger listed the following long-term wastewater efforts directed toward achieving
goals of (1) maximizing recycled water use, and (2) improving wastewater treatment and
conveyance system reliability:
1. Replacement of the LSWTP. In November 2014, the Discharger’s City Council directed
the Discharger’s Water Utilities staff to move forward with developing a facilities-planning
approach that would involve decommissioning the LSWTP, replacing the LSWTP with a
pump station, and conveying wastewater from the LSWTP site to the SLRWRF for
treatment and reuse. Under this new wastewater planning approach, the Discharger would
be positioned to make beneficial use of wastewater flows currently treated at the LSWTP
and discharged to the ocean. In accordance with this new planning direction, the Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Formatted: Subscript
Attachment 1
City of Oceanside Order No. R9-2019-0166
Oceanside Ocean Outfall NPDES No. CA0107433

Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-16 Discharger is developing an implementation plan for supporting planning, environmental
evaluation, design, permitting, and construction of required facilities.
2. Expansion of Non-potable Water System. The Discharger is expanding the non-potable
water system that conveys tertiary-treated effluent from the SLRWRF to regional recycled
water customers in accordance with San Diego Water Board Order No. 93-07. The purpose
of this expansion is to serve the El Corazon soccer fields and the Goat Hill Park Golf
Course. This effort will include converting five miles of brine pipeline to non-potable use,
constructing 4400 feet of new non-potable pipeline, and routing waste brine from the
MBGPF and Genentech, Inc. to the outfall through alternative pipes.
3. Indirect Potable Reuse (IPR) Planning Study. Since 2014, the Discharger has been
engaged in a comprehensive effort to identify opportunities to increase recycled water use
and minimize ocean discharge through the implementation of IPR, focusing on identifying
IPR opportunities consistent with recycled water groundwater recharge and extraction
regulations established by the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board),
Division of Drinking Water. Preliminary IPR planning has identified a preferred Phase 1
project that involves constructing an Advanced Water Treatment facility at the SLRWRF
and recharging and recovering 3 MGD of purified water into the Mission Basin. Proposed
Phase 2 operations would involve expanding groundwater recharge and recovery operation
to approximately 4.5 MGD. The Discharger has developed an implementation plan for this
project that identifies planning, pilot studies, environmental review, public outreach, and
regulatory evaluations required to refine the IPR project concept and verify project
economics. By email dated September 4, 2018, the Discharger stated that the advanced
water treatment plant will be online in 2021. The Discharger is working closely with the
Division of Drinking Water for the approval of the Title 22 Engineering Report and
permitting on the IPR project. The proposed project contains two to three injection wells at
3 MGD with an underground retention time of seven months. A public hearing would be
scheduled after approval of the Title 22 Engineering Report as a part of the permitting
process. The ROWD will be developed based on any comments on the engineering report.
4. Coordination with Regional Agencies. The OOO represents a significant regional asset
for accommodating brine discharges from future IPR projects or groundwater treatment
projects. The Discharger is committed to coordinating with adjoining agencies to explore
interagency opportunities to optimize use and efficiency of regional water, recycled water,
and wastewater infrastructure.
5. Fallbrook Land Outfall . By letter dated July 6, 2016, the Discharger informed the San
Diego Water Board that the Discharger and Fallbrook Public Utility District are engaged in
negotiations to transfer ownership and operation of the lower portion of the Fallbrook Land
Outfall from the Fallbrook Public Utility District to the Discharger. As part of the transfer, the
Discharger will also be supplying recycled water to the California Department of
Transportation along the lower portion of the Fallbrook Land Outfall.
III.