facility description  of the Facilities  
as reported in the ROWD. The effluent flow limitations are a component of this 
Order to ensure proper operation and maintenance of treatment processes 
and systems.14Proper oper ation includes ensuring  flows stay within the 
design capacity of the process treatment units and conveyance systems.15
Operating beyond the design capacity may result in insufficient treatment 
and/or discharges that threat en beneficial uses.  Furthermore, fe deral 
regulations require that NPDES permit effluent limitatio ns, standards, or 
prohibitions  for POTWs  be calculated based on design flow.16In compliance 
with applicable regulations, the mass -based effluent limitations in  this Order 
are calculated based on  design flow of the SOCWA RTP, SOCWA CTP, Los 
Aliso WRP, and E l Toro Water District WRP .
4.3. Water Quality -Based Effluent Limitations (WQBELs)
4.3.1.  Scope and Authority
Federal CWA section 301(b) and 40 CFR section 122.44(d) require that permits 
include limitations more stringent than applicable federal technology -based 
requirements where necessary to achieve applicable water quality standards. 
Section 122.44(d)(1)(i) of  40 CFR requires that permits include effluent limitations 
for all pollutants that ar e or may be discharged at levels that have the reasonable 
potential to cause or contribute to an exceedance of a water quality standard, 
including numeric and narrative ob jectives within a standard. Where reasonable 
potential has been established for a pol lutant, but there is no numeric criterion or 
objective for the  pollutant, WQBELs must be established using: (1) USEPA 
criteria guidance under the federal CWA section 304(a ), supplemented where 
necessary by other relevant information; (2) an indicator param eter for the 
pollutant of concern; or (3) a calculated numeric  water quality criterion, such as a 
proposed State criterion or policy interpreting the State’s narrative cri terion, 
supplemented with other relevant information, as provided in 40 CFR section 
122.44(d)(1)(vi).
The process for determining reasonable potent ial and calculating WQBELs when 
necessary is intended to protect the designated uses of the receiving water a s 
specified in the Basin Plan and Ocean Plan, and achieve applicable water quality 
objectives and criteria that are contained in other State plans and policies, or any 
applicable water quality criteria contained in the Ocean Plan.
14 Section 6.3.5.2 of this Order als o requires the Di schargers to submit a treatment plant capacity report 
to the San Diego Water Board showing how flow volumes will be prevented from exceeding existing 
capacity or how capacity will be increased four years prior to reaching POTW design capac ity.
15 See 40 CFR  section 122.41 (e).
16 40 CFR section 122.45 (b)(1).
SOCWA  ORDER NO. R9 -2022 -0006
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. C A010 7611
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-324.3.2.  Applicable Benefic ial Uses and Water Quality Criteria and Objectives
The Basin Plan and Ocean Plan desi gnate beneficial uses, establish water 
quality objectives, and  contain implementation programs and policies to achieve 
those objectives for all waters.
4.3.2.1.  Basin Plan . The beneficial uses specified in the Basin Plan applicable to the 
Pacific Ocean are  summarized in section 3.3.1 of this Fact Sheet. 
The Basin Pl an water quality objective for dissolved oxygen applicable to 
ocean waters is stated as follows: “The dissolv ed oxygen concentration in 
ocean waters shall not at any time be depressed more than 10 percent from 
that which occurs naturally, as the result of the discharge of oxygen 
demanding waste materials.” 
The Basin Plan states, “The pH value shall not be change d at any time more 
than 0.2 pH units from that which occurs naturally.”
4.3.2.2.  Ocea n Plan.  The beneficial uses specified in the Ocean Plan for th e Pacific 
Ocean are summarized in section 3.3.2 of this Fact Sheet. The Ocean Plan 
also includes water qualit y objectives for the ocean receiving water for 
bacterial characteristics, physical ch aracteristics, chemical characteristics, 
biological characteri stics, and radioactivity.
Table 3 of the Ocean Plan includes the following water quality objectives for 
toxic pollutants and whole effluent toxicity (WET):
·Six-month median, daily maximum, and i nstantaneous maximum 
objectives for 19 chemicals and chemical characteristics, including total 
chlorine residual, for the protection of marine aquatic life.
·30-day average  objectives for 20 non -carcinogenic chemicals for the 
protection of human health. The se have been applied as AMELs.
·30-day average objectives for 4 2 carcinogenic chemicals for the protection 
of human health. These have been applied as AMELs.
·Daily maximum objectives for acute and chronic toxicity.
4.3.3.  Determining the Need for WQBELs
The San Diego Water Board evaluated the need for effluent limitat ions for non -
conventional and toxic pollutant parameters, based on water quality objectives in 
Table 3 of the  Ocean Plan. The evaluation was performed in accordance with 40 
CFR section 122.44(d)  and guidance for statistically determining the “reasonable 
potential” for a discharged pollutant to exceed an objective, as outlined in the 
revised Technical Support Docu ment for Water Quality -based Toxics Control  
(TSD; EPA/505/2 -90-001, 1991) and the Oce an Plan Reasonable Potential 
Analysis (RPA) Amendment that was  adopted by the State Water Board on April 
21, 2005. The statistical approach combines knowledge of effluent variability (as 
estimated by a coefficient of variation) with the uncertainty due to a limited 
amount of effluent data to estimate a maximum efflue nt value at a high level of 
confidence. This estimated maximum effluent value is based on a lognormal 
distribution of daily effluent values. Projected r eceiving water values (based on 
SOCWA  ORDER NO. R9 -2022 -0006
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. C A010 7611
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-33the estima ted maximum effluent value or the reported maximum effluent va lue 
and minimum probable initial dilution) can then be compared to the appropriate 
objective to determine potential for an exceedance of that objective and the need 
for an effluent limitation. A ccording to the Ocean Plan amendment, the RPA can 
yield three endpoints: 1) Endpoint 1, an effluent limitation is required and 
monitoring is required; 2) Endpoint 2, an effluent limitation is not required and the 
San Diego Water Board may require monitorin g; and 3) Endpoint 3, the RPA is 
inconclusive, monitoring is r equired, and an existing effluent limitation may be 
retained or a permit reopener clause may be included to allow inclusion of an 
effluent limitation if  future monitoring warrants the inclusion.  Endpoint 3 is 
typically the result when there are fewer than 16 data points and all are censored 
data (i.e., below quantitation or method detection levels (MDLs) for an analytical 
procedure).
The implementation pr ovisions for Table 3 of the Ocean Plan spe cify that the 
minimum probable initial dilution is the lowest average initial dilution within any 
single month of the year. Dilution estimates are to be based on observed waste 
flow characteristics, observed receiv ing water density structure, and the 
assum ption that no currents, of sufficient strength to influence th e initial dilution 
process, flow across the discharge structure. Before establishing a dilution credit 
for a discharge, it must first be determined if, and how much, receiving water is 
available  to dilute the discharge.
Before 2001, the State Water Board d etermined the minimum probable initial 
dilution factor to be 260:1 using the computer model UMERGE and 27 MGD of 
secondary -treated wastewater. In 2004, the San Diego Water Board reevaluated 
the minimal probable initial dilution with a discharge consisting of 26 MGD of 
secondary -treated wastewater and 1 MGD of RO waste brine when considering 
authorization of waste brine from the Irvine Desalter Project. Ba sed on that 
reevaluation, the San Diego Wa ter Board determined that the addition of the RO 
waste brine w ould not have a significant impact on the minimum probable initial 
dilution factor. An initial dilution factor of 260:1 was used in Order Nos. R9 -2001 -
0008 and R9 -2006 -0055. In 2012, the San Die go Water Board reevaluated the 
minimal probable initial diluti on with a permitted flow rate of 34.37 MGD using the 
USEPA Modeling Application Visual Plumes. Based on this reevaluation, the 
minimum probable initial dilution factor was calculated to be 237:1 . An initial 
dilution factor of 237:1 was used in Order No. R9 -2012 -0013. Additional details of 
the 2012 initial dilution computer modeling results are provided in Attachment H 
of Order No. R9 -2012 -0013 and in the San Diego Water Board records. On 
December  31, 2018, SOCWA submitted the Hydrodynamic Modeling Study for  
the San Juan Creek and Aliso Creek Ocean Outfalls , dated May 14, 2018, to the 
San Diego Water Board. Based on that study, the minimum probable initial 
dilution factor of 234:1 with a 39.6 -meter  horizontal spread was calculated for the 
discharge of up to 3 5 MGD of effluent through the ACOO using the April 2014 
receiving water data for determining the lowest average initial dilution within any 
single month  of the year. Thus, this Order reduces the  dilution factor from 237:1 
to 234:1.
SOCWA  ORDER NO. R9 -2022 -0006
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. C A010 7611
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-34Conventional pollutants were not considered as part of the RPA. TBELs for these 
pollutants are included in this Order as described in section 4.2 of this Fact 
Sheet. 
Using the  RPcalc 2.0 software tool developed by the  State Water Board for 
conducting RPAs, the San Diego Water Bo ard has conducted the RPA for the 
constituents listed in Table F -15 below. For constituents that do