FACILITIES DESCRIPTION
The ECAWP Project includes the following facilities : the ECWRF , the Solids Handling 
Facility, the ECAWP Facility, the dechlorination  facility , and the potable reuse 
conveyance facilities  (collectively referred to as the Facilities). A map and flow 
schematic of the Facilities is provided respectively in Attachment B and C  of the Order.
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The ECAWP Project is a potable reuse project that will produce advanced treated  
water to : 1) augment Lake Jennings, which serves as a water supply source for the 
Helix Water District ’s (Helix WD) R.M.  Levy Drinking Water Treatment Plant  
(DWTP) , and 2)  maintain Santee  Lakes , which is a regional recreational area and 
park owned and operated by Padre Dam Municipal Water District (Padre Dam) . 
Padre Dam, the City of El Cajon, and the Lakeside/Alpine and Winter Gardens 
sewer service areas of the San Diego County Sanita tion District serve as the 
wastewater sources for the ECAWP Project.  Wastewater from these sources will be 
diverted to the ECWRF  from the Ray Stoyer WRF Influent Pump Station and the 
East Mission Gorge Pump Station.  As part of the ECAWP Project, the ECAWP JPA 
acquired the East Mission Gorge Pump Station from the City of San Diego (City) 
and reconfigure d the pump station to direct wastewater to the ECWRF  via a new 
force main. The ECAWP Project may also receive return flows from Santee Lakes, 
to maximize recycled water availability during periods of peak demand.50
2.1.1.  East County Water Recycling Facility ( ECWRF)
Prior to the ECAWP Project, Padre Dam diverted up to 2.0 MGD of East County 
wastewater flows to the Ray Stoyer WRF. Tertiary treated recycled water from the 
50During months of peak recycled water demand, in lieu of discharging flow from Lake No. 
1 to Sycamore Creek, flow from the Santee Lakes would be pumped back to the ECWRF  
for treatment and reuse.
ECAWP JPA  Order No. R9 -2025 -0003
Discharges to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek NPDES No. CA900001
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-4Ray Stoyer WRF was then discharged to 1) Santee Lakes and Sycamore Creek 
and 2) non -potable customers.
The ECAWP Project dismantled the majority of the Roy Stoyer WRF  and replaced 
it with the new 16 MGD ECWRF . The treatment processes at the ECWRF  
include s, in order of flow :
·Screening and grit removal units .
·Primary clarifiers , with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal .
·An equalization tank .
·Bioreactors  for nutrient removal , that include a 4-stage Bardenpho process .
·Secondary clarifiers , with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
·Granular media filters (GMFs);
·A chlorine contact basin (remnant from the former Ray  Stoyer WRF chlorine 
contact basins ).
·An odor control unit.
During normal operation, final effluent produced from the ECWRF  will serve : 1) as 
the source water for the ECAWP Facility, and 2) non-potable customers . The 
production and reuse of tertiary treated disinfected non-potable recycled 
wastewater will be regulated under separate WDRs and WRR s, as requested by 
the Discharger.
2.1.2.  Solids Handling Facility
The ECAWP JPA will treat s ludge from the ECWRF  primary and secondary 
clarifiers at the Solids Handling Facility . The Solids Handling Facility will produce 
Class B solids for beneficial use  outside the state of California  or for landfill 
disposal. The t reatment processes at the Solids Handling Facility include s a rotary 
drum for sludge thickening, anaerobic digestion, digested sludge storage, 
centrifuge dewatering, cake storage and loadout facilities, and biogas handling. 
Sludge will be thickened before being fed to the anaerobic digesters. The digested 
sludge will be dewatered and the centrate from dewatering will gravity flow to a 
residuals bypass pump station. Thickener supernatant will be returned to the 
ECWRF  for treatment, while centrate will be discharged to the Metro System via a 
residuals bypass pipeline. 
2.1.3.  ECAWP Facility
The ECAWP Facility will treat up to 15.2 MGD  of tertiary filtered effluent from the 
ECWRF  to produce a maximum flow of 13.7 MGD  of advanced treated recycled 
water. The ECAWP JPA will direct a maximum of 12.5 MGD  of advanced treated 
recycled water to Lake Jennings and will direct the remainder to Santee Lakes. 
The anticipated average annual product water flow to Lake Jennings will be about  
11.5 MGD . Treatment processes at the ECAWP Facility consist s of MF, reverse 
osmosis, ultraviolet light with advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP) and post -
ECAWP JPA  Order No. R9 -2025 -0003
Discharges to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek NPDES No. CA900001
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-5stabilization. The ECAWP JPA will  minimize corrosion and treatability issues, by 
using a post-stabilization treatment of carbon dioxide and hydrated lime to adjust 
the product water pH to  between  7.5 and 8.5 pH units and to elevate alkalinity. 
After stabilization, the ECAWP Facility product water used for indirect potable 
reuse will be chlorinated  to ensure that a free chlorine residual is maintained in the 
pipeline to Lake Jennings. Backwash flows from the microfiltration process will be 
collected and retu rned to the ECWRF  influent stream ahead of the primary 
clarifiers. R everse osmosis (RO)  concentrate will be discharged to the Metro 
System via the East County Residuals Line ( a regional brine51line) for treatment 
and disposal.  The discharge of RO concentrate will bypass the City’s North City 
Water Reclamation Plant and Pure Water facilities and be directed to the City’s 
E.W. Blom Point Loma Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment Plant
2.1.4.  Potable Reuse Conveyance, Dechlorination, and Reservoir Augmentation 
Chlorinated advanced treated recycled water is conveyed to Lake Jennings via a 
12.5 MGD  product water pump station , located at the ECAWP Facility and a 
53,500 foot long, 24 -inch diameter pipeline. The dechlorination facility adjacent to 
Lake Jennings will reduce chlorine residual levels in the discharged water to 
nondetectable levels. Advanced treated recycled water is discharged to Lake 
Jennings via a submerged Y -shaped nozzle structure.
2.1.5.  East County Residuals Line
The East County Residuals Line divert s brine from the ECAWP Facility and 
centrate from the Solids Handling Facility to wastewater conveyance facilities that 
feed into the City’s E.W. Blom Point Loma Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment 
Plant  bypassing the C ity’s North City Water Reclamation Plant and Pure Water 
facilities.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
2.2.1.  Discharge Point 001 - Lake Jennings 
The ECAWP Facility has a maximum capacity of 13.7 MGD  and an annual 
average flow of 12.7 MGD . The ECAWP Facility is designed to provide a 
consistent flow of 12.5 MGD  to Lake Jennings, with about 11.5 MGD  discharged 
to Lake Jennings on an annual average basis. 
Lake Jennings serves as a n additional  source of raw water supply52to the 
adjacent  Helix WD R.M. Levy DWTP. Lake Jennings has a maximum storage 
capacity of 9,790 acre -feet and a surface area of approximately 135 acres. Helix 
WD allows recreational fishing along the shoreline , from a floating dock , and from 
boats on the water . The Lake Jennings watershed is only approximately 1.6 
square miles, and surface runoff contributes a  small amount (less than 5 percent) 
of the reservoir inflow. As a result, Helix WD historically relied on imported water 
51See Attachment A for definitions of abbreviations and a glossary of common terms used 
in this Order.
52The Helix WD R.M. Levy DWTP also receives imported water from the San Diego 
County Water Authority .
ECAWP JPA  Order No. R9 -2025 -0003
Discharges to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek NPDES No. CA900001
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-6supplies to maintain Lake Jennings water levels. Because almost all inflow  to the 
reservoir is controlled by Helix  WD, the reservoir does not overflow to downstream 
waters.  Engineered mixing, provided by an aerator and air curtain system, is used 
to enhance  reservoir circulation, prevent reservoir thermal stratification, and 
prevent short -circuiting within the  reservoir. The system is made of three 
components – an aerator, a straight -line air curtain, and a loop line air curtain. All 
three lines diffuse com pressed air into the water column to promote mixing and 
prevent short circuiting of the advanced treated water from the inlet piping in the 
northern arm to the inlet/outlet tower at the west end of the reservoir near the 
dam. The aerator is 144 -foot long a nd is located just south of the inlet/outlet tower. 
The straight line air curtain is 495 -feet long and runs across the lake from north to 
south. The loop line air curtain is 785 -feet long and wraps around the end of 
Sentry Point. These three systems will b e operated in accordance with the 
Operations Plan based on the reservoir level and amount of advanced treated 
water inflow to maintain 100:1 dilution or more.
2.2.2.  Discharge Point 002 –Sycamore Creek 
Prior to the completion of the ECAWP Project, Padre Dam directed d isinfected 
tertiary treated effluent from the Ray Stoyer WRF to Sante Lakes to maintain 
water levels in the lakes . Santee Lakes consists of seven lakes with a total volume 
of 131.5 million gallons which flow in series beginning with Lake No. 7 and ending 
with Lake No. 1, which ultimately discharges to Sycamore Creek, a tributary to the 
San Diego River. The San Diego Water Board regulated the d ischarge of tertiary 
treated effluent from the Ray  Stoyer WRF to Sycamore Creek through Order No. 
R9-2022 -0003 , as described in section 1.4 of this Fact Sheet . The Ray Stoyer 
WRF ceased all discharges and was removed from service in May 2025.
Currently, the ECAWP Project  will direct d echlorinated effluent from the ECAWP 
Facility to Santee Lakes and Sycamore Creek , replacing the effluent discharge 
from the Ray Stoyer WRF. The ECAWP JPA will direct  the following  types of 
discharges  from the ECAWP Facility to Santee Lakes and Sycamore  Creek 
(Discharge Location 002) :
·Routine discharges of dechlorinated ECWRF /ECAWP Facility recycled  water 
to Lake No. 7 in order to maintain lake water levels and make up for 
evaporative or other water losses in the lakes.
·If required, short -term discharges of “off spec ification ” effluent from ECAWP 
Facility that meets requirements for discharge to the Santee Lakes 
(Discharge Location 002) but does not meet State Water Resources Control 
Board, Division of Drinking Water ( DDW ) requirements for discharge to Lake 
Jennings (Discharge Location 001). Such  off-specification  discharges would 
be short -term in nature, potentially ranging from several hours to one or two 
days, depending on the flow rate.
2.3. ECAWP JPA Operations
The ECAWP Project is operated by the ECAWP JPA, which is  responsible for the 
following:
ECAWP JPA  Order No. R9 -2025 -0003
Discharges to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek NPDES No. CA900001
Attachment F – Fact Sheet   F-7·Wastewater diversion from the collection system to the ECWRF ;
·Treatment operations at the ECWRF , Solids Handling Facility, ECAWP 
Facility, and dechlorination facilities;
·Conveyance and discharge to Lake Jennings (Discharge Location 00 1); and
·Conveyance and discharge to the Santee Lakes (Discharge Location 00 2).
The ECAWP JPA is also responsible for complying with all effluent limitations 
established by the San Diego Water Board, and  any ECWRF  or ECAWP Facility 
treatment or reliability requirements established by the San Diego Water Board or 
DDW . Padre  Dam is responsible for day-to-day operations of the F acilities.  Helix 
WD, the owner and operator of  Lake Jennings , is responsible for manag ing 
reservoir diversions to the R.M . Levy DWTP . The ECAWP  JPA and Helix WD 
coordinate to ensure that recycled water  delivered to the  R.M. Levy DWTP  comply 
with all applicable DDW  requirements.
The ECAWP Project (detailed in the Title 22 Engineering Report) has several failure 
response elements to ensure reliability. In order of implementation, these include (1) 
diversion to Santee Lakes (Discharge Location 002), (2) diversion of UV/AOP 
effluent to the  Metro System , (3) diversion of ECWRF  flow to the Metro System, and 
(4) decoupling from Lake Jennings through use of an alternate water source. The 
ECAWP  Project will use a graded system -wide alarm and response framework to 
detect production of off -specification water and to standardize failure response to 
treatment excursions.
3.