TypeGroundwater
1.1. The Discharger is a public joint powers authority established pursuant to
California Government Code section 6500 et seq. which consists of the following
member agencies: Padre Dam Municipal Water District (Padre Dam) , the City of
El Cajon, and the County of San Diego. The Discharger is the owner of the East
County Advanced Water Purification (ECAWP) project which consists of the
ECWRF , a solids handling facility , the ECAWP Facility, a dechlorination facility,
and potable reuse conveyance facilities , which are collectively referred to as the
Facilities. Attachment B provides a map of the Facilities. Attachment C provides
a flow schematic of the Facilities.

For the purposes of the Order, references to the “discharger” or “permittee” in
applicable federal and State laws, regulations, plans, or policy are held to be
equivalent to references to the Discharger herein.
1.2. The new ECWRF will replace the Padre Dam Ray Stoyer W ater Recycling
Facility (Ray Stoyer WRF) . The San Diego Water Board regulated the Ray
Stoyer WRF under the following Orders:
·Order No. 97-49, Waste Discharge and Water Recycling Requirements for
the Production and Purveyance of Recycled Water for Padre Dam
Municipal Water District, San Diego County (Order No. 97 -49); and
·Order No. R9 -2022 -0003 NPDES No. CA0107492 , Waste Discharge
Requirements for the Padre Dam Municipal Water District, Ray Stoyer
Water Recycling Facility, Discharge s to Sycamore Creek, San Diego
County (Order No. R9 -2022 -0003) .
The Order establishes requirements for the treatment of domestic wastewater at
the ECWRF and replaces and supersedes Order No. 97-49. The ECWRF will
serve as source water for the ECAWP Facility. Most of the advanced treated
recycled water from the ECAWP Facility will be discharged to Lake Jennings,
with a smaller volume discharged to Santee Lakes and Sycamore Creek. Lake
Jennings and Sycamore Creek are both waters of the United States. Discharges
of advanced treated recycled water from the ECAWP Facility to Lake Jennings
and Sycamore Creek are regulated under Order No. R9 -2025 -0003 NPDES No.
CA 9000001, Waste Discharge Requirements for the East Co unty Advanced
Water Purification Joint Powers Authority East County Advanced Water
Purification Project Discharge to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek (Order No.
R9-2025 -0003 ).
1.3. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge (ROWD) and applied for
issuance of waste discharge requirements (WDRs) on June 7, 2024.
1.4. The Order contains a delayed effective date due to construction activities and
related non -discharge until construction is completed and the EC WRF is
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-3operational. The Discharger anticipates completing construction of the ECWRF
Facility in late summer of 2026 or early fall of 2026 and plans to initiate the
production of non -potable recycled water , shortly thereafter. Therefore, the
effective date of the Order has been delayed until June 1, 2026.
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The ECAWP Project is a potable reuse project that will produce advanced
treated water to augment Lake Jennings, which serves as a water supply source
for the Helix Water District’s (Helix WD) R.M. Levy Drinking Water Treatment
Plant. The ECAWP P roject will also provide a new water supply to maintain
Santee Lakes. Currently, wastewater from the eastern portion of San Diego
County is discharged to the City of San Diego’s Metropolitan Sewerage System
(Metro System). A portion of the East County wast ewater flow was diverted by
Padre Dam for treatment at the 2.0 MGD Ray Stoyer WRF. Padre Dam used
tertiary treated recycled water from the Ray Stoyer WRF to supply water to
Santee Lakes, which is a regional recreational area and park owned and
operated by Padre Dam. Padre Dam also supplied tertiary treated recycled water
from the Ray Stoyer WRF for reuse via a non -potable (purple pipe) conveyance
system. The discharge of tertiary treated recycled water from the Ray Stoyer
WRF to Santee Lakes and Sycamore Creek was reg ulated under Order No. R9 -
2022 -0003. Order No. R9 -2022 -0003 is superseded and replaced by Order No.
R9-2025 -0003.
As part of the ECAWP Project, wastewater flows from Padre Dam, the City of El
Cajon, and the San Diego County Sanitation District are diverted to the 16 MGD
ECWRF , which replaced the Ray Stoyer WRF. Most of the flow from the ECWRF
is directed to the ECAWP Facility for advanced treatment . However, a small
portion of the effluent from the ECWRF is chlorinated and purveyed by the
ECAWP JPA to Padre Dam for distribution to recycled water users , via Padre
Dam’s non -potable conveyance system. Treatment of domestic wastewater at
the ECWRF is regulated under th e Order, while distribution of recycled water by
Padre Dam for non -potable purposes is regulated under Order WQ 2016 -0068 -
DDW, Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use.
2.1.1. East County Water Recycling Facility
The new 16 MGD ECWRF replaces and is located south of the former Ray
Stoyer WRF . Treatment processes at the ECWRF include:
·Screening and grit removal units at a headworks facility;
·Primary clarifiers with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
·An equalization tank;
·A 4-Stage Bardenpho process for biological nutrient removal;
·Secondary clarifiers with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4·Granular media filters (GMFs);
·Chlorine contact basins (the former Ray Stoyer WRF chlorine contact
basins will be used), and;
·An odor control facility.
2.1.2. Solids Handling Facility
Sludge from the ECWRF primary and secondary clarifiers is treated at a solids
handling facility. The solids handling facility produce s Class B biosolids , which
may be: (1) beneficial ly used outside California or (2) appropriately discharged
to permitted landfill. Treatment processes at the solids handling facility include
rotary drum sludge thickening, anaerobic digestion, digested sludge storage,
centrifuge dewatering, cake storage and loadout facilities, and biogas handling.
Sludge is thickened before being fed to the anaerobic digesters. The digested
sludge is then dewatered and the centrate from dewatering gravity flow s to a
residuals bypass pump station. Thickene d supernatant is returned to the
ECWRF for treatment, while centrate is discharged to the Metro System via a
residuals bypass pipeline and East County Residual Line .
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in th e Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
The Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
Water Code , commencing with section 13260.
3.2. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Padre Dam adopted a Mitigated Negative Declaration for the ECAWP Project on
December 5, 2018. On February 20, 2020, the ECAWP JPA considered the
Mitigated Negative Declaration adopted by Padre Dam for the ECAWP P roject.
On July 21, 2022, the ECAWP JPA filed a Notice of Determination for an
Amendment to the Mitigated Negative Declaration for the ECAWP P roject. The
Mitigated Negative Declaration and Amendment to the Mitigated Negative
Declaration both concluded that there were no significant impacts to hydrology
and water quality. The San Diego Water Board, as a responsible agency, is
responsible for revi ewing the Mitigated Negative Declaration. The San Diego
Water Board independently reviewed the Mitigated Negative Declaration and
Amendment to the Mitigated Negative Declaration for adequacy and concluded it
was adequate .
3.3. Water Quality Control Plan
The San Diego Water Board adopted the Water Quality Control Plan for the San
Diego Basin (Basin Plan) on September 8, 1994, that designates beneficial uses,
establishes water quality objectives (WQOs) , and contains implementation
programs and policies to achieve those objectives. Subsequent revisions to the
Basin Plan have also been adopted by the San Diego Water Board and approved
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5by the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board). Beneficial
uses listed in the Basin Plan which apply to groundwater within the Santee and
El Cajon HSAs are as follows:
Table F -2. Basin Plan Beneficial Uses
Hydrologic
UnitHydrologic
AreaHydrologic Subarea Beneficial Use(s)
San Diego
HU (907)Lower San
Diego HA
(907.1)Santee HSA (907.12)Existing:
·Municipal and Domestic
Supply (MUN );
·Agricultural Supply ( AGR );
·Industrial Service Supply
(IND); and
·Industrial Process Supply
(PROC) .
El Cajon HSA (907.13)Existing:
·MUN; and
·AGR.
Potential:
·IND; and
·PROC .
3.4. Domestic Water Quality
In compliance with Water Code section 106.3, it is the policy of the state of
California that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and
accessible water adequate for human consumption, cooking, and sanitary
purposes. Th e Order promotes that policy by requiring discharges to protect
groundwater basins with designated in the Basin Plan with the MUN beneficial
use.
3.5. Antidegradation Policy
The State Water Board established California’s antidegradation policy in State
Water Board Resolution 68 -16, Statement of Policy with Respect to Maintaining
High Quality of Waters in California (Resolution 68 -16). Resolution 68 -16 is
deemed to incorporate the federal antidegradation policy where the federal policy
applies under federal law. Resolution 68 -16 requires that existing water quality
be maintained unless degradation is justified based on specific findings. The
permitted discharge must be consisten t with Resolution 68 -16.
3.6. State Recycled Water Policy
The State Water Board adopted the Policy for Water Quality Control for Recycled
Water ( Recycled Water Policy) on February 3, 2009, and amended it on January
22, 2013, and December 11, 2018. The purpose of the Recycled Water Policy is
to increase the use of recycled water from municipal wastewater sources in a
manner that implements state and federal water quality laws. The Recycled
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6Water Policy provides direction to the Regional Water Boards, proponents of
recycled water projects, and to the public regarding the methodology and
appropriate criteria for the State Water Board and the Regional Water Boards to
use when issuing permits fo r recycled water projects. The 2018 Amendment
included permitting guidance for reservoir augmentation projects, and updates
monitoring requirements for contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) in
recycled water used for reservoir water augmentation. The Ord er includes
volumetric reporting requirements which are consistent with the Recycled Water
Policy.
3.7. Water Reclamation Statute
The California Legislature declared in Water Code section 13511 that a
substantial portion of the future water requirements of the state of California may
be economically met by the beneficial use of recycled water. The Legislature also
expressed in Water Code section 13512, the State’s intent to undertake all
possible steps to encourage development of water recycling facilities so tha t
recycled water may be made available to help meet the growing water
requirements of the State. The adoption of the Order i s consistent with the
Legislature’s declaration because it facilitates the use of recycled water to
supplement potable water supplies.
3.8. California Code of Regulations Title 22
California Code of Regulations (CCR) title 22 (title 22 CCR) , Division 4, Chapter
3 includes water recycling criteria, particularly focused on wastewater
reclamation and the use of recycled water in specific settings. The regulations set
forth the standards for ensuring water recycling practices are protective of public
health .
3.9. Other Plans, Polices and Regulations
3.9.1. Stormwater
Pursuant to Order No 2014 -0057 -DWQ, NPDES Permit No. CAS000001,
Statewide General Permit for Stormwater Discharges Associated with Industrial
Activities (Industrial General Permit), sewerage treatment plants are assigned
(per Occupational Safety and Health Administration) Standard Industrial
Classification (SIC) code 4952 (for Sewerage Systems). SIC code 4952
(https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/stormwater/sicnum.sh
tml) falls within the Regulated SIC Code for enrollment under the Industrial
General Permit. The eligibility for enrollment under the Industrial General
Permit is not based on treatment design flow or capacity of the sewerage
treatment plants. It is industria l activity that is regulated. The ECWRF has the
same SIC code (4952) and is enrolled under the Industrial General Permit . The
list of SIC codes can be found at
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/stormwater/sicnum.sht
ml.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-73.9.2. Pretreatment/Wastewater Source Control
Discharges of pollutants that may interfere with the operation of a POTW are
regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency ’s pretreatment
regulations at Code of Federal Regulations title 40 (40 CFR ) part 403. These
regulations require dischargers to develop and implement pretreatment
programs that impose limitations on industrial users of the POTW. The
Discharger’s pretreatment requirements for the ECWRF are contained in Order
No. R9 -2025 -0003 .
3.9.3. Sewage Sludge and Biosolids
The Order does not regulate the treatment, storage, or disposal of biosolids.
The Discharger’s treatment and disposal of biosolids are regulated under Order
No. R9 -2025 -0003.
4. RATIONALE FOR PROHIBITIONS,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

