R8E, MDB&M (Assessor’s Parcel Number APN 140 -0050 -024) as shown on
Attachment A, whi ch is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. The
Recreational Area consists of a general store , public restrooms and showers, a
maintenance shop, public laundry facilities, a fish cleaning station, a recreational vehicle
(RV) dump stati on, three caretaker residences , and the Performing Animal Welfare
Society (PAWS) building .
The collection and treatment system are approximately 50 years old. Domestic
wastewater from the facilities described above , with the exception of the PAWS
building , is conveyed via gravity in a small sewer system and discharged to unlined
ponds for treatment and disposal . Domestic wastewater from the PAWS building
discharges into a sump then pumped to the ponds . An additional RV site with its own
wastewater sump may be constructed next to the PAWS building at a future date. There
are two ponds. The first pond handles the majority of the wastewater load and the
second pond serves as a polishing pond. An ae rator and sprayers are used to increase
evaporation. The total combined pond capacity at 2-feet of freeboard is approximately
185,200 ft3. The overall pond depth is 5.5 ft at 2-feet of freeboard .
Park usage varies seasonally, with highest attendance betwe en late May and early
September. Influent flows are approximately 2,000 gallons per day (gpd) as an annual
average .
The WWTF accepts RV waste. The following best management practices to minimize
the threat to water quality from RV holding tank additives ar e implemented:
Ryder Couch -3- 31 Augus t 2021
SMUD Ranch Seco Recreational Area
2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5367
1.RV dump stations are locked when they are unmanned.
2.Signs prohibiting the discharge of holding tank wastes that contain products
made with formaldehyde, phenols, and/or zinc are posted near the RV dump
station.
3.Educational material regarding the threat posed by these chemicals and
alternative products to control holding tank odors are available for distribution to
park patrons.
GROUNDWATER AND SITE CONDITIONS
There is no groundwater monitoring at the site . Based on a 21 May 2008 Groundwater
Information Review performed by Youngdahl Consulting Group, Inc, groundwater
resources within the area are likely on the order of 160 feet in depth or more below
ground surface at the Recreational Area and are separated from the surface by thick
sequences of low permeability sediments .
The Recreation Area is located within the Cosumnes Subbasin of the San Joaquin
Valley Groundwater Basin. The Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA )
floodplain designa tion is Flood Zone X, area of minimal flood hazard .
SITE -SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all wastewater
treatment system s as well as those that only apply to specific treatment and/or disposal
systems. The specific requirements and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

