Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary
Treatment Mechanical bar screen, screenings grinder,
compactor/washer and vortex grit separator.
Headworks capacity (gpd): 1,500,000
Primary Treatment None. All wastewater sent directly to sequencing batch
reactor process.
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): Not applicable.
Secondary Treatment The facility uses a sequencing batch reactor performing
activated sludge secondary treatment . There are three
seperate reactors working is sequence performing
equalization, biological treatment, and secondary clarification. The facility typically operates with two of the
three tanks, within the following process:
- Each reactor is capable of treating 500,000 gpd.
- Each tank completes 2 to 3 cycles per 24-h our period
depending on flow.
- Each tank starts with a mixed and aerated fill cyc le.
- The air is controlled by dissolved oxygen and oxidation-
reduction potential set points.
- When the tank reaches optimum oxidation potential the
air is shut off temporarily to allow for denitrification.
- The react cycle continues the air cycles without any more
fill to ensure the wastewater is completely treated.
- After the react cycle, the tank goes into settle mode.
- The treated water is decanted off the top with a floating
decanter.
- Lastly, the waste sludge cycle pulls sludge from the
bottom of the tank and sends it to the aerobic digester.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 1,500,000
Tertiary Treatment Not Applicable
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): Not Applicable
Disinfection Not Applicable
City of Solvang - 3 - October 1 9, 2023
Wastwater Treatment Facility
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): Not Applicable
Wastewater Disposal
Method Treated e ffluent is discharged into a 1-acre-foot lined
polishing pond and then flows into one of two percolation basins. The primary percolation basin has a capacity of 1.4
acre-feet. The second percolation basin has a capacity of
0.75 acre- feet. The percolation basins undergo annual
cleanning and bottom ripping.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 1,500,000
Biosolids/Sludge Production and Handling Biosolids are sent to an aerobic digester. Approximately
150,000 gallons of digest ate is dewatered three days a
week primarily on a three belt two meter Ashbrook Belt Filter Press. A cationic polymer is added to the digestate onto the belt press. Filtrate is captured under the prese and drains back to the facility influent sump pit. The press
produces cake between 15% and 18% solids. The cake is loaded into roll off bins and is trucked to Engel
and Gray in Santa Maria where it is composted and
repurposed as fertilizer.
Annual production of biosolids: approximately 1,260 tons
Biosolids produ ced are collected by Engel & Gray, Inc. and
transported to 745 Betteravia R oad, Santa Maria .
Non-Potable Recycled
Water Non-potable recycled
water produced onsite: Not Applicable
Recycled water usage areas: Not Applicable
Enrolled in WQ 2016 -
0068 -DDW: Not Applicable
Recycled water production
volume (gpd): Not Applicable
 A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3, which were reported in City of Solvang ’s quarterly monitoring reports. The Central Coast
Water Board used reported effluent water quality data to establish the effluent and groundwater limitations in section 3.

Table 3. Historic and Recent Average E ffluent Water Quality
Constituents Units Historical
Average [2] Annual Average
for 2021[3]
Biochemical Oxygen Demand, 5- Day mg/L
[1] 16 9
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 8 0.25
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 900 912
Chloride mg/L 203 228
Sodium mg/L 175 189
Sulfate mg/L Not Analyzed Not Analyzed
City of Solvang - 4 - October 1 9, 2023
Wastwater Treatment Facility
Constituents Units Historical
Average [2] Annual Average
for 2021[3]
Boron mg/L Not Analyzed Not Analyzed
Total Nitrogen mg/L 11 9.6
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Not Analyzed Not Analyzed
[1] mg/L denotes milligrams per liter
[2] Based on effluent water quality data reported by City of Solvang 2012 to 2019 . Total Nitrogen
effluent data is limited to data collected from 2016 through 2021.
[3] Based on effluent water quality data reported by City of Solvang in 2021.

3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
City of Solvang must operate the Wastewater System in accordance with the General
Permit and this n otice of applicability. City of Solvang must comply with the wastewater
limitations specified in Tables 4 through 8.

Flow limitations are shown in Table 4. Interim

===PLANNED CHANGES===

