wastewater treatment and disposal;
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for
emergency and routine situations;
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
devices were last calibrated, including identification of who performed the
calibrations (standard Provision C.4);
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the
· dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy;
5. The results of an ann~al evaluation conducted pursuant fo Standard Provisions E.4
and a figure depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar
years;
6. The most recent water supply report including laboratory data;
7. A summary of sludge monitoring, including:
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids;
b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow diagram;
and
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to
the disposal methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used,
include the percentage of sludge production disposed of by each method.
i. For landfill disposal, include (a) the Order numbers that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c)
the names and locations of the facilities receiving the sludge.
ii. For land application, include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the
Order number of any WDRs that regulates the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where
sludge incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
site(s), (c) the disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of
facilities receiving ash (if applicable); and
/~~ ·-1
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. R5-2007-0123
PIXLEY PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT WWTF
TULARE COUNTY
iv. For composting, include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s). -10-
8. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If
violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken
and planned to bring the discharge into full compliance with this Order.
Groundwater: An Annual Groundwater Monitoring Report shall be prepared as a
fourth quarter groundwater monitoring report. The Annual Groundwater Monitoring
Report will include all groundwater monitoring data required in the monthly/quarterly
groundwater monitoring schedule plus the results of any annually sampled groundwater
constituents (general minerals, selected metals, etc). The Annual Groundwater
Monitoring Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of the year
following the year the samples were collected. In addition to the data normally
presented in the quarterly groundwater monitoring reports, the Annual Report shall
include the following:
1. Quarterly groundwater contour maps from the previous four quarters;
2. Graphs ofthe analytical data for all samples collected from each monitoring well for
at least five calendar years. Each such graph shall plot over time for a given ·
monitoring well the concentration of one or more waste constituents specified herein
and selected in concurrence with Regional Water Board staff. Graphs shall be
plotted at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in water quality, and shall
plot each datum, rather than plotting mean values.
3. All monitoring data obtained during the previous monitoring events for at least the
last five calendar years.
All technical reports required herein must be overseen and certified by a California registered
civil engineer, certified engineering geologist, or certified hydrogeologist in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6735, 7835,· and 7835.1.
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in
Standard Provision 8.3.
A transmittal letter shall accompany each self-monitoring report. The letter shall discuss any
violations during the reporting period and all actions taken or planned for correcting violations,
such as operation or facility modifications. If the Discharger has previously submitted a report
describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the corrective actions,
reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory.
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2007-0123
PIXLEY PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT WWTF
TULARE COUNTY -11-
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order.
. /} ~·
Ordered by: :;;;j" "'"'--'--~
~MELA c.EEDON, Executive Officer
kc/DKP/kes: 6/19/07
REVISED 08/07/08
-----·--·-------------------'2-7-:;J.oog,'
(Date)