FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
1. Location and Service Areas. The Facility is located at 5351 Sixth Street, Carpinteri a, CA
93013 in an unincorporated area of Santa Barbara County, CA. The plant site is near the
Pacific Coast.
2. Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal system to provide sewerage service to the City of Carpinteria and
portions of Santa Barbara County and Ventura County , serving a population of
approximately 17,100.
3. Wastewat er Treatment. The treatment at the Facility consists of mechanical screening
and grit removal, primary sedimentation, aerated activated sludge tanks, secondary
sedimentation, and chlorination followed by effluent discharge.
4. Biosolids Management. Biosolids are collected from the primary and secondary
clarifiers, then sent to an aerobic digester and belt press thickeners. Biosolids are
transported and composted offsite to be sold for agricultural/landscape purposes. The
Facility has a dry -weather design capacity of 2.5 MGD. The reported average annual flow
rate over the last three years is approximately 1.2 MGD.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
This facility may implement changes during the upcoming permit term. The Discharger plans to
pursue an indirect potable reuse water project that will include a multiple barrier advanced
water treatment plant, groundwater injection wells, and related infrastructure. The advance
water treatment will include reverse osmosis (RO) and advanc ed oxidation (AO). This Order
will be reopened (pursuant to Reopener Prov isions in section VI.C.1 of the Order ) prior to
production of the indirect potable reuse water and after the exact design details of the project
are known.
The Carpinteria Valley Rec ycled Water Facilities Plan was released in April 2016. Recycled
water that meets Title 22 criteria will be produced at the Carpinteria Wastewater Treatment
Plant (WWTP) possibly by the end of 2019.
(http://www.carpinteria.ca.us/PDFs/pw_Recycled%20Water%20Facilities%20FINAL%20REPO
RT2016.pdf ). The State Water Board Division of Drinking Water (DDW) will review, comment,
and accept Carpinteria Sanitary District’s Title 22 Engineering Report sometime in the future.
Water Reclamation requirements have been added to this permit to allow the Discharger to
produce recycled water after receiving DDW approval .

CARPINTERIA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R3 -2017- 0032
CARPINTERIA SANITARY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047364


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9






















III.