FACILITY INFORMATION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the southeast portion of the City of  
Roseville, other areas of Placer County, and the South Placer Municipal Utility 
District,  and serves a population of approximately 108,500. The design average dry 
weather flow  capacity of the Facility is 18.0 MGD.
The Discharger’s  2010 pond project improved and raised levees to protect the 
Facility  from rising creek levels. The project was designed to protect the Facility  from 
a 100 -year flood event. The levees are designed to maintain a 3 -foot freeboard in 
this type of event to keep Dry Creek from overtopping the levee .
The tertiary treatment  system  at the Facility  consists  of the following:
·headworks with screening  and grit removal ;
·four primary clarifiers ;
·eight  aeration basins with nitrification /denitrification ;
·six secondary clarifiers ;
·four cooling towers ;
·three  sand /anthracite  down -flow tertiary filters ;
·five UV disinfection channels ;
·one concrete lined UV backwash water pond;
·one 2 -acre concrete lined emergency storage  pond  (East Pond ; identified on the 
Flow Schematic, Appendix B -1 as Storage Pond 1 and on the Facility Site Map, 
Appendix B -2 as PND -001); and
·one 16 -acre high -density polyethylene (HDPE) lined emergency storage  pond  
(West Pond ; identified on the Flow Schematic, Appendix B -1 as Storage Pond 2  
and on the Facility Site Map, Appendix B -2 as PND -002).
Two on -site emergency storage pond s are utilized to store influent during large 
storm events to prevent overwhelming of the treatment process, to store partially 
treated wastewater, and to prevent plant upsets by the influent that would be harmful 
to the treatment process. When necessary, p lant utility  water (non-potable, non -
chlorinated, UV -treated final effluent) is used in the East Pond for wash down and to  
provide ballast water when groundwater elevation is high . All water  stored in the 
emergency storage pond s is re -routed through the p lant for treatment  in a timely 
manner reflective of best practicable control . The West Pond’s HDPE liner is 60 -mil 
thick, UV resistant, textured, and continuously welded, and is designed to be 
impermeable  providing  a hydraulic conductivity less than 1X10-6 centi meters per 
second . The West Pond includes a two-foot soil cover to prevent damage and to 
weigh the liner down. The capacity of the East Pond is approximately 5.5 million 
gallons and the capacity of the West Pond is approximately 45 million gallons. The 
two ponds are visually inspected on a daily basis  by operations staff during their 
daily rounds  for any  damage from rodents or debris, etc. Use of the Facility’s 
emergency storage pond s is part of the treatment process as described above and 
thus are  covered by the provisions in the Municipal General Order, as specified in 
this NOA. Tertiary treated wastewater may be recycled in the Discharger’s reclaimed 
water distribution system or discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Dry Creek. The 
specifi cations and use of reclaimed water is covered under a separate Master 
Reclamation Permit (Order 97 -147, Amendment 2) issued to the Discharger in 
City of Roseville   27 June  2025
Dry Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2023-0025 -008
- 4 -accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 22 and the California Water 
Code .
Solids handling facilities include :
·gravity belt thickener ;
·anaerobic sludge digesters;
·sludge holding tanks;
·belt filter press ; and
·sludge collection trailer s for collection , transport and disposal .
The Biosolids are land applied or composted by a third -party contractor under the 
contractor’s Waste Discharge Requirements .
II.