wastewater treatment and
disposal areas.
4. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No.
3, the dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone ( 1 foot) of
wastewater in ponds shall not be less than 1.0 mg/1.
5. The treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a
100-year return frequency.
6. The effluent from the treatment facility shall not exceed the
following limits:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRANK ANDRE AND ROBERT HOURET
dba SAN LUIS PARTNERSHIP
MERCED COUNTY -4-
Constituent
BOD51
Settleable Solids
Co 1 iform
Turbidity Units
mg/1
ml/1
MPN/100 ml
NTU Monthly Daily
Average Maximum
20 40
0.2 0.5
2.2 Median 23
2 5
1 Five-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
7. Treatment p 1 ant effluent sha 11 not have a pH 1 ess than 6. 5 or
greater than 8.5.
8. There shall be no standing water in the disposal area 48-hours
after wastewater is applied.
9. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos.
particular, In
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the
water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the
water surface.
10. Puhl ic contact with undisinfected wastewater sha 11 be precluded
through such means as fences, signs, and other acceptable alter­
natives.
11. Ponds sha 11 have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary
inflow and infiltration during the nonirrigation season. Design
seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation
using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in
accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall
never be less than two feet (measured vertically).
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRANK ANDRE AND ROBERT HOURET
dba SAN LUIS PARTNERSHIP
MERCED COUNTY -5-
13. Areas irrigated with reclaimed water shall be managed to prevent
breeding of mosquitos. More specifically,
a. Tail water must be returned and all applied irrigation water
must infiltrate completely within a 48-hour period.
b. Ditches not serving as wildlife habitat should be maintained
free of emergent, marginal, and floating vegetation.
c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible
to mosquitos shall not be used to store reclaimed water.
14. Reclaimed water for irrigation shall be managed to minimize
erosion, runoff, and movement of aerosols from the disposal area.
15. Direct or windblown spray shall be confined to the designated
reclamation area and prevented from contacting drinking water
facilities.
16. The Discharger may not spray irrigate effluent during periods of
precipitation and for at least 24 hours after cessation of pre­
cipitation, or when winds exceed 30 mph.
17. Signs with proper wording of sufficient size shall be placed at
areas of access and around the perimeter of a 11 areas used for
effluent di sposa 1 to a 1 ert the pub 1 i c of the use of rec 1 aimed
water.
18. Storltl'tlater runoff from the irrigation field shall not be discharged
to any surface water drainage course within 48-hours of the last
application of reclaimed water.
19. Application of reclaimed wastewater to the reclamation area shall
be at reasonable rates considering the crop, soil, climate, and
irrigation management system. The nutrient loading of the recla­
mation area, including the nutritive value of organic and chemical
fertilizers and of the reclaimed water, shall not exceed the crop
demand.
20. There shall be no irrigation or impoundment of reclaimed water
within 500 feet of any domestic water well or within 100 feet of
any irrigation well unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the Executive Officer that less distance is justified.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRANK ANDRE AND ROBERT HOURET
dba SAN LUIS PARTNERSHIP
MERCED COUNTY
C. Sludge Disposal: -6-
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes shall be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with
Chapter 15 and approved by the Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be
reported to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of
the change.
3. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance
Manual issued by the Department of Health Services titled Manual of
Good Practice for Landspreading of Sewage Sludge.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause
underlying ground water to:
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater
than