EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The CSA 44 Zone G (Linne) WINTP is owned by San Joaquin County Public Works (hereafter
"Discharger") and operated by San Joaquin County Utilities Maintenance Division. The WINTP is
located at 7580 West Bates Road in Tracy in San Joaquin County as shown on Attachment A, which
is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference. The WINTP serves 150 private
residences and does not serve any commercial or industrial facilities. The site plan is shown on
Attachment 8, which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
Domestic wastewater is collected from 150 residences. Wastewater flows by gravity to a lift station
through a bar screen into an Equalization Tank. The wastewater is then pumped into the anoxic
basin at a reduced/equalized rate to minimize hydraulic and organic loading surges through the
system. Flow through the entire activated sludge process is configured for gravity flow for
continuous operation. The Anoxic Stage provides biological nitrogen removal (BNR) to the activated
sludge system. Mixed liquor pumping brings mixed liquor solution, rich in nitrates, from the aeration
basin to the anoxic basin for denitrification. Periodically, sludge is removed from the clarifier to the
sludge tank. Once the sludge tank nears capacity, the sludge is dewatered. The free liquid is sent
back to the anoxic basin and the sludge is sent off-site for disposal.
The tertiary treatment stage uses equalized flow to process secondary effluent through filtration and
disinfection. Media filters are used to remove excess suspended matter from the secondary effluent
before the effluent is disinfected by liquid chlorine solution. The filters are periodically backwashed
and the water is returned to the equalization tank for re-processing. The effluent dosing tank is used
to pump the final effluent to the dispersal field.
The 1.7 acre dispersal field consists of a pressure dosed trench and gravel system. The plant
controls the dosing time and sequence of the dispersal zones (Zones 1 through 4). Sufficient land
for a possible 100-percent replacement of the subsurface disposal system is available. Effluent
samples are collected from the effluent tank, as shown on Attachment C. Wastewater quality and
flow rates for 2016 and 2017 are shown below.
Effluent Quality 1
(mq/L unless noted otherwise)
Total Average Daily
Nitrate Coliform Flow
pH BOD as N TKN TDS (MPN/100 ml) (gallons)
2016 7.51 3.3 2.8 1 1,344 29 32,550
2017 7.43 0 2.1 2 1,238 5 33,178
1 Average concentrations are shown.
BOD = biochemical oxygen demand
mg/L = milligrams per liter
MPN = most probable number
TKN = total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS = total dissolved solids
Five groundwater monitoring wells monitor

===PLANNED CHANGES===

