WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY

The City of Santa Maria wastewater treatment facility (Wastewater System) is a Class
IV wastewater system . City of Santa Maria must staff a Grade IV chief plant operator for
proper operation of the Was tewater System. The current chief plant operator is Russ P.
Newman , Grade IV , Operator No. 29543, Certificate No. 28863 (expires 1/18/2026) .

The Wastewater System is capable of treating 13 .5 million gallons per day (mgd) to a
secondary treatment level but is limited in disposal capacity to 8.0 mgd. The
Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment capabilities
shown in Table 2.

Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary Treatment The headworks consists of a Parsha ll flume flow meter,
three automatic bar screens followed by two aerated grit
chambers.
Headworks capacity ( mgd): 13.5
Primary Treatment Clarifiers: Primary treatment consists of two primary
clarifiers that operate in parallel. The volume of each
clarifying tank is 1.32 million gallons.
Primary treatment capacity ( mgd): 27.92
Secondary Treatment Trickling Filters: Secondary treatment is performed using
two primary and two secondary aerobic trickling filters. Each of the primary trickling filter s has a volume of
543,000 gallons. Each of t he secondary trickling filter s has
a volume of 170,000 gallons.
Secondary treatment capacity ( mgd): 17.7
Tertiary Treatment Not Applicable
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): 0
Disinfection Not Applicable
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): 0
Wastewater Disposal
Method Percolation Ponds, 123 acres
Disposal capacity ( mgd): 8.0
Biosolids/Sludge Production and Handling Gravity Thickeners (2), Anaerobic Digestors (4), and
Sludge Drying Bed s, Offsite Composting , and Landfilling
Annual production of biosolids: 1,811 tons
The final destination of biosolids produced is hauled off to
Engel and Gray Composting, Inc. located at 468- 594 Ray
Road, Santa Maria, California, and the City of Santa Maria
Landfill, 2065 E. Main Street, Santa Maria, California
Non-Potable Recycled
Water Non-potable recycled
water produced onsite: Not Applicable
Recycled water usage areas: Not Applicable
City of Santa Maria - 3 - June 16, 202 3
City of Santa Maria Wastewater Treatment Plant
Enrolled in WQ 2016 -
0068 -DDW: Not Applicable
Recycled water production
volume (gpd): Not Applicable

A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3, which were reported in City of Santa Maria quarterly monitoring reports. The Central
Coast Water Board used reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

