FACILITY DESCRIPTION 
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls  
The Facility provides municipal wastewater treatment and disposal for the cities of Gilroy and 
Morgan Hill. The Facility consists of a secondary treatment plant with a headworks, pre -anoxic 
basins, oxidation ditches, and secondary clarifiers and a tertiary treatment plant with 
anthracite media filters,  chlorine disinfection, and dechlorination.  An ultraviolet (UV) light 
disinfection system has been installed and approved for use by the Division of Drinking Water.  
The secondary treatment facilities are rated to treat an average dry weather flow of 8.5 MGD and the tertiary treatment facilities have a firm capacity of 9.0 MGD. The UV disinfection 
system is currently limited to 8 MGD.  
Secondary effluent  is disposed of in a system of 37 percolation ponds  with a combined area of 
395 acres. The percolation ponds have an estimated average disposal capacity of 11 MGD. 
The pond system is typically run in irrigation mode, where the goals are to minimize water in 
storage, to maximize percolative and evaporative area. Effluent is typically applied so that the 
water infiltrates within 12 days of application and soil is rested for at least 2 days before 
reapplication. Effluent is typically applied to each pond in a layer of between 6 to 12 inches 
deep, with a maximum of 18 inches. Ponds must be disked or plowed annually during the dry 
season to break up accumulated soils and keep the soils aerated. Pond storage capacity is 
approximately 320 million gallons.  
Tertia ry treated Title 22 recycled water from the Facility is distributed for beneficial reuse. 
Demand for reclaimed water averages between 2 and 3  MGD, with higher usage in the 
summer months. Disinfected tertiary treated effluent may be discharged to the Pajaro River 
under emergency wet weather.  
Biosolids are dewatered using belt presses. Dewatered biosolids are transported by Synagro 
for beneficial reuse in Dos Palos. Grit and screenings are disposed of at the Monterey 
Regional Waste Management District landfil l in Marina . 
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters  
Secondary treated effluent is distributed at Discharge Point No. 001 (36°  58 50” N; 121 ° 32’ 
00” W) for land application to 37 percolation ponds adjacent to Llagas Creek. Tertiary treated effluent may be discharged under emergency wet weather conditions to Pajaro River, a water 
of the U.S., via Discharge Point No. 002 (36°  57 00” N; 121°  30’ 43” W) . 
  
 
SOUTH COUNTY REGIONAL WASTEWATER  ORDER NO. R3 -2017- 0028  
TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY  NPDES NO. CA0049964  
 
ATTACHMENT F –  FACT  SHEET  F-29 
     
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
         
     
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
C. Summary of Existing Requirements and Self -Monitoring Report (SMR) Data  
Effluent limitations  contained in the existing Order for discharges from Discharge Point No. 
002 (Monitoring Location EFF- 002) are summarized below. No discharges occurred during 
the permit term, thus representative monitoring data is not available.  
Table F-2. Historic Efflue nt Limitations and Monitoring Data  
Parameter  Units  Effluent Limitations  
Average Monthly  Average Weekly  Maximum Daily  
Flow  MGD  --- --- 9.0 
Biochemical Oxygen 
Demand 5- day @ 20°C 
(BOD 5) mg/L  10 --- 20 
Total Suspended Solids 
(TSS)  mg/L  10 --- 20 
Nitrate (as N)  mg/L  5 --- 10 
Un-ionized Ammonia (as N)  mg/L  0.025  --- 0.050  
pH standard units  6.5 – 8.3 at all times  
Total Dissolved Solids 
(TDS)  mg/L  1,000  --- --- 
Sodium  mg/L  200 --- --- 
Chloride  mg/L  250 --- --- 
Sulfate  mg/L  250 --- --- 
Boron  mg/L  1.0 --- --- 
Chlorine, Total Residual  mg/L  --- --- [1] 
Copper, Total Recoverable  μg/L 20 --- 42 
Lead, Total Recoverable  μg/L 2.1 --- 4.2 
Chlorodibromomethane  μg/L 0.40 --- 0.80 
[1] Chlorine concentrations shall at no time exceed detect ion levels  as determined  by amperometric 
titration or another equally sensitive method.  
 
1. Percent Removal:  The average monthly percent removal of BOD 5 and TSS shall not be 
less than 85 percent.  
2. Turbidity  
a. Daily average turbidity shall be less than or equal to 2 NTU.  
b. Turbidity shall be less than 10 NTU at all times.  
c. Turbidity shall not exceed 5 NTU for more than 5 percent off the time.  
3. Total Coliform Bacteria  
a. The 7 -day median concentration shall be less than 2.2 organisms/100 mL.  
b. Coliform concentrations shall not exceed 23 organisms/100 mL in more than one 
sample in any 30- day period.  
c. Coliform concentrations shall be less than 240 organisms/100 mL at all times.  
D. Compliance Summary  
No discharges to the Pajaro River occurred over the previous permit term , and no effluent or 
receiving water exceedances have been identified.  
 
SOUTH COUNTY REGIONAL WASTEWATER  ORDER NO. R3 -2017- 0028  
TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY  NPDES NO. CA0049964  
 
ATTACHMENT F –  FACT  SHEET  F-30 
     
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
         
     
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
On March 17 -18, 2014, the Central Coast Water Board, with assistance from an USEPA 
contractor, conducted a pretreatment audit of the Discharger’s pretreatment program. The 
audit found that members of Cit y staff appear to have a good general grasp of the general 
pretreatment requirements. The pretreatment compliance audit, however, revealed several deficiencies with the Authority’s revised sewer use ordinance (SUO). The revised SUO does 
not contain definit ions or the definitions were incorrect for best management practices 
(BMPs), control authority, new source, significant noncompliance (SNC), slug load or slug 
discharge, and trace. In addition, the revised SUO does not adequately prohibit all federally 
specified prohibitions and the local limits section contains confusing and inconsistent limits for 
total identified chlorinate hydrocarbons and toxic organic compounds. Furthermore, the 
revised SUO does not provide adequate legal authority to control discharges to the treatment 
system, to require all federal reporting and notification requirements, to copy a user’s records, 
and to immediately halt or prevent any discharge to the Facility. The revised SUO also 
establishes inappropriate analytical methods approv al abilities for the Discharger’s Program 
Administrator. Finally, the Discharger ’s enforcement response plan (ERP) contains additional 
flow diagrams that might not be necessary and could cause confusion.  
The audit revealed several deficiencies with the Discharger ’s program implementation 
procedures. The Authority failed:  
• to identify all users that are subject to categorical pretreatment standards;  
• to comply with its established procedures for reissuing permits and requiring permit 
applications;  
• to conduc t compliance inspections at its established frequency;  
• to comply with pH holding times;  
• to adequately review all received reports and notification; and  
• to publish industrial users in SNC.  
On October 8, 2014, the Central Coast Water Board transmitted the audit report to the 
Discharger, requiring a response in the Discharger’s annual report due January 30, 2015. In 
the report,  the Discharger reported that all issues identified in the inspection report have been 
addressed.  
E.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes  
SCRWA ’s flow projecti on studies to track influent flow trends and ensure treatment capacity 
predict that  current permitted plant capacity will be exceeded between 2021 and 2025.  
SCRWA is therefore planning a treatment plant expansion for completion by 2024 to keep pace with permitted development and planned population growth.  
The planned expansion project will consist of a parallel treatment system utilizing membrane 
bioreactor (MBR) technology and a phased implementation approach. The MBR process train 
will be constructed in parallel with the two existing oxidation ditches. The new process train 
will be designed to treat wastewater to meet the quality requirements for percolation pond 
disposal, river discharge, and Title 22 compliant tertiary disinfected effluent for recycled water 
use. In order to meet these quality requirements, the biological process will be designed for 
BOD removal, nitrification and denitrification.  
The new MBR treatment system will consist of headworks improvements, bioreactor and 
membrane tanks, blowers  and electrical equipment, chemical facilities, and solids handling 
 
SOUTH COUNTY REGIONAL WASTEWATER  ORDER NO. R3 -2017- 0028  
TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION FACILITY  NPDES NO. CA0049964  
 
ATTACHMENT F –  FACT  SHEET  F-31 
     
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
         
     
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
screw presses. The headworks improvements will be installed downstream of the existing 
headworks to split the flow between the existing oxidation ditches and the MBR process train 
and to provide fine screening to protect the membranes. Following screening, two parallel 
series of bioreactor tanks will provide BOD and nitrogen removal by oxidation, nitrification, and denitrification in a series of un- aerated and aerated zones with internal recycle. Mixed 
liquor will then flow to two parallel series of membrane tanks, where hollow -fiber membranes 
will be used to separate suspended solids from the treated liquid. Aeration air blowers will be installed in a new building along with supporting elec trical equipment. Chemical storage tanks 
and metering equipment will be provided to feed hypochlorous acid and citric acid for periodic membrane cleaning operations. A new solids -handling building will be constructed to house 
screw presses to dewater the biological solids produced by the MBR process train. The MBR 
process train will discharge either to the percolation ponds or to the existing parallel UV and 
chlorination disinfection systems ahead of the recycled water system and the river discharge.  
The D ischarger is performing additional studies on the UV disinfection system and is planning 
to request an increased UV disinfection system flow limit from 8 MGD to 9 MGD.  
III.