FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The treatment plants are located at the San
Francisco International Airport. The Sanitary Plant includes a collection system
and treats sanitary wastewater from airplanes and airport facilities, including
terminal restrooms, hangars, restaurants, and shops. The Industrial Plant
includes a separate collection system and treats industrial wastewater from
maintenance shops and vehicle washing, as well as first -flush stormwater runoff
from industrial areas. Process drains in th e wastewater treatment plant area
route to the Sanitary Plant, which may collect stormwater, overflow industrial
wastewater from the equalization tank, and other incidental process
wastewater. Additionally, secondary -treated industrial effluent may be rout ed to
the Sanitary Plant’s chlorine contact channel to allow maintenance of the
Industrial Plant’s chlorine disinfection system. In emergency situations, the
Discharger may use either plant to store or treat flows, spills, or overflows that
would normally flow to the other plant to ensure that all wastewater is
adequately treated; however, this Order does not authorize untreated or
partially -treated sanitary wastewater to be routed to the Industrial Plant. The
service population for these treatment plants i s estimated to be about 7,000.
During the previous order term, the Sanitary Plant treated an average daily flow
of 0.58 MGD, with the highest reported average daily flow being 1.4 MGD, while
the Industrial Plant treated an average daily flow of 0.42 MGD, w ith the highest
reported average daily flow being 1.3 MGD .
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant s.
City and County of San Francisco Airport Commission and NBSU Order R2 -2025-0002
San Francisco International Airport, Mel L eong Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 38318
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-62.1.2. Collection System. Sanitary wastewaters from airport facilities are collected
and conveyed to the Sanitary Plant through a sanitary collection system
consisting of approximately 31 miles of sewer piping, 8 lift stations, and
20 pump stations. Industrial wastewaters from airport facilities are collected in a
separate industrial collection system consisting of approximately 12 miles of
piping and 20 pump stations directing wastewater to a force main leading to the
Industrial Plant, possibly using the four detention basins described below for
equalization .
The first flush of stormwater runoff from terminals, taxiways, tarmacs, and
aircraft and vehicle parking is collected in the stormwater collection system,
which consists of approximately 91 miles of piping and 19 pump stations, and
then routed to one of four detention basins: the North Field Detention Basin
(0.25 MG), the South Field Detention Basin (1.5 MG), the West Field Detention
Basin (6.1 MG), and the East Field Detention Basin (0.5 MG). All water entering
these basins is pumped to the Industrial Pla nt for treatment. When the basins
are full, the excess runoff is discharged directly to San Francisco Bay through
one of nine stormwater outfalls.
Runoff f rom a few active airport areas is not collected in basins but is either
pumped to the Industrial Plant or discharged directly to San Francisco Bay
through the stormwater collection system. In general, runoff from runways and
some portions of taxi ways is discharged directly to San Francisco Bay after
flowing through grassy runway medians. The Discharger routinely removes
rubber and possible contaminants on runways that may be left after plane
landings. Deicing fluids, used to defrost planes, could be used a t any gate
depending on the destination of the departing aircraft but, in practice, are
infrequently used. To prevent deicing fluid from entering the storm drain system,
the Discharger requires that adjacent storm drains be covered prior to the start
of de icing operations and that a vacuum scrubber be used to remove any
residual fluid left on the pavement for treatment at the Industrial Plant .
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The Sanitary Plant treatment operations consist of
punched plate screens, grit removal, flow equalization, biological treatment
using sequencing batch reactors, effluent flow equalization, and chlorination.
Solids from the sanitary wastewater treatment process are thickened by gravity
belt thickeners, treated with anaerobic digestion, and primarily dewatered with
centrifuges before being hauled offsite for reuse. The facility also has a belt
filter press and drying beds that can be used for additional dewatering when
centrifuges are unavailable . Over the previous permit term, the sanitary
treatment plants headworks was replaced. The D ischa rger upgraded
odor/hy drogen sulfide removal, screening, grit removal, the digester gas
system, dewatering equipment, and electrical distribution.
During the previous order, t he Discharger completed upgrades to its industrial
treatment operations and decommissioned old units on February 12, 2020. The
Industrial Plant treatment operations consist of flow equalization, flocculation,
City and County of San Francisco Airport Commission and NBSU Order R2 -2025-0002
San Francisco International Airport, Mel L eong Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 38318
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-7dissolved air flotation, pH adjustment (as needed), ozone, BAF (Biologically
Active Filtration), and chlorination. In addition to the flow equalization tank at the
start of the industrial wastewater treatment process, the Discharger may use
the four detention basins described in Fact Sheet section 2.1.2 , above, to store
industrial wastewater and stormwater, thereby providing a steady flow to the
Industrial Plant for recycled water production. The Discharger primarily uses the
West Field Basin for this purpo se because it has the largest capacity. After
equalization, the Discharger adds coagulants and polymers to flocculate the
combined industrial wastewater and any incoming first flush of stormwater.
Solids from the industrial wastewater treatment process are collected from the
dissolved air flotation unit and dewatered with a centrifuge or drying beds
before being hauled offsite for disposal . The c hlorinated effluent from both
plants is combined at a pumping station and discharged to the NBSU pipeline,
which transports treated wastewater to the South San Francisco and San Bruno
Water Quality Control Plant for dechlorination using sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge to Lower San Francisco Bay from Discharge Point 002. All treatment
steps are shown in the proces s flow diagrams in Attachment C .
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The dewatering and disposal of biosolids
from the Sanitary Plant and Industrial Plant are separate. Biosolids from the
Sanitary Plant are treated by gravity belt thickening and anaerobic digestion,
then dewatered with centrifuges or air-dried using sludge drying beds. Final
sludge cake and air -dried sludge is transported to a composting facility. Sludge
and scum from the Industrial Plant are pumped to separate sludge beds or
centrifuges for dewatering. The dried indus trial waste sludge is trucked offsite
and used as daily cover at a landfill.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. This Order covers stormwater discharges from
certain areas of the airport. Stormwater from tarmac areas in excess of the
available storage capacity in the detention basins is discharged directly to San
Francisco Bay. Several airport areas are occupied by tenants, and all tenants
are prohibited by the airport’s rules and regulations from generating any
unauthorized discharges to the st ormwater runoff collection system. Stormwater
from most of these tenant -occupied areas is covered under this Order;
however, stormwater from a portion of the area occupied by the United
Maintenance Operation Center flows directly to San Francisco Bay. United
Airlines enrolls its stormwater discharges under the statewide industrial
stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) an d thus is
not covered by this Orde r.
In addition to providing flow equalization for industrial wastewater influent, the
airport’s four detention basins store the first flush of rainfall runoff generated at
sections of the airport where industrial activities take place. Once these basins
are filled, the i nflow gates are closed , and each basin is isolated from the
stormwater conveyance pipelines. Any additional runoff is discharged directly
from the storm drain system to San Francisco Bay. The runoff stored in the
detention basins is pumped to the Industrial Plant for treatment .
City and County of San Francisco Airport Commission and NBSU Order R2 -2025-0002
San Francisco International Airport, Mel L eong Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 38318
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-8The statewide construction stormwater NPDES permit (NPDES General Permit
CAS000002 ) covers stormwater discharges associated with construction
activit ies taking place west of Highway 101.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities . The Discharger divert s a portion of the chlorinated
effluent from the treatment plants from the combined pumping station or a
portion of the chlorinated effluent from the Industrial Plant’s chlorine contact
channel through anthracite filters for use as recycled water. The Discharger has
recycled an average of 0.14 million gallons each year for uses such as
landscape irrigation, street sweeping, and soil compaction. Recycled water is
stored in an approximately 7,000 -gallon storage tank, and unused recycled
water is discharged to the NBSU pipeline .
2.2. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete several projects during this permit term. These
changes are authorized by Provision 6.3.5.3.
Over the next permit term, the Discharger will add an aerobic granular sludge
process to its sequen cing batch reactors at the Sanitary Plant . The Discharger
completed a pilot study from October 2020 through April 2021 evaluating the
effectiveness of the aerobic granular sludge technology and found that the process
will enhance nitrification, denitrification, and biological phosphorus uptake.
The Discharger also plans to begin construction in 2024 on an Advanced Water
Treatment Plant that will include membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and UV
disinfection to treat combined effluent from the Industrial and Sanitary Plants and
provide an average of 1.0 MGD of recycled water for use within the San Francisco
Airport for toilet flushing, irrigation, cooling water, industrial water, vehicle washing,
and dust control . Additionally , the Discharger plans to test PFAS removal by
treating combined effluent from the Industrial and Sanitary Plants with granular
City and County of San Francisco Airport Commission and NBSU Order R2 -2025-0002
San Francisco International Airport, Mel L eong Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 38318
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-15activated carbon and, if necessary, ion exchange resins . Finally, t he Discharger
plans to begin construction on a new pipeline to the NBSU outfall during the permit
term.
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The Discharger’s Shoreline Protection Program is expected to protect the facility
against a 100 -year storm as defined by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) . The Discharger plans to install concrete -capped steel sheet pile
walls and steel king pile walls along the shoreline and concrete walls adjacent to
the San Bruno and Millbrae Canals. The plan account s for 42 inches of sea level
rise and include s 2 feet of freeboard above the 100 -year still water level as FEMA
requires , for a combined total o f 5.5 feet of protection. The Shoreline Protection
Program would manage flood risk until 2085. The Discharger has received funding
for the program , initiated detailed designs , and projects that construction will begin
in 2025.
3.