existing facility. The project's discharge to the
disposal area will not cause significant impacts on ground water and surface waters, or
depletion of limited ground water resources. The discharge allows wastewater utility
service necessary for the protection of the public and economic expansion in the area, and
is considered to be a benefit to the people of the State.
18. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their wr;itten views and
recommendations. )
19. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Fresno County Service Area No. 3 lB, its agents, successors,
and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code
and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
· 3. Discharge of collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes to uncovered surface impoundments, ponds, and sludge drying beds from 1
November and 30 May of each year is prohibited .
. 4. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' or 'designated', as defined in Sections
252l(a) and 2522(a) of Title 23, California Code of Regulations, Section 2510, et
seq., (hereafter Chapter 15), is prohibited.
~\
)
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREAJ1B WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
B. Discharge Specifications: \
i
-4-
1. The monthly average dry weather discharge shall not exceed 0.230 mgd.
2. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the
limits of the wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. B.2, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not
be less than 1.0 mg/1.
4. The effluent from the treatment facility shall not exceed the following limits:
Monthly Daily
Constituent Units Average Maximum
B0D51 mg/1 40 80
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml 23 240
Settleable Solids ml/1 0.2 0.5
1 5-day, 20 ° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
5. Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.5
6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular:
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are
not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. _Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. Public contact with wastewater in the treatment and disposal areas shall be precluded
.through such means as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA 31B WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY \
)
J
-5-
8. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowablewastewaterflow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100
years, distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard
shall never be less than two feet (measured vertically).
9. · On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification No. B.8:
C. Sludge Disposal Specifications:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
removed from the sludge drying beds on or before 1 November of each year and
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15 and approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal and state laws
and regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards included
in 40 CFR 503.
If the State Water Resources Control Board and the regional water quality control
boards accept primacy to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR 503, this Order
may be reopened to· incorporate appropriate time schedules and technical standards.
The Discharger must comply with the standards and time schedules contained in 40
CFR 503 whether or not they have been incorporated into this Order.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying ground water
to contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background water
quality.
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 95-263,
which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive
Officer.
·.WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FRESNO COUNTY SERVICE AREA 31B WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY -6-
2. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste.Discharge Requirements," dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
3. The Discharger shall comply with all the terms and conditions of this Order shall be
achieved according to the following time schedule:
a. By 10 January 1996, the Discharger shall submit a work plan to develop a
comprehensive ground water monitoring network to monitor the effects of the
discharge on ground water quality, determine ground water gradient and
direction of flow of ground water within the influence of the discharge. The
proposed network shall include, but not be limited to: (1) a proposed new
background well, (2) a map showing the location of existing and proposed
wells, and (3) the construction features of the wells. The report shall contain a
time schedule for implementation by 15 March 1996.
b. By 15 September 1996, the Discharger shall submit a technical report
consisting of plans and specifications for compliance with