Facility
The Silve r Oak Cellars - Alexander Valley w inery is owned and operated by Silver Oak
Cellars and is located in Geyserville, Sonoma County. The winery is not located in an area served by a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic and process
wastewater is collected and treated on- site. The site location is shown on Attachment A,
which is attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.

The Silver Oak Cellars - Alexander Valley winery facility (Facility) is located on a 115 -acre
parcel (APN No. 131 -200- 020) and consists of: a production and administration building; a
storage building; a wine tasting building; a marketing accommodations (MA) three
bedroom residence; associated utilities and infrastructure; and vineyards . The winery is
currently permitted with a maximum annual wine production capacity of 120,000 cases , as
authorized by Sonoma County Use Permit PLP14 -0004.
 Two separate wastewater treatment systems will serve the Facility . Domestic wastewater
originating from facility restrooms, laboratories, the tasting room, and the MA residence
will be treated and disposed of via the domestic wastewater treatment system . The
domestic wastewater system will consist of a gravity collection system, two septic tanks,
one kitchen grease interceptor, an Orenco Advan tex AX -MAX125 aerobic biological f ilter
unit (with recirculation and dosing tanks built- in), an ultra- violet ( UV) light disinfection
system , and a subsurface drip disposal field . Following pretreatment and disinfection, the
treated domestic wastewater will be disposed of through a subsurface drip disposal field.

The Facilities winery p rocess wastewater will be treated via a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR)
package wastewater treatment system for reuse as vineyard irrigation water or no n-
potable process reuse water. The process wastewater discharge will need to be authorized
under General Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) for wine, beverage and food processor waste , under Conditional Waiver o f WDR for wine, beverage and food processor
waste discharges, or under an individual order . This notice of applicability of the General
Waste Discharge Requirements for Small Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems, Order WQ 2014- 0153- DWQ (General Order) is applicable to the domestic wastewater system and
not the winery process wastewater system.

Discharge Description
The domestic wastewater treatment system is designed for a peak daily flow of 4,025 gallons per day (gpd) . Peak daily flow conditions are predicted to take pl ace during crush
when the maximum number of employees are present, the tasting room attendance i s at a
Silver Oak Cellars Alexander Valley - 3 - May 1 6, 201 6


peak, and a 200 guest special event i s taking place. The average daily wastewater flow is
projected to be 1,575 gpd during non- crush periods . As described in the ROWD, the
projected untreated and treated domestic wastewater quality from the F acility is
consistent with the characterization of wastewater in the General Order.

The overall plan layout of the wastewater collection system is included in the Sanitary
Sewage Management System Improvements design plans and the Design Calculations report ,
for Silver Oak Cellars , prepared by Summit Engineering Inc. , and dated July 15, 2014, and
May 8, 2015, respectively . These plans and report ar e made part of this NOA by reference.
 Primary Treatment and Collection System
Primary domestic waste treatment and collection will be provided using a standard gravity
collection system, kitchen grease interceptor and septic tanks, as described below.
 A 1,500 -gallon precast concrete septic tank with effluent filter will serve the MA residence.
The septic tank is designed to provide a 3 -day detention time for solids removal prior to
effluent entering the larger winery septic tank. A 13,000- gallon fiberglas s septic tank with
effluent filter will serve the entire F acility. The 13,000 -gallon septic tank is designed to
provide a 3 -day detention time for solids removal and to act as a sump prior to transferring
effluent to the Advantex pretreatment system. The 1 3,000 gallon septic tank will be
equipped with duplex pumps and float switches that will be controlled and monitored by an adjacent pump control panel with visual and audible alarm.

The tasting room and hospitality building will be served by a 1,500 -gallon kitchen grease
interceptor , designed for a maximum flow of 500 gpd and a 3 -day retention time. The
precast concrete grease interceptor is intended to remove oil and grease from the kitchen wastewater prior to entering the septic tank.
 Secondary Wastewat er Treatment System
A wastewater treatment system, consisting of a n Advantex recirculating aerobic biological
filter system, will be installed to provide secondary level treatment for the domestic
wastewater flow . The treatment system consists of one filter unit, a recirculation tank,
dosing tank, piping, pumps , and controls. The filter unit, also referred to as a treatment pod ,
is a manu facturer - supplied modular unit consisting of a fiberglass tank containing textile
filtratio n media, a pressurized influent distribution pipe network, and an underdrain to
collect treated wastewater. The secondary level treatment is designed to reduce the
organic strength and solids content of the domestic wastewater prior to disposal to the
subsurface drip disposal fi eld. The treatment system will be equipped with a pump control
panel with remote telemetry that will control and monitor the pumps associated with the treatment system and the subsurface drip disposal fiel d. A central remote alarm panel will
be located near the winery processing area.
 Wastewater Discharge System
Following secondary level treatment, effluent will be disinfected and disposed of at a
subsurface drip disposal field. A flow meter will measure the volume of effluent being sent
to the disposal field. A UV disinfection basin outfitted with a UV unit rated for 83 gallons
per minute (gpm) will provide disinfectio n prior to subsurface disposal. The UV system
Silver Oak Cellars Alexander Valley - 4 - May 1 6, 201 6


manufacturers cited water quality recommendation of a maximum concentration of 10
mg/ L suspended solids prior to UV light exposure.

A subsurface drip disposal field will be located in a vineyard on the north end of the parcel near Sausal Creek. The disposal field is designed to dispose of 4,025 gpd of effluent with an application rate of 1 .2 gallons/square foot/day. The field will consist of eighteen 100 -foot
sections of Geoflow drip lines, spaced two feet apart, at a depth of 12 -18 inches below
ground surface. A 200% reserve disposal field area has been identified in the same area, directl y adjacent to the subsurface disposal field.

The disposal field , reserve area, and treatment system components meet the set back
requirements in the General Order .

General WDR Order Coverage
Commencing on the date of this NOA, waste discharges from the F acility ’s domestic
wastewater treatment system are regulated under the General Order (Order WQ 2014 -
0153- DWQ).

2. California Environmental Quality Act
 On October 9 , 2014 , the Sonoma County Board of Zoning Adjustments approved a Negative
Declaration under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for the
construction/expansion of Silver Oak Cellars – Alexander Valley winery and the subject
domestic wastewater system (State Clearing House #20 14082047) . No water quality
related mitigation measures were included as a condition of project approval.
 3. Site -Specific Requirements and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

