FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The District's wastewater treatment system currently serves a population of approximately
38,000 from the cities of Arroyo Grande and Grover Beach and the Oceano Community
Services District. Residential, commercial, and industrial wastewater is conveyed to the South
San Luis Obispo County Sanitation District wastewater treatment facility, which has a design
dry weather treatment capacity of 5. 0 MGD (monthly average flow) and a peak wet weather
treatment capacity of 9.0 MGD.
Wastewater is mechanically screened and pumped to two identical primary clarifiers - one
constructed in 1965 and the other in 1990. Each primary clarifier is 55 feet in dia meter with a
side wall depth of 9 feet, thereby providing a combined volume of 320,625 gallons. At
average flow rates, the combined overflow rate from the clarifiers is 610 gallons per day per
square foot (GP D/SF) with a detention time of 2.65 hours.
Seco ndary treatment is achieved via a single fixed film reactor which was constructed in
1986. The reactor is 117 feet in diameter with a plastic media depth of 12 feet. In the late
1990s, the District determined that proliferation of snails and fi lter flies w ithin the media was
causing a significant decline in reactor performance. This situation has been addressed by
altering (slowing) the speed of the wastewater distribution arm above the reactor media as
needed. The change in distribution of wastewater causes a slight flushing effect. Two to three
times per year, pH of wastewater entering the reactor is also elevated, causing some direct
toxicity to snails and filter flies and their larval stages and causing an increase in ammonia
present in the more toxic unionized form. pH is subsequently lowered using citric acid
following the reactor.
The secondary clarifier, which follows the fixed film reactor in the treatment scheme, was
constructed in 1986 and is 97 feet in diameter with a side wall depth of 12 feet, thereby
providing a total volume of 665,000 gallons. At average flows, the overflow rate from the
clarifier is approximately 393 GP D/SF with a detention time of 5.5 hours. Secondary treated
wastewater is chlorinated within a chlorine contact chamber and subsequently dechlorinated
prior to discharge through the ocean outfall line, which is a joint outfall also accommodating
discharges from the municipal wastewater treatment plant of the City of Pismo Beach. The
combined discharge occurs approximately 4,400 f eet offshore at a depth of 55 feet. The

SOUTH SAN LUIS OBISPO COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3 -2019- 0002
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0048003


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5 wastewater treatment plant accepts small volumes of brines, which are introduced to the plant
outfall following chlorination/dechlorination steps. In 2008, the Facility accepted approximately
325,000 gallons of water softener regenerant brine waste from one hauler. Sludge/biosolids
are anaerobically digested, dewatered via a centrifuge and/or drying beds, and hauled offsite
to a composting facility. The Facility’s one centrifuge was installed in September 2011.
B. Discharge Points and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger has a planned project to address the lack of redundancy in its secondary
treatment processes. Currently, the existing treatment plant cannot meet effluent limits at the
permitted design flow if the fixed film reactor or secondary clarifier s are out of service because
there is no backup, or redundant, system for either process. To address this issue, previous Order
No. R3-2009 -0046 anticipated the addition of redundancy infrastructure to be installed so that
critical components can be removed from service for routine maintenance or repairs or be shut
down in case of mechanical failure or emergency, without risking violation of effluent permit limits.
The addition of redundancy infrastructure does not add capacity to handle higher flows than
currently permitted, and no additional treatment capacity is intended to be pursued by the District
based on current plans and policies adopted by the member agencies and within the service area.
The Discharger obtained a conditional Coastal Development Permit (CDP) for these Facility
improv ements on May 10, 2017. On September 17, 2018, the Discharger completed 60%
engineering design plans for the project. The Discharger is analyzing the updated project costs,
working on finalizing project design, and complying with the CDP. The projected construction start
is fall 2019 with completion estimated to be May 2022.

The California Coastal Commission’s senior coastal engineer and sea level rise team concluded,
as part of the CDP process, that the Facility is already impacted by flooding and that flooding
impacts to the Facility are likely to become even more frequent in the future at this location.
Based on that finding, the Commission approved a limited 30 -year temporary authorization for the

SOUTH SAN LUIS OBISPO COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3 -2019- 0002
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0048003


ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-12 Facility location, with two 10- year reev aluation requirements. To better understand flooding and
sea level rise impacts over time and to inform the 10- year reevaluations as part of the 30 -year
authorization, the Discharger was required to submit a Coastal Hazards Monitoring Plan by
November 10, 2017. The Discharger initiated that process with contractor Environmental Science
Associates in June 2017. However, the Discharger had staff changes at critical positions (Chief
Plant Operator and District Administrator) during the same time and failed to complete the
required submittal. The Discharger is aware of the oversight and working to complete the
submittal by mid- November 2018.

The city of Pismo Beach began pursuing a project, called Central Coast Blue, to recycle treated
wastewater to meet the requirements for indirect potable reuse. This recycled water would be
injected into portions of t he basin to provide for both continued pumping of groundwater and
protection from saltwater intrusion into local supply wells. Pismo Beach and the Discharger are
working cooperatively to complete preliminary engineering for the project’s design parameters and
feasibility. Currently, the Facility is envisioned to be the future location for the advanced
wastewater treatment processes related to the project. Central Coast Blue has received a
planning study grant and Pismo Beach has applied for additional grant funding through
Proposition 1.

III. APPLI CABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities described
in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California Water
Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued pursuant to section 402 of
the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and implementing regulations adopted by the USEPA and
chapter 5.5, division 7 of the Water Code (commencing with section 13370). It shall serve as
an NPDES permit authorizing the Discharger to discharge into waters of the United States at
the discharge location described in Table 2 subject to the WDRs in this Order .
B. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Under Water Code section 13389, this action to adopt an NPDES permit is exempt from the
provisions of Chapter 3 of CEQA, (commencing with section 21100) of Division 13 of the
Public Resources Code.
C. State and Federal Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Plans
1. Water Quality Control Plan. The Central Coast Water Board adopted a Water Quality
Control Plan for the Central Coast Basin (hereinafter Basin Plan) on September 27, 2017
that designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains
implementation programs and policies to achieve those objectives for the Pacific Ocean
and other