wastewater treatment and disposal system is currently regulated under the individual
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) 98-036. The WDR was adopted on 27 February 1998 and is due
for an update.

Scott Perkins /Dan Hoffman - 2 - 24 August 2017
PG&E/ Southshore HOA

FACILITY AND DESCRIPTION
Southshore HOA owns and operates the Bucks Lake Sewer Facility which lies on land owned by PG&E
in Sections 3, T23N, R7E, MDB&M with surface flow to Bucks Lake as shown on Attachment A .
Southshore HOA has been established as the entity responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the wastewater treatment system for the Bucks Lake Sewer Facility . The system consists of a
pressurized central collection line, discharging to a common dosing tank and community leachfield. The
central collection line is pressurized via individual homeowner septic tanks each with its own submersible
waste pump.
This is an existing facility; therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 14, section
15301 which applies to ongoing or existing projects.

FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with the terms and
conditions of this NOA and the General Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5239, with all att achments.

The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the discharger shall comply with the setbacks as
described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements form Table 3, for which the
Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
Site Specific Applicable Setback Requirements
Equipment or Activity Domestic
Well Flowing
Stream a Ephemeral
Stream
Drainage b Property
Line Lake or
Reservoir d
Septic Tank, Aerobic
Treatment Unit,
Treatment System,
or Collection System e
150 ft. y
50 ft. C
50 ft.
5 ft. c, z
200 ft. w
Leach Field f 100 ft. o, c 100 ft. c 50 ft. 5 ft. c 200 ft. w
N/A denotes Not Applicable, as the defined feature is not found within the general area of the facility.
a A flowing stream shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark established by fluctuations of water
elevation and indicated by characteristics such as shelving, changes in soil character, vegetation type,
presence of litter or debris, or other appro priate means.
b Ephemeral Stream Drainage denotes a surface water drainage feature that flows only after rain or snow -
melt and does not have sufficient groundwater seepage (baseflow) to maintain a condition of flowing surface
water. The drainage shall be measured from a line that defines the limit of the ordinary high water mark
(described in “a” above). Irrigation canals are not considered ephemeral streams drainage features. The
ephemeral stream shall be a “losing stream” (discharging surface water to gr oundwater) at the proposed
wastewater system site.
c Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K -1.
d Lake or reservoir boundary measured from the high water line.
e Septic Tank, Aerobic Treatment Unit, Treatment System, or Collection System a ddresses equipment located
below ground or that impedes leak detection by routine visual inspection.
f Leach Field includes all subsurface dispersal systems, including mound systems except seepage pits.
o California Well Standards, part II, section 8. Site -specific conditions may allow reduced setback or require an
increased setback. See discussion in Well Standards.
w Setback established by the Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Policy, section 7.5.5.
y Setback established by Onsite Wastewater Treatment Sy stem Policy, section 7.5.6.
z Collection system to property line setback is not applicable.
Scott Perkins /Dan Hoffman - 3 - 24 August 2017
PG&E/ Southshore HOA

Failure to comply with the requirements in the documents could result in an enforcement action as
authorized by provisions of the California Water Code. Discharge of wastes other than those descr ibed in
this NOA is prohibited. If the method of waste disposal changes from that described in this NOA, you
must submit a new Report of Waste Discharge describing the new operation.

The required annual fee specified in the annual billing from the State Water Board shall be paid until thi s
NOA is officially terminated. You must notify this office in writing if the discharge regulated by the
General Order ceases, so that we may terminate coverage and avoid unnecessary billing .

The Central Valley Water Board has gone to a Paperless Office System. All regulatory documents,
MRPs, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and correspondence should be converted to a
searchable Portable Docu ment Format (PDF) and submitted electronically. Documents that are less than
50MB should be emailed to:

centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov .

Documents that are 50MB or larger should be transferred to a disk and maile d to the appropriate regional
water board office, in this case 364 Knollcrest Drive, Suite 205, Redding, CA 96002.

To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the following information block should
be included in any email used to transmit documents to this office:

Program: Non -15 WDID: 5A323001003
Facility Name: Bucks Lake Sewer Facility Order: 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5239

Please note that WDRs Order 98-037 is proposed to be rescinded at the 19/20 October 2017
meeting of the Central Valley Water Board. Upon rescission of your individual WDRs, coverage for
your facility under the General Order shall become applicable subject to this Notice of Applicability.

If you have any questions regarding submitting an updated report of waste discharge, making changes to
your permitted operations, compliance or enforcement please contact Ron S. Falkowski at
(530) 224-3227 , rsfalkowski@waterboards.ca.gov , or the footer address.


Original signed by Bryan Smith

 (for) PAMELA C. CREEDON
Executive Officer

RSF:hc

Attachments: Attachment A – Site Location Map
 Technical Memorandum
 Monitoring and Reporting Program


cc (w/o enc.): Tim O’Brien, State Water Board, Sacramento
 Plumas County Environmental Health Department, Quincy
 Patrick Pulupa, SWRCB, Office of Chief Counsel, Sacramento
ORDER R5-2014-0153 -R5239
SOUTHSHORE H OA, BUCKS LAKE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
PLUMAS COUNTY

 ATTACHMENT A - LOCATION MAP

 PROJECT LOCATION N
DRAWING REFERENCE:
GOOGLE EARTH
MAP DATA: © 201 6 GOOGLE
NO SCALE
 LOCATION MAP

SOUTHSHORE H OA, BUCKS LAKE
WAS TEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL FACILITY
PLUMAS COUNTY




TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

TO: George Low, P .G. FROM: Ron Falkowski
 Senior Engineering Geologist Engineer ing Geologist


DATE: 24 August 2017 SIGNATURE: Original signed by Ron Falkowski

SUBJECT: REVIEW OF NITRATE AND SETBACK CONDITIONS FOR PG&E COMPANY &
SOUTHSHORE HOME OWNERS ASSOCIATION , BUCKS LAKE SEWER
FACILITY , WDR ORDER 98-037, PLUMAS COUNTY

 I have reviewed the case file for Bucks Lake Sewer Facility . The file documents the general
condition of the wastewater treatment and subsurface disposal system . The Discharger has
kept adequate maintenance documentation and all treatment and collection infrast ructure
appears in good order.

 The average daily wastewater flow is less than 8,000 gallons per day .

Potential Threats to Water Quality

The wastewater treatment system is located on the south shore of Bucks Lake , Plumas
County . The closest distance from the leachfield to the nearest property line is greater than
5 feet. The closest potable water well is greater th an 150 feet. The closest surface water is
greater than 500 feet from leachfield . A monitoring well network was installed at the site due
to high groundwater, poor soil conditions and its proximity to Bucks Lake . Completion of the
Nitrate Checklist in Attachment 1 of Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ indicates the following flow and
rationale:

A1 Exceed 20,000 gpd? No.
Wastewater flow generally less than 8,000 gpd.

Conclusion: No nitrogen removal is required.

Monitoring Requirements

 To protect water quality, General Order monitoring requirements will be sufficient. In
summary, Staff recommends quarterly reporting of the average daily flow rate; quarterly
leach field monitoring, and quarterly groundwater well monitoring . Quarterly monitoring will
be reported by the first day of the second month after the quarter ends (e.g. January -March
report is due by May 1st). Annual monitoring will be included with the fourth quarter
monitoring.

CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTRO L BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGIO N
MONITORING A ND REPORTING PROGRAM 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5239
FOR
PACIFIC GAS AND ELEC TRIC
AND
SOUTHSHORE HOME OWNERS ASSOCIATION
PLUMAS COUNTY

This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for monitoring a wastewater
treatment system. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code section 13267. The Discharger shall not
implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued by the Regional Water
Quality Control Board (Regional Water Board) Executive Officer.

The State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) and Regional Water Boards are
transitioning to the paperless office system. In some regions, Dischargers will be directed to submit
reports (both technical and monitoring reports) to the State Water Board’s Electronic Content
Management (ECM) database via email in portable document format (pdf). The email address for the
ECM submittal is : centralvalleyredding@waterboards.ca.gov

Water Code section 13267 states, in part:

“In conducting an investigation specified in subdivision (a), the regional board may require that any
person who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or discharging, or who
proposes to discharge waste within its region, or any c itizen or domiciliary, or political agency or
entity of this state who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or
discharging, or who proposes to discharge, waste outside of its region that could affect the quality of
waters within its region shall furnish, under penalty of perjury, technical or monitoring program reports
which the regional board requires. The burden, including costs, of these reports shall bear a
reasonable relationship to the need for the report and the benefits t o be obtained from the reports. In
requiring those reports, the regional board shall provide the person with a written explanation with
regard to the need for the reports, and shall identify the evidence that supports requiring that person
to provide the r eports.”

Water Code section 13268 states, in part:

“(a) Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports as required by
subdivision (b) of section 13267, or failing or refusing to furnish a statement of compliance as
required by subdivision (b) of section 13399.2, or falsifying any information provided therein, is guilty
of a misdemeanor and may be liable civilly in accordance with subdivision (b).

(b)(1) Civil liability may be administratively imposed by a regional boa rd in accordance with article
2.5 (commencing with section 13323) of chapter 5 for a violation of subdivision (a) in an amount which
shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which the violation occurs.”

The Discharger owns and opera tes the wastewater system that is subject to the Notice of Applicability
(NOA) of Water Quality Order 2014 -0153 -DWQ. The reports are necessary to ensure that the Discharger
complies with the NOA and General Order. Pursuant to Water Code section 13267, the Discharger shall
implement this MRP and shall submit the monitoring reports described herein.

All samples shall be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of material
sampled. The name of the sampler, sample type (grab or compo site), time, date, location, bottle type,
and any preservative used for each sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of custody form. The
MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5239 2
SOUTHSHORE HOA, PLUMAS COUNTY



 chain of custody form must also contain all custody information including date, time, and to whom
samples were re linquished. If composite samples are collected, the basis for sampling (time or flow
weighted) shall be approved by Regional Water Board staff.

Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH, dissolved oxygen, and electrical conductivity) may
be used provided that they are used by a State Water Board California Environmental Laboratory
Accreditation Program certified laboratory, or:

1. The user is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to monitoring events at the frequency recommended by
the manufacturer;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated by the manufacturer at the recommended frequency;
and
4. Field calibration reports are maintained and available for at least thr ee years.

EFFLUENT MONITORING

Monitoring of septic tank shall include the following:
Parameter Units Sample
Type Sampling
Frequency Reporting
Frequency
Flow Rate gpd Metered a Continuous Annually
gpd denotes gallons per day.
a. Flow rate may be metered or estimated based on potable water supply meter readings or other approved
method.

SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL AREA

Subsurface disposal areas may be configured many different ways (e.g. traditional leach field, pressure -
dosed, drip sy stem, mound/at grade, gravel less, etc.). In general, monitoring shall be sufficient to
determine if wastewater is evenly applied, the disposal area is not saturated, burrowing animals and/or
deep rooted plants are not present, and odors are not present. I nspection of dosing pump controllers,
automatic distribution valves, etc. is required to maintain optimum treatment in the disposal area (and
any sand or media filter if present). Monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent Inspection Frequency Reporting Frequency
Pump Controllers, Automatic Valves, etc. a Quarterly Quarterly
Nuisance Odor Condition Quarterly Quarterly
Saturated Soil Conditions b Quarterly Quarterly
Plant Growth c Quarterly Quarterly
Vectors or Animal Burrowing d Quarterly Quarterly
Seepage Pit Condition e Quarterly Quarterly
a. All pump controllers and automatic distribution valves shall be inspected for proper operation as recommended
by the manufacturer.
b. Inspect a disposal area for saturated conditions. If a mound system is used, inspect perimeter base for signs of
wastewater seepage or saturated soil conditions.
c. Shallow -rooted plants are generally desirable, deep -rooted plants such as trees shall be removed as
necessary.
d. Evidence of animals burrowing shall be immediately investigated and burrowing animal populations controlled
as necessary.
MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5239 3
SOUTHSHORE HOA, PLUMAS COUNTY



 e. Seepage pits shall be inspected to ensure they are allowing wastewater to infiltrate as designed. Visu al
inspection of the water level in the seepage pit is adequate.

SOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING

The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit, sludge,
biosolids, etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the name/contact information
for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste transported, the date removed from the
wastewater system, the disposal facility name and address, and copies of analytical data required by the
entity accepti ng the waste. These records shall be submitted as part of the annual monitoring report.

GROUNDWATER MONITORING

Groundwater monitoring data from the current monitoring n etwork of wells MW1, MW -2, and MW3 shall
be collected in May, July and October and sub mitted with its corresponding quarterly report . Analysis of
the data and groundwater flow directions shall be performed at least annually and shall be performed
under the supervision of a California licensed professional (as described above). The Discharge r may
request a reduced monitoring and reporting schedule once adequate data has been collected to
characterize the site. (Typically two years of quarterly sampling is required for adequate
characterization.)

The Discharger shall monitor groundwater quali ty as is consistent with the Business and Professions
Code, groundwater monitoring reports, well construction workplans, etc. shall be prepared under the
supervision of a California licensed civil engineer or geologist. Prior to construction of any new
groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and specifications to the Regional Water
Board’s staff for review and approval. Once installed, all monitoring wells designated as part of the
monitoring network shall be sampled and analyzed acc ording to the schedule below.

Prior to sampling, groundwater elevations shall be measured and the wells shall be purged of at least
three well volumes and until pH and electrical conductivity have stabilized. No -purge, low -flow, or other
sampling techniq ues are acceptable if they are described in an approved Sampling and Analysis Plan.
Depth to groundwater shall be measured to the nearest 0.01 feet. Groundwater elevations shall be
calculated. Samples shall be collected using approved USEPA methods. Ground water monitoring shall
include, at a minimum, the following:

Constituent Units Sample
Type Sampling/Reporting
Frequency c,d
Groundwater Elevation a 0.01 Feet Calculated Quarterly
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly
Gradient Feet/Feet Calculated Quarterly
Gradient Direction degrees Calculated Quarterly
pH Std. Units Grab Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly
Sodium mg/L Grab Quarterly
Chloride mg/L Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms b MPN/100 mL Grab Quarterly
MPN/100 mL denotes most probable number per 100 mL sample. Std. Units denotes standard units. mg/L denotes
milligrams per liter.
a. Groundwater elevation shall be based on depth to water using a surveyed measuring point elevation on the
well and a surveyed reference elevation.
MONITORING AND REPOR TING P ROGRAM NO . 2014 -0153 -DWQ -R5239 4
SOUTHSHORE HOA, PLUMAS COUNTY



 b. Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions.
c. Monitoring of the constituents zinc, phenol, and for maldehyde are required only when recreational vehicles
were allowed to discharge to the wastewater system in the previous 12 months.
d. Analysis of data by a California licensed professional is required at least annually .

REPORTING

In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date,
sample type (e.g., effluent, solids, etc.), and reported analytical or visual inspection results are readily
discernible. The data shall be summarized to clearly illustrate compliance with the General Order and
NOA as applicable. The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations
specified in the MRP shall be reported in the next regularly scheduled monitoring report and shall be
included in calculations as appropriate.

During the life of this General Order, the State Water Board or Regional Water Board may require the
Discharger to electronically submit monitoring reports using the State Water Board’s California Integrated
Water Quality System (CIWQS) program Internet web site or alternative database. Electronic submittal
procedures will be provided when directed to begin electronic submittals. Until directed to electronically
submit monitoring reports, the Discharger shall s ubmit hard copy monitoring reports.

A. Quarterly Monitoring Reports

Quarterly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Water Board on the first day of the second month
after the quarter ends (e.g. the January -March Quarterly Report is due by May 1st). T he reports shall
bear the certification and signature of the Discharger’s authorized representative. At a minimum, the
quarterly reports shall include:

1. Results of all required monitoring.
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specific ations, applicable

===PLANNED CHANGES===

