Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Facilities
(Permit No. 99-86).
 On September 25, 2020, the Central Coast Water Board adopted General Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. R3- 2020- 0020 for Discharges from Domestic
Wastewater Systems with Flows Greater than 100,000 Gallons per Day (General
Permit).


California American Water - 2 - September 16, 202 2
Spreckels Wastewater Treatment Plant
This letter serves as a notice of applicability for enrollment in the General Per mit. This
letter includes: wastewater system operation summary, specific requirements, and
limitations (Attachment 1); figures (Attachment 2); and CA American Water ’s monitoring
and reporting program requirements (Attachment 3).
 This letter also serves as a notice of termination of CAW and historically Watertek’s
coverage in existing individual permit, Permit No. 99-86.
 CA American Water must comply with the following:

1. General Permit – CA American Water must comply with all conditions and
requirements of the General Permit. As described in the General Permit, ongoing operation, maintenance, monitoring, and reporting are required. A copy of the General Permit can be found electronically at the following l ink:

https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/board_decisions/adopted_orders/2
020/r32020_0020.pdf

2. Monitoring and Reporting Program – CA Ame rican Water must comply with
the requirements of the monitoring and reporting program enclosed with this letter ( Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R3 -2022- 0047, Attachment 3). CA
American Water is required to submit quarterly monitoring reports and annual
reports to the Central Coast Water Board and comply with annual volumetric reporting requirements
1 established by the State Water Resources Control Board
(State Water Board). The first quarterly monitoring report is due February 1,
2023, the first annual report is due March 1, 202 3, and the next annual
volumetric data submission must be uploaded to the State Water Board
GeoTracker database by April 30, 2023.
 Quarterly monitoring reports and annual reports must be provided electronically in searchable PDF with the Central Coast Water Board’s current transmittal sheet found at the link below as the cover page. The transmittal sheet must be signed.

https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/water_issues/programs/wastewater
_permitting/docs/transmittal_sheet.pdf
 All annual reports must be formatted and completed as specified in the annual
report template found at the following link:

https://www.wate rboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/board_decisions/adopted_orders/2
020/wdr_annual_report_format.pdf

As described in the attached monitoring and reporting program , CA American
Water must submit all reports/documents and laboratory data to the publicly

1 See: Volumetric Annual Reporting | California State Water Resources Control Board

California American Water - 3 - September 16, 202 2
Spreckels Wastewater Treatment Plant
accessible State Water Board’s GeoTracker2,3 database with applicable
Electronic Submittal of Information (ESI) requirements under the Wastewater
System – specific global identification number WDR100029567 at:
 https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/ust/electronic_submittal/index.html



3. Fees – CA American Water paid an annual fee of $ 7,486 on January 20, 20 22
for coverage in existing individual permit, Permit No. 99-86. This payment covers
CA American Water ’s enrollment in the General Permit for the 202 1-2022 fiscal
year.

CA American Water must pay an annual fee to maintain coverage in the General
Permit. Annual fees are determined by the State Water Board’s fee program and cover the state fiscal year of July 1 through June 30. CA American Water ’s
Wastewater System is currently assigned a threat and complexity rating of 2B .
The current annual fee for 2B facilities is $23,783 and this is anticipated to increase for the 2022- 2023 fiscal year.
 The 2021- 2022 state fee schedule is available electronically at the following link
and the 2022- 2023 fee schedule will be posted here once it is approved:
 https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/resources/fees/water_quality/#wdr


4. Notification – The Central Coast Water Board will be notified of CA American
Water ’s enrollment at a regularly scheduled public meeting on December 8-9 ,
2022. Details about that meeting are available on our website at:
 https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/board_info/agendas/


5. Future Discharge Modifications – Pursuant to California Water Code section
13260, CA American Water must inform the Central Coast Water Board at least
120 days prior to modifying your discharge. If there are any significant changes in either treatment or disposal methodologies, or the volume or character of the treated wastewater, CA American Water must notify the Central Coast Water
Board immediately of such changes.

Attachment 1 contains the Central Coast Water Board’s understanding of the Wastewater System located at 121 Spreckels Blvd., Spreckels, C alifornia 93962 .
Please review Attachment 1 to determine if the description is representative of

2 Information for first -time GeoTracker users is available at:
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/ust/electronic_submittal/docs/beginnerguide2.pdf

3 Additional information available at: https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/ust/electronic_submittal/index.html


California American Water - 4 - September 16, 202 2
Spreckels Wastewater Treatment Plant
your current system. Pursuant to California Water Code section 13267, CA
American Water must notify the Central Coast Water Board if this information is
out of date or incorrect. You are required to provide staff with your updated information within 30 days of issuance of this letter.

6. Responsible Party – CA American Water is responsible for the management
and disposal of the domestic wastewater in compliance with the conditi ons of the
General Permit. Any noncompliance with this General Permit constitutes a violation of the California Water Code, and subjects CA American Water to
enforcement action, and termination of enrollment under this General Permit.

7. Change in Ownership – In the event of any change in control or ownership of
the property, CA American Water must notify the succeeding owner or operator
of the existence of this General Permit by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to the Central Coast Water Board so that the new owner or operator can be enrolled in the General Permit and CA American Water ’s
enrollment in the General Permit can be terminated.

8. Certified Operator – CA American Water is required to comply with the operator
certification requirements
4 administered by the State Water Board’s Office of
Operator Certification, which currently requires a Grade I certified wastewater
treatment plant operator onsite to maintain and operate the Wastewater System.

9. Termination of Pe rmit – The existing individual permit, Permit No. 99-86 is
terminated, except for enforcement purposes5. Watertek is named as the
Discharger on the 1999 individual order . Watertek sold the wastewater system to
CA American Water in about 2003 and took responsibility for the system. CA
American Water is responsible for compliance with Permit No. 99 -86 prior to the
date of this letter , including , but not limited to, any outstanding reports required
by Permit No. 99- 86.

10. Compliance Schedule – CA American Water anticipates it will need more than
two years to comply with some of the groundwater and