FACILITY DESCRIP TION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatm ent
1. Location and Service Area . The plant is located at 195 Belle Air Road in the City of South
San Francisco. It provid es secondary wastewater treatment of domestic, commercial, and
industrial wastewater for the cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno, the Town of
Colma, and portions of Daly City. The plant serves a population of about 113,500.
2. Collection System . The City of South San Francisco wastewater collection system and City
of San Bruno wastew ater collection system are covered by this Order and convey wastewater
to the p lant. The South San Francisco collection system consists of approximately 148 miles
of gravity sewers and force mains and seven pump stations. The San Bruno collection system
consists of approximately 77 miles of gravity sewers and force mains, 20 miles of lower
laterals, and six pump stations . The Town of Colma and City of Daly City operate satellite
collection systems that discharge transmit wastewater to the South San Francisc o collection
system .
3. Wastewater Treatment . The plant receives untreated wastewater from three force main
pump stations. The influent flows through bar screens and two grit removal systems. During
normal dry weather operations, it is treated with ferric chloride and polymer for flocculation
and pumped to a flow splitter for distribution to primary clarifiers, where grease, floating
solids, and settable solids are removed .
The primary -treated wastewater typically flows by gravity to five aeration basins as tw o
separate flow streams. Another four aeration basins remain in stand -by mode. They are
scheduled for retrofitting and mainly used for wet weather flows. The wastewater is
combined in the aeration basins with return activated sludge from secondary clarifiers. It then
flows by gravity through the aeration basins to secondary clarifiers for sedimentation and
floating solids removal. During wet weather, when influent flow greatly exceeds the peak
secondary treatment design capacity (currently 30 MGD ), primary effluent may be routed
around the aeration basins and secondary clarifiers and blended with secondary- treated
effluent. These bypasses are subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C of this Order and
Attachment D section I.G.
The secondary- treated wastewater flows by gravity to two chlorine contact basins where it is
mixed with sodium hypochlorite for disinfection. After disinfection, it flows by gravity to the
NBSU effluent pumping stat ion wet well (Discharge Point No. 001), where it is blended with
chlorinated effluent from the c ities of Burlingame and Millbrae , and the San Francisco
International Airport. It is then mixed with sodium bisulfite to neutralize the residual
chlorine. The c ombined effluent is pumped through the NBSU outfall (Discharge Point
No. 002) and discharged to Lower San Francisco Bay about one mile offshore from Oyster
Point.
The flow schematic in Attachment C shows these steps. The plant has an average dry weather
capacity of 13 MGD and a peak wet weather capacity of 62 MGD . From June 2014 through
October 2018, the plant treated a daily average of 8.28 MGD, with the highest reported
average daily flow being 36 MGD. Wet weather diversions , or blending, occurred five time
Cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and NBSU Order No. R2-2019 -0021
South San Francisco / San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant NPDES N o. CA0038130


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6 during the previous order term, with volumes of blended effluent ranging from 0.83 to 15.34
MGD.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity and
mechanical thickeners or waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters,
and belt filter presses f or dewatering. The digested and dewatered biosolids are hauled offsite
to a permitted landfill.
5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
headworks for treatment ; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements ar e necessary.
B. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

. Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning the projects summarized below to reduce wet weather bypasses.
These projects were originally set for the previous order term but were delayed due to design
changes and funding. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes . The Discharger pl ans to compl ete the following
projects by 2022:
• Reestablish a sewer lateral program for the city of South San Francisco to inspect and repair
private sewer laterals during point of sale and evaluat e the feasibility of providing financial
assistance to property owners for private sewer lateral repair or replacement ;
• Improve electrical reliability by replacing the generator and switchgear, replacing elevated
bus duct, and installing a new generator building;
• Replace two old digesters with a single recuperative thi ckening digester;
• Rehabilitate and repair the bar screen bypass, motorized operators at flow split, and the
blower building;
Cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and NBSU Order No. R2-2019 -0021
South San Francisco / San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant NPDES N o. CA0038130


Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-10 • Construct a new secondary clarifier and increase secondary capacity from 30 MGD to 40
MGD; and
• Rehabilitate aeration basins for use during wet weather flows.
This Order authorizes these changes subject to conditions set forth in Provision VI.C.5.c.
III.