ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5 2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System . The plant provides secondary treatment
of domestic and commercial wastewater from the City of St. Helena . Its
estimated service area population is approximately 6,000 people. The City
owns and operates 18.8 miles of gravity sewer lines, 1.0 miles of force main
sewer lines, 1.0 mile s of laterals, and two pump stations.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment .
2.1.2.1. Existing. The plant’s average dr y weather treatment capacity is 0.5 0 MGD
and its peak wet weather capacity is 2.8 MGD .
The treatment process consists of solids grinding using a comminutor ,
biological treatment through a series of ponds ( Ponds 1A through 3) ,
polishing and flow equalization (Pond 4), and chlorine disinfection. Treated
wastewater flows to the final storage pond (Pond 5), from which it may either
be recycled or dechl orinated with ascorbic acid and discharged to the Napa
River. The table below describes the sizes of these ponds:
Table F- 2. Biological Treatment Ponds
Pond Type Surface Area
(acres) Depth
(feet) Storage Capacity
(million gallons )
1A Facultative with Digester 2.9 10 8.1
1B Facultative with Digester 2.1 14 7.5
2 High-Rate (Aeration) 5.1 3.0 4.0
3 Algae Sedimentation 2.5 9.0 6.3
4 Polishing and Storage 3.0 11.5 9.8
5 Polishing and Storage 6.7 13 24.6
2.1.2.2. Planned. The Discharger intends to upgrade the plant during the Order term .
The upgraded plant will be designed to treat the same average dry weather
flow as is currently permitted (0.50 MGD) and to treat a peak wet weather flow of 1.5 MGD. Treatment is expected to include a headworks with coarse
screening; solids grinding using the existing comminutor; primary flow
equalization; secondary and tertiary treatment via a packaged membrane
bioreactor system , consisting of activated sludge biological process basins
and submerged membrane filtration trains ; and UV disinfection. The ponds
that currently provide biological treatment and polishing will be modified for
use as flow equalization and storage basins . Tertiary -treated effluent will be
dosed with chlorine and routed to Pond 5 for storage prior to discharge or
reclamation.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management .
2.1.3.1. Existing. The Discharger does not remove solids from its ponds on a regular
basis. Most of the solids settle out in Ponds 1A and 1B, where they are
City of St. Helena Order R2- 2021 -0004
City of St. Helena Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Plant NPDES Permit CA0038016
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6 anaerobically digested at the bottom of the pond. When solids accumulate to
the point where treatment becomes ineffect ive, the Discharger drains Ponds
1A and 1B to excavate the solids .
2.1.3.2. Planned. Waste sludge from the membrane bioreactor tanks will be pumped
to a wet sludge storage tank that will feed into a new onsite dewatering unit.
After dewatering, solids will be hauled offsite.
2.1.4. Stormwater Management . Runoff from paved areas at the plant is directed to
an onsite bioswale, where it infiltrates to soil. During the plant upgrade, the
Discharger will construct a bermed perimeter around the new treatment units
that will direct additional runoff to a manhole and return it to the plant
headworks. The Discharger maintains coverage for its stormwater discharges
through enrollment in the Phase II Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System Permit (Small MS4 Permit ), NPDES General Permit CAS000004. As
required by the Small MS4 Permit, the Discharger has developed and maintains
a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
2.1.5. Recycled Water . The Discharger’s water recycling activites are currently
covered under Regional Water Board Order 87- 090. During this Order’s term,
the Discharger will be transferred to the State Water Board’s Water
Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Order WQ
2016- 0068- DDW). The Discharger will receive written notification regarding
when this change will take effect.
2.1.5.1. Existing. Except when discharging to the Napa River, t he plant produces
secondary -treated waste water for reclamation. The Discharger uses treated
effluent to irrigate roughly 80 acres of fields adjacent to the plant .
Approximately two percent of treated effluent is used to irrigate a small
redwood tree f arm and to grow mosquito fish.
2.1.5.2. Planned. The upgraded plant will be designed to achieve the disinfected
tertiary treatment standards of California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 4, section 60301.230. During this Order’s term, the Discharger plans
to continue applying treated effluent to its onsite fields and to expand its
redwood tree farm . In the longer term, the Discharger hopes to attract local
recycled water customers willing to connect to a proposed recycled water
pipeline .
2.1.6 Planned Upgrade Schedule. As discussed further in Fact Sheet section 2. 4.1,
Cease and Desist Order (CDO) R2- 2016- 0004 imposed a time schedule for the
Discharger to implement advanced secondary treatment . The table below
summarizes the remaining tasks and when the Discharger expects to complete them. Some of these dates are later than those specified in CDO R2-2016- 0004. The schedule below is included for informational purposes only.
It does not super sede t he requirements of CDO R2- 2016- 0004.
City of St. Helena Order R2- 2021 -0004
City of St. Helena Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Plant NPDES Permit CA0038016
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-7 Table F- 3. Planned Upgrades Schedule
Description Anticipated
Completion Date
Submit documentation of the completion of Final Workplan
implementation and begin operation of the new or modified treatment
system. (CDO Table 3, task f) August 5, 202 2
Submit a report evaluating the effectiveness of the new or modified
treatment system and whether it is likely to meet the requirements of
the NPDES permit. Identify and implement measures to ensure
compliance. (CDO Table 3, task g) October 6, 2022
Achieve full compliance with the 2016 Permit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned upgrades described in Fact Sheet section 2.1.2.2 will include new headworks screening and a new membrane bioreactor treatment system, both of which are expected to significantly improve BOD and TSS removal when compared to the existing
pond system.
These violations were anticipated when the previous order was adopted. To
qualify for an exception to Basin Plan Discharge Prohibition 1 (see Fact Sheet section 4.1.2), t he previous order imposed more stringent BOD and TSS
requirements associated with advanced secondary treatment to ensure a level
of environmental protection equivalent to complying with Basin Plan Discharge Prohibition 1 when discharging to the Napa River . Because the Discharger was
unable to immediately comply with the more stringent limits, the Regional Water
Board adopted CDO R2-2016- 0004 and imposed a time schedule for
compliance . The Discharger has fallen behind the CDO time schedule, partly
because of delays related to the Napa County wildfires in fall 2017, and partly
due to concerns about high nutrient levels in the groundwater underlying the Discharger’s spray fields (further described below in this section) , which
necessitated that the Discharger incorporate nutrient removal into its project design. Despite these setbacks, the Discharger has made substantial progress
and expects its advanced secondary treatment system to begin operating in spring 2023 (see Fact Sheet Table F- 3).
Of the violations li sted above, six were exceedances of the average BOD and
TSS percent removal requirement s. The Discharger attributed these to
excessive inflow and infiltration during periods of sustained wet weather.
Through the City’s Sewer System Management Plan, the Dis charger is working
to repair and replace sections of its collection system that were identified as
City of St. Helena Order R2- 2021 -0004
City of St. Helena Wastewater Treatment and Reclamation Plant NPDES Permit CA0038016
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-11 concerns during its most recent collection system evaluation and prioritization.
The planned plant upgrades are also expected to improve the plant’s BOD and
TSS removal capabilities.
The cyanide and residual chlorine violations in 2017 and 2019 were likely
caused by improper ascorbic acid dosing for dechorination. Because no
cyanide was detected in influent samples collected during the same period, the
Discharger believes nitrogen- containing compounds in its disinfected effluent
may have reacted with the dechlorination chemical to form cyanide. The
February 2019 chlorine residual violation, which lasted approximately five minutes, resulted from insuffici ent manual dechlorinating chemical dosing prior
to discharge. The Discharger has since refined its ascorbic acid dosing
procedures and plans to significantly reduce its use of chlorinating and
dechlorinating chemicals when it completes the plant upgrades , which will
include a new UV disinfection system.
The Discharger attributed the March 2019 total coliform exceedance to a
disinfect ant feed pump failure caused by high back pressure in the pump’s
supply line. T o reduce the likelihood of a similar event occurring , the Dischar ger
installed pressure relief valves and new feed pumps with a higher pressure capacity .
The cause of the March 2016 pH violations remains unknown, although the Discharger detect ed unusually low influent pH levels during the same period. To
better control effluent pH levels, the Discharger installed flow- paced chlorine
and ascorbic acid dosing systems. The Discharger was similarly unable to
confirm the source of its 2019 copper exceedances. The m ultiple copper
violations were not immediately recognized because the Discharger’s contract
laboratory initially analyzed the copper samples with insufficiently sensitive methods. No similar events were observed during the remainder of the order term.
The Regional Water Board assessed mandatory mini mum penalties for all
violations through March 2019, with the exception of the BOD and TSS
violations addressed by CDO R2-2016- 0004. Enforcement for the more recent
violations is pending.
During the previous order term , the Discharger also violated its water
reclamation requirements (Regional Water Board Order 87- 090). The
Discharger applied reclaimed water to its spray fields at greater than agronomic rates, failed to notify the Regional Water Board of the violation, and did not
submit a corrective acti on plan. In response, Regional Water Board staff issued
a Notice of Violation in November 2016 requiring the Discharger to evaluate its
current reclamation practices and their impacts on