Facility Information

1. The names , certificate grades, and general responsibilities of all persons in charge of
wastewater treatment and disposal.

2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency
and routine situations.

3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibrations (Standard Provision C.4).

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM O RDER R5 -2016- 0061
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -8-
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, sampling plan, and
contingency plan, reflect the WWTF as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.

5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the previous five calendar years.

6. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the
discharge into full compliance with this Order.

Biosolids/Sludge Monitoring

1. Annual production to tals in dry tons or cubic yards.

2. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal methods used. If more than one method is used, include the percentage disposed of by each
method.

a. For landfill disposal, include: the name and location of the landfill, and the Order number
of WDRs that regulate it.

b. For land application, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any
WDRs that regulate it.

c. For incineration, include: the name and location of the site where incineration occurs, the Order number of WDRs that regulate the site, the disposal method of ash, and the
name and location of the facility receiving ash (if applicable) .

d. For composting, include: the location of the site, and the Order number of any WDRs that regulate it.

3. Include the results of monitoring specified on pages 4 and 5.

Source Water Reporting

1. Include the results of monitoring specified on page 4.

The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.

 Original Signed by
 Ordered by: ____________________________________
 PAMELA C. CREEDON, Executive Officer
 18 August 2016
 _____________________________________
 (Date)
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM O RDER R5 -2016- 0061
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
TULARE COUNTY

 -9-
GLOSSARY
BOD 5 Five-day biochemical oxygen demand
CBOD Carbonaceous BOD
DO Dissolved oxygen
EC Electrical conductivity at 25° C
FDS Fixed dissolved solids
NTU Nephelometric turbidity unit
TKN Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TDS Total dissolved solids
TSS Total suspended solids
Continuous The specified parameter shall be measured by a meter continuously.
24-Hour Composite Samples shall be a flow -proportioned composite consisting of at least eight aliquots.
Daily Samples shall be collected at least every day.
Twice Weekly Samples shall be collected at least twice per week on non- consecutive days.
Weekly Samples shall be collected at least once per week.
Twice Monthly Samples shall be collected at least twice per month during non- consecutive weeks.
Monthly Samples shall be collected at least once per month.
Bimonthly Samples shall be collected at least once every two months (i.e., six times per year)
during non- consecutive months.
Quarterly Samples shall be collected at least once per calendar quarter. Unless otherwise
specified or approved, samples shall be collected in January, April, July, and October.
Semiannually Samples shall be collected at least once every six months (i.e., two times per year).
Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in April and
October.
Annually Samples shall be collected at least once per year. Unless otherwise specified or approved, samples shall be collected in October.
mg/L Milligrams per liter
mL/L milliliters [of solids] per liter
ug/L Micrograms per liter
umhos/cm Micromhos per centimeter
mgd Million gallons per day
MPN/100 mL Most probable number [of organisms] per 100 milliliters
General Minerals Analysis for General Minerals shall include at least the following:
Alkalinity Chloride Sodium
Bicarbonate Hardness Sulfate
Calcium Magnesium TDS
Carbonate Potassium Nitrate
 General Minerals analyses shall be accompanied by documentation of cation/anion
balance
INFORMATION SHEET

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0061
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY TULARE COUNTY


BACKGROUND
The Strathmore Public Utility District (PUD or District ) owns and operates a wastewater treatment
facility (WWTF) that produces undisinfected secondary treated wastewater . The WWTF consists of a
clarigester, two oxidation ponds, six evaporation/percolation ponds, and two unlined sludge drying
beds . The existing WWT F was constructed in 1950 and has likely met its end of useful life . The
discharge from the WWTF is regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements Order 85- 024.

In 2002 the Central Valley Water Board issued Cleanup and abatement Order R5- 2002 -0730 (CAO)
after the Discharger reported that pond and clarigester sludge contained toxic concentrations of
copper. The CAO required the Discharge to cleanup and dispose of copper laden sludge and land application areas, cleanup dispose of and abate conditions of impacted soils, and characterize the
horizontal and vertical extent of groundwater degradation and pollution, if any, caused by the handling of copper laden sludge.
 The District submitted required reports, removed stockpiled copper laden sludge, characterized copper levels in pond bottom soils, and conducted additional groundwater monitoring (Monitoring
Wells have been reported as dry since 2008) . Remaining tasks include completing pond soil cleanup
and resumption of groundwater monitoring.
Wastewater
The WWTF serves a population of approximately 3,000 and three citrus packing houses. Wastewater gravity flows to the WWTF where it receives secondary treatment. The District’s operators have been
collecting effluent samples after the clarigester (primary treatment) but before the oxidation ponds
(secondary treatment) so effluent results are representative of primary treatment and do not represent
any secondary treatment provided by the oxidation pond/s. E ffluent monitoring results for the period
January 2011 through November 2015 are represented in the table below.
Table 1 - Summary of Effluent Analytical Results (2011- 2015)
Parameter
 Units
 Average
 Range
BOD
 mg/L
 143
 65-280
Total Suspended Solids
 mg/L
 141
 74-460
Total Copper
 μg/L
 212
 32-640
Soluble Copper μg/L
 100
 ND-100

Source Water
The Discharger supplies the community of Strathmore with drinking water from surface water from the Friant -Kern Canal and groundwater from one municipal supply well . The table below presents water
quality data from the District’s 2014 Consumer Confidence Report.






INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0061 -2-
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY TULARE COUNTY












DISPOSAL METHODS

Solids
Sludge from the Clarigester is discharged to two unlined drying beds, and then stockpiled onsite
before until there is a sufficient quantity to economically remove it.

Wastewater
From the clarigester wastewater is discharged via gravity to one of two treatment/disposal trains, each consisting of an oxidation pond and three evaporation/percolation ponds. Typically only one
evaporation/percolation pond is needed for wastewater disposal , which is generally the
evaporation/percolation pond directly in line with whichever oxidation pond is in use. Discharge
Specification C.14.e requires that vegetation management in areas in which nesting birds have been
observed be carried out either before or after, but not during the April 1 to June 30 bird nesting
season. Regional Water Board staff will not find the District in violation of Discharge Specification C.14. b or c for not minimizing pond weeds in accordance with Discharge Specification C.14.e during
the April 1 to June 30 period if nesting birds are observed.
 Groundwater Considerations
The WWTF is in the Consolidated Hydrologic Area (No. 558.10) of the South Valley Hydrologic Unit,
as depicted on hydrologic maps prepared by State Water Resources Control Board in August 1986 .

Limited published groundwater quality data from the United States Geological Survey (USGS) shows
regional wells contain nitrate as nitrogen concentrations above the MCL of 10 mg/L (results range
form 40 -45 mg/L). The data also shows EC ranges from 612 to 844 umhos/cm . The Discharger has
been monitoring groundwater quality at the site since the mid 1980’s.

The original groundwater monitoring network was installed in the mid 1980’s and included pairs of
shallow and deep monitoring wells as well as a domestic well. A 1985 Effluent Disposal Monitoring Well System report proposed a monitoring well network consisting of pairs of deep and shallow wells.
Shallow wells were to be no more than twelve feet deep and deep wells were to be approximately
30 feet deep. Monitoring reports indicate that the shallow wells have been dry since 2001 and deep
wells were reported as dry in 2008. The last groundwater monitoring report submitted with
groundwater elevation data was submitted in 2006, with groundwater depth for the five District
controlled monitoring wells ranging from 22.35 to 26.78 feet deep.

Regional groundwater underlying the area is first- encountered at about 310 feet above mean sea
level (amsl) and flows to the west; according to the DWR Groundwater Information Center (GIC)
Interactive map using data from Fall 2015. Table 2. Strathmore PUD - Source Water Quality
Parameter Units
 Average
 Range
EC
 umhos/cm
 230
 30-620
TDS
 mg/L
 150
 31-370
Chloride
 mg/L
 14.6
 2.5-37
Sulfate mg/L
 14
 2.2-35
Nitrate as N mg/L
 21
 20-42

INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0061 -3-
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY TULARE COUNTY



Regulatory Considerations

Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Water Quality Objectives
The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition (hereafter Basin Plan)
designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, contains implementation plans and
policies for protecting waters of the basin, and incorporates by reference plans and policies adopted
by the State Water Board. Pursuant to Water Code section 13263(a), waste discharge requirements
must implement the Basin Plan.

The WWTF lies within Detailed Analysis Unit (DAU) 242, within the Kaweah Basin Hydrologic Unit.
The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater as set forth in the Basin Plan are municipal and
domestic supply (MUN), agricultural supply (AGR), industrial service supply and industrial process
supply (IND).

The Basin Plan includes a water quality objective for chemical constituents that, at a minimum,
requires waters designated as domestic or municipal supply to meet the MCLs specified in Title 22.
The Basin Plan recognizes that the Central Valley Water Board may apply limits more stringent than
MCLs to ensure that waters do not contain chemical constituents in concentrations that adversely
affect beneficial uses.

The Basin Plan establishes narrative water quality objectives for Chemical Constituents, Taste and
Odors, and Toxicity. The Toxicity objective, in summary, requires that groundwater be maintained
free of toxic substances in concentrations that produce detrimental physiological responses in human,
plant, animal, or aquatic life associated with designated beneficial uses. Quantifying a narrative water quality objective requires a site -specific evaluation of those constituents that have the potential to
impact water quality and beneficial uses.

The Basin plan states that the evaporation of reclaimable wastewater is not an acceptable permanent
disposal method where the opportunity exists to replace an existing use of proposed use of fresh
water with reclaimed water. The new Order contains a Provision requiring the District to submit a
demonstration that it has determined the current land uses for each parcel within a (1) mile radius of
the WWTF (including District -owned parcels), identified potential uses of recycled water for each
parcel, and appropriately informed land owners and formally requested their consideration of
accepting WWTF effluent for a recycled water project. The Discharger shall provide an explanation if
no potential uses of recycled water are identified for a particular parcel. Notification of land owners must include pertinent effluent monitoring results and water quality goals for the recycled water uses identified. If the Discharger identifies a feasible recycled water project, the Discharger shall submit a
Report of Waste Discharge and arrange for preparation of a Title 22 Engineering Report in
accordance with Title 22, section 60323, and a copy of this report shall be provided to State Water
Resources Control Board, Division of Drinking Water (DDW) . This provision shall be considered
satisfied upon submittal by the Discharger of a complete Report of Waste Discharge and a letter from
DDW determining the corresponding Title 22 Engineering Report is complete , or when the Executive
Officer concludes that the Discharger has provided sufficient justification for not using effluent for recycled water.



INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0061 -4-
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY TULARE COUNTY


Antidegradation Analysis
State Water Board Resolution No. 68- 16 (“Policy with Respect to Maintaining High Quality Water of
the State”) (the “Antidegradation Policy”) prohibits degradation of groundwater unless it has been
shown that:

a. The degradation does not result in water quality less than that prescribed in state and regional policies, including violation of one or more water quality objectives;
 b. The degradation will not unreasonably affect present and anticipated future beneficial uses;

c. The discharger employs Best Practicable Treatment or Control (BPTC) to minimize
degradation; and
 d. The degradation is consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state.

The Discharger has been monitoring groundwater quality at the site since 1980’s . Based on the data
available, it is not possible to determine pre- 1968 groundwater quality. Therefore, determination of
compliance with Resolution 68- 16 for this facility must be based on best groundwater quality
unaffected by the discharge.

The discharge is not expected to cause significant groundwater degradation. Degradation that does
occur will not vio late water quality objectives. Based on this, the proposed discharge will not cause
exceedances of water quality objectives nor impair beneficial uses.

This Order includes influent, effluent, and groundwater monitoring requirements to verify that the discharge does not cause violations of water quality objectives or impairment of beneficial uses.
The WWTF will provide treatment and control of the discharge that incorporates: secondary treatment
of wastewater ; an operation and maintenance m anual ; certified operators to ensure proper operation
and maintenance; and s ource water, discharge, and groundwater monitoring.

Generally, limited degradation of groundwater by some of the typical waste constituents of concern
(e.g., sodium, chloride, sulfate, and nitrate) released with discharge from a municipal wastewater utility after effective source control, treatment, and control is consistent with maximum benefit to the
people of the sta te. The technology, energy, and waste management advantages of municipal utility
service far exceed any benefits derived from a community otherwise reliant on numerous concentrated individual wastewater systems, and the impacts on water quality will be substantially
less. The economic prosperity of valley communities and associated industry is of maximum benefit to the people of the state, and therefore provides sufficient reason to accommodate planned growth
and allow for limited groundwater degradation.

Title 27
California Code of Regulations, t itle 27, section 20005 et seq. (Title 27) contains regulations to
address certain discharges to land. Title 27 establishes a waste classification system, specifies siting
and construction standards for full containment of classified waste, requires extensive monitoring of
groundwater and the unsaturated zone for any indication of failure of containment, and specifies
closure and post -closure maintenance requirements. Generally, no degradation of groundwater
quality by any waste constituent in a classified waste is acceptable under Title 27 regulations.


INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER R5 -2016- 0061 -5-
STRATHMORE PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTIY TULARE COUNTY


The discharge of effluent and the operation of treatment or storage facilities associated with a sewage
treatment and storage facility can be allowed without requiring compliance with Title 27, provided any
resulting degradation of groundwater is in accordance with the Basin Plan and the waste need not be
managed as hazardous waste.

Legal Effect of Rescission of Prior WDRs or Orders on Existing Violations
The Board’s rescission of prior waste discharge requirements and/or monitoring and reporting orders does not extinguish any violations that may have occurred during the time those waste discharge
requirements or orders were in effect. The Central Valley Water Board reserves the right to take
enforcement actions to address violations of prior prohibitions, limitations, specifications, requirements, or provis ions of rescinded waste discharge requirements or orders as allowed by law.
 Proposed Order Terms and Conditions
Discharge Prohibitions, Specifications and Provisions
The proposed Order prohibits the discharge of waste to surface waters and to surface water drainage
courses.
 The proposed Order restricts the discharge to a dry weather monthly average daily flow limit of
0.4 mgd. This Order provides a 10 year time schedule for compliance with an EC limit of source
water EC plus 500 umhos/cm.

The proposed Order prescribes groundwater limitations that ensure the discharge does not affect
present and anticipated beneficial uses of groundwater .

The Order also includes Provisions requiring the Discharger to conduct an engineering evaluation of
the WWTF to ensure the WWTF meets all Tulare Lake Basin Plan requirements for a secondary
treatment facility, submit a Salinity Management Plan, pursue water recycling, and submit a revised
Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Work Plan to improve groundwater monitoring.

Monitoring Requirements
Section 13267 of the W ater Code authorizes the Central Valley Water Board to require the Dis trict to
submit monitoring and technical reports as necessary to investigate the impact of a waste discharge
on waters of the State.

The proposed Order includes influent and effluent monitoring requirements, pond monitoring, source
water monitoring, biosolids/ sludge monitoring, and groundwater monitoring. This monitoring is
necessary to characterize the discharge, evaluate compliance with