FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Are a. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 1400
Radio Road in Redwood City. It provides advanced secondary treatment of
domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the cities of Belmont, San
Carlos, Redwood City, and Woodside; and for the service area of the West Bay
Sanitary District, which collects wastewater from the cities of Menlo Park,
Atherton, and Portola Valley, and areas of East Palo Alto, Woodside, and
unincorporated San Mateo and S anta Clara counties. The Facility serves a
population o f about 220,000 people. Attachment B provides a map and aerial
photo of the area around the treatment plant .
2.1.2 Collection System . The Discharger’s wastewater collection system is part of
the Facili ty covered by this Order. It consists of approximately nine miles of
force main and four pump stations, which receive wastewater from four satellite
wastewater collection systems (West Bay Sanitary District, City of Belmont, City
of San Carlos, and City of Redwood City). Wastewater travels by gravity to the
four pump stations and then by force main to the treatment plant. During wet
weather, the plant’s booster station and influent lift station may be used to
handle elevated force main flows. An earth and r ip-rap equalization basin
owned by the West Bay Sanitar y District may be used to reduce force main
flows. After the Discharger completes its upgrades, it will have two pump
stations, Menlo Park and Redwood City ; the Belmont and San Carlos pump
stations will no longer operat e.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment . The wastewater treatment process consists of
preliminary screening with mechanical bar screens, primary sedimentation,
secondary biological treatment with fixed film reactors and aeration basins,
secondary clarification, mono - or dual -media filtration (the Dis charger
occasionally routes flows around these filters when influent flows are high ),
chlorine disinfection with sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium
bisulfite. Coagulant may be added t o the dual media filter flow for recycled
water product ion. A new headworks planned for late 2023. When placed into
operation, the influent will go through new bar screens and a new grit removal
system prior to flowing through to the existing treatment sys tem, including the
existing mechanical bar screens.
The treatment plant has an average daily treatment capacity of up to 29 million
gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 71 MGD. From April
2018 through September 2022, the plant discharge d 13.6 MGD and a single
day maximum average of 41.2 MGD. Attachment C provides the treatment plant
flow schematic.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management . Primary sludge is processed using a
gravity thickener and rotating drum thickeners, and secondary slu dge is
Silicon Valley Clean Water Order R2-2023 -0003
Silicon Valley Clean Water Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 38369
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6processed using gravity belt thickeners. The thickened sludge is pumped to the
anaerobic digestion process. Three primary anaerobic digesters are
mechanically mixed and designed to operate at 95 deg rees Fahrenheit with a
hydraulic retention time of 33 days with three digesters in service . Ferric
chloride is added to the anaerobic digester feed to reduce hydrogen sulfide in
the digester gas. Biosolids are de -watered using polymer conditioning and
rotary fan press units. The solids are transported to c oncrete lined air -drying
beds. During the wet weath er season, solids are conveyed to trucks for
disposal. Centrate from the rotary fan press units and decant from the biosolids
drying beds are conveyed back to the treatment plant and combined with
primary influent. Up to about 40 percent of the solids coll ected downstream
from the fan press units is sent to an onsite biosolids drying process involving
pyrolysis to create biochar used for beneficial reuse.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management . All stormwater flows i n contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary .
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger’s recycled water production flow
capacity is approximately 13 MGD. Since 201 8, the Discharger has produced a
yearly average of approximately 21 million gallons per month of tertiary -treated,
unrestricted use recycled water. Production typically peaks during the dry
season (from May through September), with maximum pr oduction reaching
approximately 4 0 million gallons per month and declines during the wet season
(from October through April). An additional chemical coagulation treatment step
may be included just prior to tertiary filtration to produce this recycled water .
Most recycled water is used to irrigate landscaping in Redwood City, and a
portion is used onsite for toilet flush water, fire suppression water, and some
chemical feed systems, such as sodium bisulfite dosin g for dechlorination. The
Discharger plan s to increase its recycled water use through the Potable Reuse
Exploratory Plan with the San Francisco Public Utility Commission, Cal -Water,
Bay Area Water Supply and Conservation Agency, and City of San Mateo.
Recycled water activities are regulated under State Water Board Order
WQ 2016 -0068 -DDW .
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes . The Discharger plans a series of plant improvements throu gh
its 980-million dollar Regional Environmental Sewer Conveyance Upgrade
Program . The follow projects are expected to be completed during this permit
term:
·New headworks, including new influent pump sta tion, odor control, screening ,
and grit removal ;
·Primary sedimentation tank channel coating and hatch replacement ;
·Generator feed relocation and panel replacement to provide flexibility and
reliability to emergency generator system ;
·Biochar system start-up to allow the Discharger to convert over 40 percent of
its biosolids into biochar ;
·Fixed film reactor refurbish ment and media replacement ; and
·Anaerobic digester refurbishing and replace ment of all digester sludge and gas
piping , valves , and all instrumentation .
These changes are mentioned here for informati onal purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability. Their in clusion here does not imply Regional Water Board
authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes .
2.6. Sea Level Rise. In its response to a sea level rise questionnaire the Regional
Water Board sent on April 14, 2021, the Discharger noted that the treatment plant
is protected by the City of Redwood City ’s levee. In 2010, the Discharger also
constructed a wall reaching 12 feet above sea level (two feet above the City of
Redwood City’s levee) to account for the FEMA sea level rise storm wave
scenarios available at that time. Portions of the treatment plant are below sea
level, and groundwater can infiltrate the site during some high tide scenarios. The
Discharger upgraded its bilge system to h andle these scenarios and continues to
track any changes in pumping capacity needs . The Discharger continues to work
with the City of Redwood City and San Mateo County on sea level rise and flood
control planning and response.
Silicon Valley Clean Water Order R2-2023 -0003
Silicon Valley Clean Water Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA00 38369
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-103.