September 23, 2014
 2.2.2. Descri be wastewater pretreatment components.
2.2.2.1. Domestic wastewater pretreatment systems (e.g. septic tank effluent
pump system, grease traps, etc.).
2.2.2.2. Describe storage, treatment, and disposal of pretreatment residuals.
2.2.3. Describe pre liminary treatment activities ( e.g., screening , comminution, grit
removal ).
2.2.3.1. Describe storage, treatment, and disposal of preliminary t reatment
residuals .
2.2.4. Describe primary treatment activities (remove settleable/flotable matter)
2.2.4.1. Describe storage, treatment, and disposal of primary treatm ent
residuals.
2.2.5. Describe treatment technology ( e.g., activated sludge, membrane biological
reactor, aerated lagoon, oxidation ditch, Imhoff tank, septic tank, etc .) includ e
engineered design capacity in description .
2.2.5.1. Describe storage, treatment, and disposal of treatment residuals ( e.g.
sludge, septage, etc.).
2.2.6. Size and location of treatment equipment ( e.g. septic tank volume, package
treatment plant, membrane biological reactor, pond size include acreage and
storage capacity, pond liners, and number and hors epower of aerators, etc .).
2.2.7. Disinfection system equipment
2.2.8. Storage facilities
2.2.8.1. If wastewater will be stored prior to disposal , describe the s ize and
location of wastewater storage ponds , include a map showing all the
ponds and describe them as lined or not . Describe the materials, age,
and condition of any liners .
2.2.9. Predicted wastewater effluent quality
2.2.9.1. Characterize the wastewater for TSS, BOD, total coliform organisms (if
needed), and specific constituents of concern as needed. If RV waste
is discharged to th e system, characterize for holding tank chemicals
identified in the General Order (and others as appropriate) .
2.2.10. Treated effluent di sposal method
2.2.10.1. Describe how treated wastewater will be dispersed ( land application
area, leach field, percolation pond) .
2.2.10.2. Descri be the proposed disposal area (and the 100- percent replacement
area when needed, such as for a leach field disposal system) include
acreage, surrounding land use, depth to groundwater , and the proximity
of drainage ways, surface waters, and municipal, industrial, or
agricultural wells .
ATTACHMENT B1 – INFORMATION SHEET B1-4
RECOMMENDED REPORT OF WASTE DISCHARGE FORMAT
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD
ORDER WQ 2014- 0153- DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS


September 23, 2014
 2.2.10.2.1. If land application is proposed, describe how storm water that
falls on the land application area (LAA) is handled. If storm water
is allowed to run off the LAA, contact your Regional Water Board
represen tative to discuss wastewater disinfection requirements .
2.2.10.2.2. Provide a w ater balance that demonstrates adequate
storage/ disposal capacity . Identify the safety factors used in the
calculations . Please contact your Regional Water Board
representative to determi ne the precipitation values to be
included in the water balance . Typically, the 100- year return
annual total precipitation value, distributed monthly in accordance
with average (mean) precipitation values monthly is required.
Some exemptions for existing ponds or sites that develop an
acceptable Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan may
apply. Rainfall depth duration frequency data is available on the
Department of Water Resources Internet web pag e at:
<http://www.water.ca.gov/floodmgmt/hafoo/hb/csm/engineering/>
2.2.10.2.3. Support the assumptions and calculations in the water balance
with adequate information. Information may include published
infiltration values , site-specific percolation tests , applicatio n rates ,
or other sources . Cite the information source used; if a site -
specific investigation, provide a copy of the report .
2.2.10.2.4. The use of subsurface disposal including leach fields and/or
seepage pits serving more than 20 people, or systems that
accept non- sanitary waste (generated by manufacturing, contains
biocidal agents such as RV or portable toilets, etc.) must comply
with the United States Environmental Protection Agency Underground Injection Control requirements. Please r efer to
General Order Requirement B.6. g and
http://www.epa.gov/region9/ water/groundwater/uic.html
 to
determine if federal requirements apply to the propos ed project.
If registration is required, documentation of registration shall be provided in the ROWD .
2.3. Recycled Water Projects
2.3.1. If treated wastewater will be applied for beneficial uses (such as those
described in title 22 water recycling criteria) , provide a title 22 Engineering
Report and the State Water Board Division of Drinking Water (DDW)
(formerly the California Department of Public Health ( CDPH) review/approval
letter . Guid ance for preparation of a title 22 Engineering Report is available
on the Internet at :
http://www.cdph.ca.gov/certlic/drinkingwater/Documents/Recharge/
ERGUIDE2001.PDF
ATTACHMENT B1 – INFORMATION SHEET B1-5
RECOMMENDED REPORT OF WASTE DISCHARGE FORMAT
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD
ORDER WQ 2014- 0153- DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS


September 23, 2014
 2.3.1.1. Describe how any DDW requirements will be implemented in the
project .
2.3.1.2. If needed, describe the disinfection requirements for the planned reuse.
2.4. Operation and Maintenance
2.4.1. Describe routine operation and maintenance procedures
2.4.2. Treatment operator training and qualifications requir ements
2.4.3. Contingency plans for repairs/spills/treatment issues
3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

