wastewater treatment and disposal.
Sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years. A. log shall be kept of
sludge quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency of entries
is discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis for part of
the annual report.
POND MONITORING
The freeboard shall be monitored on the evaporation/percolation ponds in use to the nearest
tenth foot. Pond water monitoring shall include the following:
Constituent
Freeboard feet 1)pe · of Sample
Observation Sampling
Frequency
Weekly
Permanent markers shall be placed in the pond with calibration indicating the water level at
design capacity and available operational freeboard.
In addition, the Discharger shall inspect the condition of the ponds once per week and write
visual observations in a bound log book. Notations shall include observations of: (1) weed
growth and their location; (2) accumulation of dead algae, vegetation, scum, or debris and
their location; (3) burrowing animals or insects; and (4) the color of the pond (e.g., dark
sparkling green, dull green, yellow, grey, tan, brown, etc.). A copy of the entries made in
the log during each month shall be submitted along with the monitoring report the following
month. Where the O&M manual indicates remedial action is necessary, the Discharger shall
briefly explain in the transmittal what action has been taken or is scheduled to· be taken.
,~':
~{:-_.::· MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
TFJON RANCHCORP
TFJON-GRAPEVINE
KERN COUNTY ()
WATER SUPPLY MONITORING -3-
A sampling station shall be established where a representative sample of the water supply can
be obtained. 1Water supply monitoring shall include at least the following:
Constituents Sampling
Frequency
Electrical
Conductivity @ 25 ° C . µ.mhos/cm Quanerly2
l
2 If the source water is from more than one well, the EC shall be reported as a·
w~ighted average and include copies of supporting calculations.
If water quality is proved to be consistent, sampling frequency may be revised to
annual.
REPORTING
Monthly inonitoring reports shall be submitted to the Board by the 20th day of the following
month.
· In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that
the date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be
summarized in such a manner that illustrates clearly whether the Discharger complies with
waste discharge requirements, including calculation of all averages, etc. ·
If the Discharger monitors any pollutant at the locations designated herein more frequently
than is required by this Order, the results of such monitoring shall be included in the
discharge monitoring report.
The Discharger may also be requested to submit an annual report to the Board with tabular
and graphical summaries of the monitoring data obtained during the previous year. Any such
request shall be made in writing. The report shall discuss .the corrective actions taken and
planed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
By 31 January of each year, the Discharger shall submit a written report to the Executive
Officer containing the following:
(:'\
,.;__~ __
('.
\ '---· MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
TEJON RANCHCORP
TEJON-GRAPEVINE
KERN COUNTY
a. The names, titles, certificate grade (if any) and general responsibilities of persons
operating and maintaining the wastewater treatment plant.
b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the plant for
emergency and routine situations.
c. A certified statement of when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and
. devices were last calibrated, including identification of who did the calibration
(Standard Provision C.4). -4-
d. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and contingency
plan, reflect the wastewater treatment plant as currently constructed and operated, and
the dates these documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
e. The total quantity of sludge disposed of during the previous year and ultimate disposal
site(s).
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements
in Standard Provision B.3.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month
following adoption of this Order. ·
Ordered by, ~L tb. QJ____ . .
IAMB. CROOKS, Executive Officer
8/5/94
(Date)
AV:cjs: 8/5/94
COMMERCIAL
~ .. ~ AREA
(,..-.' ) ) : !
/ / i i
I ' I/ DISPOSAL
/ PONDS
I r · 1 . \ ')I
: . : I
) COMMERCIAL /~ AREA \
'\
\ \/···
~ ... , ....... , / \ .
\ .\
\ \ . \ ,,·"
/
,
ATTACHMENT A
TEJON RANCHCORP
TEJON-GRAPEVINE
KERN COUNTY
SECTION 17, TlON, Rl9W, SBB&M
GRAPEVINE 7.5' U.S.G.S QUAD
.(NOT TO SCALE)
INFORMATION SHEET
ff 1 TFJON RANCHCORP
~.,- ·TFJON-GRAPEVINE
KERN COUNTY
Tejon Ranchcorp operates a wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) northeast of the
interchange on Interstate I-5 at Grapevine in Kem County. The WWTF is regulated by
Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order No. 76-140.
The WDRs prescribe requirements for monthly·average discharge of 22,000 gallons per day
of wastewater from Wm Flag's Restaurant. Currently, the WWTF serves three restaurants,
two service stations, and a car wash.
The Discharger has 87 acres zoned for commercial activity. The Discharger is planning to
increase its commercial activity on the property by adding a hotel, fast food restaurants, and
more service stations to the existing three restaurants, two service stations and car wash.
The Discharger submitted a Report of Waste Discharge in 1991 and additional information in
a letter report dated 11 August 1993. The Discharger proposes to increase the discharge
rate from 22,000 gpd to 235,000 gpd and change the facility name from Wm Flagg's
Restaurant to Tejon-Grapevine.
The WWTF consists of a flowmeter, Parshall flume, and three unlined disposal ponds. The
r.:· total bottom and water surface of the disposal ponds are 4.95 and 6.62 ac, respectively. The
Discharger uses about one-twelfth of the pond area for its current discharge. The Discharger
divided one of the ponds into four cells and the discharge is directed to one of the cells.
Monthly monitoring reports indicate that the average discharge rate from July through
December of 1993 was 52~000 gpd. Wastewater infiltrates or evaporates before the holding
capacity of the cell is exceeded. June 1987 and August 1990 inspection of the WWTF
indicated the depth of wastewater in the cell was less than one foot. The proposed discharge
rate is approximately ten times the discharge rate set in the WDRs. Current disposal
practices show the ponds have sufficient capacity to handle the increased discharge rate.
The W\VTF is on a recent Great Valley fan deposit. Soil is San Emigdio loamy sand. The
parent materials are Mesoroic granitics and Oligocene sediments.
Ground water is found at a depth of approximately 1000 feet below ground surface. Its
electrical conductivities range from 700 to 1000 µmhos/cm. Its direction of flow is to the
north.
The average annual rainfall and evaporation rates in the area are 5 and 64 inches,
respectively.
Surface drainage is to Grapevine Creek, a valley floor water. Beneficial uses of valley water
include industrial and agricultural supply; contact and noncontact recreation; warm water
habitat; wildlife habitat; preservation of rare and endangered species; and ground water
recharge. Grapevine Creek flows only during and shortly after storm events, which are
(-. TEJON RANCHCORP
TEJON-GRAPEVINE
KERN COUNTY INFORMATION SHEET- Continued
infrequent in this arid area. In actuality, the only beneficial uses realized are non-contact
water recreation, wildlife habitat, preservation of rare and endangered species, and ground
water recharge. -2-
· The Tejon Ranchcorp adopted a mitigated negative declaration on 10 January 1991 in
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)(Public Resources Code
Section 21000, et seq.), and the State CEQA Guidelines. The Board has reviewed the
findings and concurs that the project as approved will not have a significant impact on water
~ility. .
AV:cjs: 8/5/94