2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Treatment at the TIWRP consists of wastewater processing, advanced wastewater treatment processing, and biosolids processing. The process flo w diagram of the
TIWRP is depicted in Attachment C.

2.1.2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment:
a. Wastewater Processing – consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and
aerated grit removal), primary treatment (primary sedimentation), secondary treatment (secondary clarification and activated sludge biological treatment), and
tertiary treatment (effluent filtration). Under normal operating conditions, the discharge of the tertiary -treated effluent to the Harbor is not chlorinated.
i. Preliminary Treatment at Headworks – Removes coarse solids (by bar
screening), sand and silt (by grit removal system) from wastewater.
ii. Primary Sedimentation – Removes solids from the wastewater by gravity. The
heavier solids settle and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin. The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids remain in suspension.
iii. Activated Sludge Biological Treatment – Activated sludge consists of
microorganisms that consume non-settleable and dissolved organic contaminants which form a settleable floc.

iv. Secondary Clarification – Removes biological floc from the wastew ater which
then mostly becomes part of the waste sludge. Chemicals such as aluminum sulfate (alum) may be added as part of the treatment process to encourage floc formation and enhance solids removal.

v. Tertiary Treatment – The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream by passing the water through a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the disinfection eff iciency and reliability.

City of Los Angeles ORDER R4-2021- 0095
Terminal Island Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA 0053856
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-9
Adopted: 6/10/2021 b. Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) Processing – consists of a wet
well, a flow equalization basin, microfiltration, sulfuric acid addition, reverse
osmosis, pH stabilization, and UV /AOP disinfection.
i. Microfiltration Feedwater Wet Well – Tertiary treated wastewater is diverted to
this wet well. The effluent to the microfiltration station is pretreated with
sodium hypochlorite and aqua ammonia to prevent biofouling and then fed into automatic self -cleaning 500-micron strainers.

ii. 2 Million Gallon Microfiltration Equalization Tank – This equalization tank is
adjacent to the Microfiltration Feedwater Wet Well and used to adjust the water level of the Microfiltration Feedwater Wet Well .
iii. Microfiltrat ion – The wastewater flow from the wet well is then split into two
parallel trains, containing eighteen (18) parallel Memcor microfiltration units in
total. The microfiltration units are periodically backwashed to clean the
membranes and that backwash is sent back to TIWRP’s headworks for
reprocessing.
iv. Reverse Osmosis (RO) – Prior to entering the RO process train, the pH of the
treated water from the microfiltration units may need to be adjusted with sulfuric acid to protect the RO filters from calcium carbonate precipitation. The
microfiltration filtrate is then fed into two separate RO process trains. Each RO process train has two stages in series and use thin-filmed membranes. Ammonia is added into RO permeate before entering the AOP. The ammonia
is used to reduce bromate formation through AOP .
v. UV/AOP Disinfection – The AOP includes two (2) low -pressure ultraviolet
(UV) irradiation trains and hypochlorous acid addition. The AOP is used to
disinfect RO permeate and destroy some constitue nts of emerging concern
(CECs) that pass through RO membranes due to their low molecular weight and low ionic charge. The treated water from the RO units is additionally disinfected prior to being injected into the Dominguez Gap Seawater Intrusion Barrier or any other permitted reuse.
vi. AWPF Pumping Station – The AOP effluent is stabilized and then distributed
from the AWPF Pumping Station. Sodium hydroxide and calcium chloride are
added in the Stabilization Tank to increase the pH of the AOP effluent to
protect the LADPW’s distribution and injection system. In addition, sodium hypochlorite and aqua ammonia are added to control microorganism growth. Six product water pumps in the Product Water Tank transfer the finished
product water into the distribution system .
c. Biosolids Processing –

i. Land Application – Sludge may be thickened, anaerobically digested,
dewatered, and hauled to either the City’s Green Acres Farm located at Kern County for land application or to a contracted site in Arizona for composting and land application at various locati ons in Arizona and California. However,
the land application option is currently unavailable.
City of Los Angeles ORDER R4-2021- 0095
Terminal Island Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA 0053856
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10
Adopted: 6/10/2021 ii. Deep Well Injection - Project - In 2008, the City and GeoEnvironment
Technologies started the experimental Terminal Island Renewable Energy
(TIRE ) project at the Terminal Island Water Reclamation Plant. TIRE is an
innovative technology to convert biosolids into energy by deep well injection
and geothermal biodegradation. The US EPA permitted the project as an experimental technology. TIRE’s permit al lows for a maximum injection
capacity of 400 dry tons per day of biosolids. Two injection wells and two
monitoring wells have been drilled to a depth of 5, 500 feet. The biosolids are
injected into soft, high porosity, formation sands, using technology opti mized
for slurry injection. Currently, the City is injecting on a daily basis
approximately 248 tons of dry and dewatered biosolids at the TIRE injection
facility :
• All of the Facility’s wet biosolids (up to 274,200 gallons per day containing
approximate ly 73 tons of dry biosolids ); and
• 175 tons of dewatered biosolids trucked from the Hyperion Wastewater Treatment Plant – Seven (7) truck loads per day, each truck deliver ing
approximately 25 tons of dewatered biosolids.

2.2. Discharge P oints and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. Pursuant to Provision 4.c. of Resolution No. 94- 009, and to accommodate the
Port of Los Angeles’ expansion project (2020 Plan) which deepens and widens the
main channels of the Los Angeles Harbor, the TIWRP effluent discharge location
was upgraded to discharge to the Outer Harbor via an 800-foot outfall with a multi -
port diffuser consisting of 100, 4-inch ports to improve initial dilution of the discharge.
2.2.2. The Los Angeles Outer Harbor is the receiving water for the TIWRP discharge
and is part of the Los Angeles/Long Beach Watershed Management Area (WMA)
and Dominguez Channel Watershed. The Los Angeles Harbor has been defined as
an enclosed bay listed in Water Quality Control Plan for Control of Temperature in
the Coastal and Interstate Waters and Enclosed Bays and Estuaries of California (Thermal Plan).
2.2.3. The Los Angeles Harbor is located in the southern portion of the Los Angeles
Basin. Along the northern portion of San Pedro Bay is a natural embayment formed
by a westerly extension of the coastline. It contains the Los Angeles Harbor, with the
Palos Verdes Hills as the dominant onshore feature. Historically, the area consisted
of marshes and mudflats with a large marshy area, Dominguez Slough, to the north,
and flow from the Los Angeles River entering where Dominguez Channel now
drains.
2.2.4. Several locations in the Harbor area, including the Los Angeles and Long Beach
Outer Harbor, have been listed as impaired or sites of concern under the Bay
Protection and Toxic Cleanup Program (BPTCP) du e to benthic community effects,
DDT, PCBs (sediments and tissue), PAHs (sediment), sediment toxicity, and metals
(zinc in tissue samples; zinc, lead, and copper in sediments). T he two areas within
the Harbor that are considered to be toxic hot spots under the BPTCP are the
Dominguez Channel/Consolidated Slip and the Cabrillo Pier area. More detailed
City of Los Angeles ORDER R4-2021- 0095
Terminal Island Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA 0053856
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-11
Adopted: 6/10/2021 information on pollutants in the receiving water of the Los Angeles Harbor is
available in Section 3.4. of this Fact Sheet.
2.3. Summary of Historic Requirements and SMR Data
Table F -2 presents the c ombined brine and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Sludge Blending Tank blends primary sludge and thickened waste activated sludge
before it goes to the anaerobic digesters. The Sludge Blending Tank is currently in a
temporary configuration due to a failure of the center mixing shaft’s drive gearbox . The
Discharger is temporarily using a pump for mixing in this tank until the gearbox is
repaired or replaced. There are currently no planned changes to the treatment system.
3.