existing facility (Title 14, Division 7, Chapter 3, Section
15301). No changes in facilities or operation are proposed.
9. The Regional Board finds that operation of this facility will not have adverse
water quality related effects if operations are conducted in accordance with
prohibitions, specifications, and provisions contained in this Order.
10. The Board has notified the discharger and interested agencies and persons of its
intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for the discharge.
11. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all ccmnents pertaining to
the discharge.
THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 79-54 be
rescinded and that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Sacramento District, shall comply
with the following:
A. DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
1. The discharge of waste to surface waters is prohibited.
2. The discharge of waste to land that is not under the control of the discharger
except as provided for in Provision C.2, is prohibited.
3. The discharge of all wastewater shall be kept underground at all times.
4. An adequate replacement area equivalent to the initial disposal area shall be
reserved at the time of the initial installation of all leachfields.
Incanpatible uses of the initial disposal area and the replacement area are
prohibited.

Order No. 89-40 -3-
5. The discharge of any pollutant not identified and authorized by the waste
discharge requirements or the discharge of any pollutant in a manner or quantity
which differs from that stated in the report of waste discharge is prohibited.
B. DISCHARGE SPECIFICATIONS
1. The average daily wastewater flow shall not exceed 22,400 gallons Per day.
C. DISCHARGE PROVISIONS
1. Neither the treatment nor the disposal of waste shall cause a nuisance or
pollution as defined in Section 13050 of the California Water Code.
2. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall
be disposed of at a legal point of disposal and in accordance with the provisions
of Title 23, Chapter 3, Subchapter 15 of the california Water Code or any point
approved by the Executive Officer.
3. The discharger shall comply with the Contingency Planning and Notification
Requirements, Order No. 74-151, Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 89-40 and
the General Provisions for Monitoring and Reporting and any modifications to
these documents as specified by the Executive Officer. Such documents are
attached to this Order and incorporated herein.
4. The design and installation of the domestic waste disposal system shall be in
compliance with Sonoma County health ordinances and regulations.
5. In the event the discharger is unable to comply with any of the conditions of
this Order due to:
a. breakdown of waste treatment equipnent;
b. accidents caused by human error or negligence; or
c. other causes such as acts of nature;
the discharger shall notify the Executive Officer by telephone as soon as he or
his agents have knowledge of the incident and confinn this notification in
writing within two weeks of the telephone notification. The written notification
shall include pertinent information explaining reasons for the noncompliance and
shall indicate what steps were taken to correct the problem and the dates
thereof, and what steps are being taken to prevent the problem from recurring.
6. This Board requires the discharger to file a report of waste discharge at least
120 days before making any material change or proposed change in the character,
location, or volume of the discharge.
7. The discharger shall pennit the Regional Board:
a. Entry upon premises in which an effluent source is located or in which any
required records are kept;

Order No. 89-40 -4-
b. Access to copy any records required to be kept under tenns and conditions of
this Order;
c. Inspection of monitoring equipnent or records; and
d. Sampling of any discharge.
8. The discharger shall maintain in good working order and operate as efficiently as
possible any facility or control system installed by the discharger to achieve
canpliance with the waste discharge requirements.
9. The requirements prescribed herein do not authorize the conmission of any act
causing injury to the property of another, nor protect the discharger from his
liabilities under federal, state, or local law.
10. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facilities presently owned or controlled by the discharger, the discharger shall
notify the succeeding owner or operator of the existence of this Order by letter,
a copy of Which shall be forwarded to this Board.
Certification
I, Benjamin D. Kor, Executive Officer, do
hereby certify that the foregoing is a full,
true, and correct copy of an Order adopted by
the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board, North Coast Region, on April 26, 1989.
Benjamin D. Kor
Executive Officer

california Regional Water Quality Control Board
North Coast Region
MONITORING ANDREPORTING PROGRAM NO. 89-40
FOR
UNITEDSTATES ARMY CORPSOF ENGINEERS
WARM SPRINGSDAM RECREATION AREA
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREA'lMENT ANDDISPOSAL SYSTEM
Sonoma County
MONITORING
1. Waste Volume
The discharger shall measure and record daily the volume of waste discharged to the
waste facilities.
2. Disposal Field Inspections
a. The discharger shall inspect the disposal field monthly and shall note and record
any odors, evidence of surfacing wastewater or other signs of malfunction.
b. The discharger shall inspect all wet wells and pumps monthly and shall record the
maintenance provided to them.
3. Septic Tank Inspection
The discharger shall inspect the septic tank(s) annually to determine the need for
pumping. When the level of solids in any tank is equal to or in excess of one third
of the total depth of the tank, the tank shall be pumped.
4. Groundwater Monitoring
a. The discharger shall measure and record the elevation of water in all monitoring
wells on a weekly basis. Reference datum shall be ground surface at the well.
b. The discharger shall sample any standing water in the wells for analysis of the
following:
Constituents
Total Coliform
Fecal Coliform
Nitrate NitrogenMPN/100 ml
MPN/100 ml
mg/1Sampling Frequency
monthly
monthly
monthly

MONITORING AND REPORTING
PROGRAM NO. 89-40 -2-
REPORTING
The discharger shall submit monthly monitoring reports to the Regional Board by the 15th
day of the following month. The report shall include all items specified above and the
dates on which IOOnitoring or inspection was performed.
In addition to the above, the discharger shall have all flow measuring devices tested
annually and their accuracy certified. This certification shall be submitted annually
with the roonitoring report for the IOOnth of August.
Ordered by. _
Benjamin D. Kor
Executive Officer
April 26, 1989

CalifoI'llia leg100al Vater()alitJ Control 1b....•
~ Coat Jea1a
~ PlANNIJ«; AND!CI'IFICAnC14 ~
FeR
AD.::ImrrAL SPIllS ANDD~
<JUD 11). 74-151
The California Regional Water~ty Control Boerd, Korth Coast Region, finds that:
1. Section 13225 of the Porter~logne Water ~ty Control Act requires the
Regional Board to perfoI1l general duties to assure positive water quality
control.
2. The Regional Boardhas been advised of situations in which preparations for, and
response to accidental discharges and spills have been inadequate.
3.Persons discharging wste or conveying, supplying, storing, or mnaging wstes or
hazardous materials have the prinary responsibility for contingency planning,
incident reporting and continuous and diligent action to abate the effects of
such tmintentional or accidental discharge.
'IHERffORE, ITISHEREBY OODERED 1mT:
I. All persons who discharge wastes or convey, supply, store, or otherwise manage
,,"astes or other hazardous material shall:
A. Prepare and suOOd t to this Regional Board, according to a time schedule
prescribed by the Executive Officer, a contingency plan defining the folloving:
1. Potential locations and/or cllcunstanees under which accidental discharge
incidents might be expected to occur,
2. Possible water quality effects of accidental discharges,
3. The conceptual plan for cleanup and abatement of accidental discharge
incidents, including:
a. The individual ..mo will be in charge of cleanup and abatement
activities on behalf of the discharger.
b. The equir.mentand Ill3.Ilpo'«el" available to the discharger to implement the
cleanupand abatement plans,
B. Irrmediate1y report to the Regional Boardany accidental discharge incidents.
Such notification shall be IIEdeby telephone as soon as the responsible person
or his agent has kn~ledge of the incident.

Order No. 74-1~1 -2-
I
C.Ianediately begin diliaent and continuous actioo to cl~ and abate the
effects of any unintentional oraccidental discharge. Such actioo shall
include temporary measures to abate the dUc.harge prior to canpleting
permanent repairS to ~ecI fec:.1llties.
D. Confira the te1ephoae DOt:1ficatiOil in writin& within two -weeks of the
telephcDe DOtific.atiOD. 1he written notific.atiOD shall include: reasons
for the discharge, duratiOll and voltDe of the discharge, steps taken to
correct the problem and neps be:ina taken to prevent the problem frea
recUIT'in&. •
II. Upon original receipt· of phone report (I.B), the Executive Officer shall
imDediately notify all affected agencies and knownusers of 'Waters affected by the
unintentional or ac.c.idental discharge.
Ill. Provide updated information to the Regional Board in the event of change of staff,
size of the facility, or change of operating procedures 'Whichvi1l affect t..~e
previously established contingency plan.
IV. The Executive Officer or his employees shall maintain liaison \lith the disc.harger
and other affected agencies and persons to provide assistance in cleanup and
abat~t activities.
V. The Executive Officer shall transmit copies of this Order to all persons •.hose
discharges of waste handling activities are governed by Waste Discharge
Requirements or an NPDES Pennit. Suchtransmittal shall include a current listing'
of telephcne DUlDbersof the Executive Officer and his key employees to facilitate
compliance 'WithItem LB of this Order.
Ordered by
~~:.xecuuve Officer
July 24, 1974
(Retyped January, 1986)
Your primary nowica':ioo should be to the Regional Beard office at Santa Rosa at (707)
576-2220. Dur'..J1g off hours, you v.ill be able to leave a recorded ;nes~.3geat tr.at nUffiDer
and. ifyou have a spill or disw'large E!:Jergency.you 'w'il1 also be ref erred to :heState
Office of Emergency Se..rvices (Or:s) at (fO)) 852-75~. ~ aaintains a roster of key
er::lployees a'1d'Jill relay your notificatioo to Regional Board staff.

California Regional Water Quality Control Board
North Coast Region
GENERAL MONITORING AND REPORTING PROVISIONS
February 3, 1971
(Retyped July, 1982)
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS
Unless otherwise noted, all sampling, sample preservation, and analyses shall be conducted·
in accordance with the current edition of flStandard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Waste Waterfl or
approved by the Executive Officer.
All analyses shall be performed in a laboratory certified to perform such analyses by
the California State Department of Health or a laboratory approved by the Executive
.Officer. .
All samples shall be representative of the waste discharge under the conditions of peak
load. .
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR REPORTING
For every item where the requirements are not met, the discharger shall submit a
statement of the actions tmdertaken or proposed which will bring the discharge into
full compliance with requirements at the earliest time and submit a timetable for
correction.
By January 30 of each year, the discharger shall submit an annual report to the regional
board. The report shall contain· both tabular and graphical summaries of the monitoring.
data obtained during the previous year. In addition, the discharger shall discuss the
compliance recor9 and the corrective actions taken or planned which may be needed
to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
The discharger shall file a written report within 90days. after the average dry-weather
flow for any month that equals or exceeds 75 percent of the design capacity of the
. waste treatment or disposal facilities. The report shall contain a schedule for studies,
design, and other steps needed to provide additional capacity or limit the flow below
the design capacity prior to the time when the waste flow rate equals the capacity of
the present units.