wastewater
treatment and disposal.
2. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency and
routine situations.
3. A statement certifying when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were last
calibrated, including identification of who performed the calibration (Standard Provision C.4).
4. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and contingency plan, reflect
the wastewater treatment facility as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these
documents were last reviewed for adequacy.
5. The results of an annual evaluation conducted pursuant to Standard Provision E.4 and a figure
depicting monthly average discharge flow for the past five years.
6. The most recent City of Wasco annual water supply report.
7. A summary of grouncj.water monitoring in a format (both printed and electronic) selected in
concurrence with Regional Board staff, including
a. Hydrographs showing the groundwater elevation in approved wells for at least the previous
five years or to the extent that such data are available, whicliever'is·fewer. The hydrographs
should show grounc;lwater elevation with respect to the elevations of the top and bottom of
the screened interval and be presented at a scale of values appropriate to show trends or
variations in groundwater elevation. The scale for the background plots shall be the same as
that used to plot downgradient elevation data;
b. Graphs of the laboratory analytical data for samples taken from approved wells within at least
the previous five calendar years (as data become available). Each such graph shall plot the
concentration of one or more waste constituents specified above selected in concurrence with
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY -9-
Regional Board staff. The graphs shali piot each datum, rather than plotting mean values,
over time for a given monitoring well, at a scale appropriate to show trends or variations in
water quality. For any given constituent, the scale for the background plots shall be the same
as that used to plot downgradient data.
c. All monitoring analytical data obtained during the previous four quarterly reporting periods,
presented in tabular form, as well as on 3 .5" computer diskette.
8. A summary of sludge monitoring, including
a. Annual sludge production in dry tons and percent solids.
b. A schematic diagram showing sludge handling facilities and solids flow diagram.
c. A description of disposal methods, including the following information related to the disposal
methods used at the WWTF. If more than one method is used, include the percentage of
annual sludge production disposed of by each method.
1. Forlandfill disposal, include: (a) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the
landfill(s) used, (b) the present classifications of the landfill(s) used, and (c) the names
and locations of the facilities receiving sludge.
11. For land application, include: (a) the locations of the site(s), and (b) the Order
numbers of any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
iii. For incineration, include: (a) the names and location of the site(s) where sludge
incineration occurs, (b) the Order numbers of WDRs that regulate the site(s), (c) the
disposal method of ash, and (d) the names and locations of facilities receiving ash (if
. applicable).
iv. For composting, include: (a) the location of the site(s), and (b) the Order numbers of
· any WDRs that regulate the site(s).
9. A summary of all recycled water operations for the previous water year (i.e., from October through
September). The summary shall discuss total monthly water application; total wastewater recycled
annually; total nutrient loading annually from applied wastewater, biosolids, and chemical
fertilizers; and total estimated amount of nutrients removed through crop harvest. The summary
shall also review the use area management plan (described in Provision G.10) and make
recommendations regarding continuation or modification of the plan. In short, the summary shall
present a mass balance relative to constituents of concern and hydraulic loading along with
supporting data and calculations.
10. A summary and discussion of the compliance record for the reporting period. If violations have
occurred, the report shall also discuss the corrective actions taken and planned to bring the
discharge into full compliance with this Order.
MONITORrnG AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY -10-
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.
jay/jlk: 10/18/2002 .a(\ R·O
Ordered by: r ~'.L l ~~fi
THOMAS R. PINKOS, Executive Officer
18 October 2002
(Date)
LEGEND
N
0 i 1/2 e;;•.-
MILES
SMW-2 MONITORING WELL /.
f
I
i )fil'l_ ...
,, ............
)
( wi:
\
\
A-e~~~
----···· \!" Rtllli!l,Nt:irlW,\
ATTACHMENT A
ViCINITY MAP
TENTATIVE WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CINOFWASCO
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILIN
KERN COUNN
SECTIONS 9, 16, AND 17, T27S, R24E, MDB&M
BUTTONWILLOW 7 .5' USGS QUADRANGE . ..-·\.
SLUDGE RETURN r---------------~--------------------1 . I
I SUPERNATANT I
------~ ------------ LUDGE DRYIN I I I -I I r ---- BEDS (4) I
I I I I
1 I SLUDGE 1
I I I I
t t ~ .,.--.....,. .--J
i'NFLUEN~ I )I I ) 7HEADWORKS
CHAMBER
INFLUENT PRIMARY
CLARIFIERS(2) TRICKLING
FILTERS(2) SECONDARY
CLARIFIERS(2
SAMPLING
STATION USE AREA
450 AC. FARMLAND
'DESERT AREA'
DISPOSAL POND
DISPOSAL PONDS (3) EFFLUENT .....
RECYCLED WATERSAMPLING STATION ---=-=,-:-~~--------=~( STORAGE
PONDS (3
EXCESS
WASTEWATER
ATTACHMENT B
FLOW DIAGRAM
TENTATIVE WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
ATTACHMENT C
SYMBOL FOR RECYCLE WATER SIGNS
-WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUJREM:ENTS ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
FOR
CITY OF WASCO
WASTEWATER TREATJvIBNT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
A TTACHNIENT.D
INFORMATION NEEDS FOR SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
A. Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF)
1. Describe treatment processes at the wastewater treatment facility.
2. List significant industrial users (Sills) that discharge to the wastewater treatment fadlity and
describe how Sills affect sludge production, sludge handling, and biosolids disposal.
3. ~ndicate whether the WWTF has an adopted source control ordinance or a pretreatment
program, and if the latter whether the program is approved by the Regional Board.
4. Indicate whether WWTF accepts septage and, if so, describe septage handling operation
facilities.
5. Provide a ·wwTF site map showing:
a. existing sludge handling facilities (e.g., sludge drying beds and sludge storage areas)
b. abandoned sludge handling facilities (if applicable)
c. location of groundwater monitoring wells, if any, and groundwater gradient.
B. Sludge Production
1. Provide a schematic diagram showing solids flow and sludge handling operations; include,
where applicable, supernatant flow and handling operations.
2. Specify the quantity of sludge expected to annually accumulate in each wastewater treatment
process, how it is quantified, and the exp~cted removal frequency.
3. For sludge handling facilities with sludge drying beds:
a. Describe number and size of sludge drying beds.
b. Describe sludge drying bed construction (e.g., liner construction and design hydraulic
conductivity, collection systems for leachate_ and/or decant).
c. Describe leachate and/or decant treatment and disposal.
d. If sludge drying beds are not lined, thoroughly describe measures taken to ensure that area
groundwater is not adversely affected by sludge drying operations.
e. Indicate the expected frequency with which sludge will be applied to and removed from
sludge drying beds.
4. Describe how biosolids are transferred to onsite biosolids storage facility (if applicable). If
biosolids are removed directly from sl11:dge drying beds, provide a plan that indicates when
biosolids are disposed of and confinn that the entity responsible for biosolids disposal will be
able to remove and dispose of biosolids at the scheduled time.
WDRs ORDER NO. R5-2002-0198
ATTACHJ\1ENT D
Information Needs for Sludge
Management Plan
C. Biosolids Characterization -2-
1. Describe proposed sampling procedures by indicating number of samples, sample locations,
and sample composition. For reference consult POTW Sludge Sampling an Analysis
Guidance Document, published by the EPA Publication No. 833-B-89-100 ..
2. Thoroughly describe the methods proposed to meet the necessary levels of pathogen
reduction (i.e., Class A or B according to 40 CPR 503.32) for the proposed method of sludge
disposal. ·
3. Describe the methods proposed to meet vector reduction requirements, in accordance with
40 CPR Part 503.33.
D. Biosolids Storage
l. If on~site biosolids storage is used,
a. Describe:
1. Size of biosolids storage area
11. How frequently it will be used (emergency basis only or routine use)
111. Typical storage duration
iv. Leachate controls
v. Erosion controls
vi. Run-on/runoff controls
b. Indicate measures that will be taken to ensure that area groundwater is not adversely
affected by the biosolids storage facility.
c. For biosolids storage facilities that contain biosolids between 1 October and 30 April,
describe how facilities are designed and maintained to prevent washout or inundation
from a storm or flood whh a return frequency of 100 years.
d. Provide a map of showing setback distances from (where applicable)
i. Property lines
ii. Domestic water supply wells
iii. Non-Domestic water supply wells
1v. Public roads and occupied onsite residences
v. Surface waters, including wetlands, creeks, ponds, lakes, underground aqueducts,
and marshes
vi. Primary agricultural drainage ways
vii. Occupied non-agricultural buildings and off-site residences
WDRs ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
ATTACHMENTD
Information Needs for Sludge
Management Plan
viii. Primary tributary to a waterway or reservoir used for domestic water supply
ix. Domestic surface water supply intake
E. Spill Response Plan
1. Emergency contacts and notification procedures
2. Personal protective equipment requirements
3. Response instructions for
a. spill during biosolids transport
b. storage facility failure
c. when hazardous or other unauthorized material is found
F. Method of Disposal -3-
1. Describe and provide the following information related to biosolids disposal method(s). If
more than one method will be utilized, include the percentage of annual biosolids production
expected to be disposed of by each method.
a. Landfill Disposal
i. Name(s) and location(s) of landfill(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional Board that
regulate the landfill(s).
iii. Present classification of the landfill(s).
iv. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the landfill(s).
b. Incineration
i. Name(s) and location(s) of incineration site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional Board that
regulate the incineration site(s).
iii. Method of disposal of ash from the incineration site(s).
iv. Names and locations of facilities receiving ash fromJhe_i:r::i~ineration site(s), if
applicable.
v. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the incineration site(s).
c. Composting
i. Name(s) and location(s) of composting site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional Board that
regulate the composting site(s).
WDRs ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
ATT ACHJvIBNT D
Information Needs for Sludge
Management Plan (~
iii. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the composting site(s). -4-
d. Land Application
1. Ownership of the site(s) where biosolids are applied.
ii. Assessor Parcel Numbers (APNs) of site(s) where biosolids are applied.
111. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional Board that
regulate the biosolids application site(s). __ ·
WASTE DISCHARGE REQU1REN.IENTS ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
CITY OF WASCO
KERN COUNTY
ATTACHlVIENT E
ST AND ARD MONITORING WELL PROVISIONS
Prior to installation of groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall subniit a work plan
containing at least the information specified in this document. Wells may be installed after the
Executive Officer's approval of the work plan. Upon installation of the monitoring wells, the Discharger
shall submit a report of results, as described below. A registered geologist, certified engineering
geologist, or civil engineer registered or certified by the State of California must sign all work plans and
reports.
Monitoring Well Installation Workplan
A. General Information:
Monitoring well locations and rationale
Survey details
Equipment decontamination procedures
Health and safety plan
Topographic map showing any existing monitoring wells, proposed wells, waste handling facilities,
utilities, and other major physical and man-made features.
B. Drilling Details: describe drilling and logging methods
C. Monitoring Well Design:
Casing diameter
Borehole diameter
Depth of surface seal
Well construction materials
Diagram of well construction
D. Well Development:
Method of development to be used Type of well cap
Size of perforations and rationale
Grain size of sand pack and rationale
Thickness and position of bentonite seal and sand pack
Depth of well, length and position of perforated interval
Method of determining when development is complete
Method of development water disposal
E. Surveying Details: discuss how each well will be surveyed to a common reference point
\VDRs ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
ATTACIDvIBNT E .
Standard Monitoring Well Provisions for
Waste Discharge Requirements
F. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Cuttings disposal method
Analyses to be run and methods
Sample collection and preservation method
Intervals at which soil samples are to be collected
G. Well Sampling: Number of soil samples and rationale
Location of soil samples and rationale
QA/QC procedures
Minimum time after development before sampling (48 hours)
Well purging method and amount of purge water
Sample collection and preservation method
QA/QC procedures
H. Water Level Measurement: -2~
The reference point and ground surface elevations at each monitoring well shall be determined within
0.01 foot. Method and time of water level measurement shall be specified.
I. Proposed time schedule for work.
Monitoring Well Installation Report of Results
A. Well Construction:
Number and depth of wells drilled
Date(s) wells drilled
Description of drilling and construction
Approximate locations relative to WWTF and discharge area(s)
A well construction diagram for each well containing the following details:
Monitoring well number
Location Depth to top of bentonite seal 1
Thickness of bentonite seal
Date drilled Thickness of concrete grout
Total depth drilled1 Boring diameter
Depth of open hole 1' 2 Casing diameter
Footage of hole collapsed Casing material
Length of slotted casing installed Size of perforations -·
Depth of bottom of casing1 Well elevation at top of casing
Depth to top of sand pack1 Date of water level measurement
Number of bags of sand Depth to which water was first found1
_T_h_ic_kn_e_ss_o_f_s_a_n_d_._p_a_ck _______ Depth to which water was found after perforating 1
1 From ground surface
2 Same as total depth if no caving appears
WDRs ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
ATTACHNIENT E
Standard Monitoring Well Provisions for
Waste Discharge Requirements
B. Well Development:
Date(s) of development pf each well
Method of development ·
Volume of water purged from well
How well development completion was determined
Method of effi.u~nt disposal
Field notes from well development should be included in report
C. Well Surveying: provide for each well -3-
Reference elevation (feet above mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
Ground surface elevation (feet above mean sea level to within 0.01 foot)
Hor.izontal geodetic location, where the point of beginning shall be described by the California State
Plane Coordinate System, 1983 datum
Surveyor's notes
D. Water Sampling:
Date(s) of sampling
How well was purged
How many well volumes purged
Levels of temperature, EC, and pH at stabilization
Sample collection, handling, and preservation methods
E. Soil Sampling (if applicable):
Date(s) of sampling
Sample collection, handling, and preservation method
Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Laboratory analytical data sheets Sample identification
Analytical methods used
Labo.ratory analytical data sheets
Water level elevation(s)
Groundwat(;!r contour map
Month
October
November
December
Subtotal:
January
February
March
Subtotal:
April
May
June
Subtotal:
July
August
September
Subtotal:
Annual Total: WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
ATIACHMENT F
RECOMMENDED USE AREA REPORT FORM
City of Wasco Use Area Monitoring Data
For Year:
Parcel No. ( of acres)(Separate report for each crop/parcel)
Water application Nitrogen application
Water Recycled Other water Total As recycled Total
irrigation As fertilizer nitrogen required water used used water* water applied
Crop (ac-ft/ac) (ac-ft/ac) (ac-ft/ac) (ac-ft/ac) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre) (lbs/acre)
..
* calculated as (ac-ft recycled water/acre) x (2.72) x (X mg/1 nitrate-nitrogen)= lbs nitrogen/acre
Comments:
I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this
document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining
the information, I believe that the information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprsonment.
Submitted By:
(Signature and Date)
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. R5-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO
WASTEWATER TREATJ\1ENT FAC1LITY
KERN COUNTY
Background
City of Wasco owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facility (WWTF) that
provides sewerage service for about 19,000 residents. The WWTF is on it:, Street about 1.5 miles west
of Wasco and covers about 645 acres (Assessor Parcel Numbers 487-140-24, 487-140-52, 487-180-01,
487-200-04, and 487-200-06). The Discharger submitted a report of waste discharge (RWD) on
31 October 1997 to expand the WWTF to 3.0 mgd. The Dis.charger initiated construction of the
expansion in October 1998 and completed construction in July 1999. The WWTF currently consists of
headworks with one mechanical bar ~creen and a flow meter, aerated grit chamber, two primary
clarifiers, two plastic media filters, two final clarifiers, two smaller bentonite-lined aerated ponds and
one large (25 acre) unlined storage pond, three anaerobic sludge digesters, four sludge drying beds, three
15-acre disposal ponds and an 115-acre disposal pond on 160 acres of City-owned land referred to as the
"Desert Area," and the City-owned 450-acre farmland. Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order
No. 91-230, adopted by the Regional Board on 22 November 1991, prescribes requirements for the
monthly average daily dry weather discharge of 1.95 million gallons per day (mgd) of treated wastewater
to an unlined storage·pond, and recycling on the City's 450-acre farmland (hereafter Use Area). Order
No. 91-230 does not reflect the configuration of the current WWTF.
The Discharger assumed respon.sibilities of the WWTF when the Wasco Public Utilities District
(WPUD) merged with the City of Wasco on 1 July 1989. WPUD constructed the WWTF in 1977 and
expanded/upgraded the WWTF in 1988. The City expanded the WWTF again in 1998. Of the treatment
units, only one of the anaerobic digesters remains from the original construction. All others, including
the appurtenant facilities such as administrative building, which houses the laboratory, have been
constructed since 1988. Self-monitoring reports indicate current flows average about 1.8 mgd. Winter
flows do not significantly differ from summer flows.
The Discharger dries its anaerobically digested sludge in unlined drying beds. In the past, the Discharger
disposed of WWTF biosolids on its Use Area as soil amendment for crops grown by a tenant farmer.
However, the Discharger has not disposed of biosolids for at least the last four years and has it
stockpiled on-site. The Discharger proposes to continue disposing of biosolids, including the existing
stockpile, on its Use Area in the future.
The Discharger prepared an Irrigation Managenient Plan, July 2000 (DY.IP) and performed a water
balance to satisfy a requirement in WDRs Order No. 91-230. From the water balance, the required
storage capacity is 457 ac-ft for disposal of 3.0 mgd. The current storage capacity of the storage and
disposal ponds is 450 ac-ft. The Discharger has proposed to raise the berm around the 115-acre disposal
pond in the "Desert Area" by 3 feet to provide the required storage capacity, but has not completed this
work as yet.
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY -2-
When the Discharger proposed construction of the berm for the 115-acre disposal pond is completed,
and based on the IMP data for a discharge limit of 3.0 mgd, a percolation rate of 0.15 inches/day, and an
evaporation rate of 49 inches per year (adjusted for the 100-year return storm precipitation), effluent
disposal by recycling in the Use Area and percolation and evaporation losses in the storage and disposal
ponds annually, and percentage of disposal by each method, are as follows: ·
Disposal
Condition
At Maximum
Capacity
At 3.0 mgd
Discharge
Limit
At 3.0 mgd
Discharge
Limit Effluent
Flow1
ac-ft
3096
3096
3096 Recycling in
Use Area
ac-ft
1806
1806
58% Percolation Evaporation Total
Losses Losses Disposal
ac-ft ac-ft ac-ft
867 777 3450
650 640 3096
21% 21% 100%
· The IlvIP uses a maximum monthly daily flow of 3.0 mgd and the monthly flow pattern for 1998.
Therefore, the maximum permitted discharge is less than 3 .0 mgd x 365 days/year
(3,350 ac-ft/year).
The IMP and the table above indicate that the actual total disposal capacity by all three methods is
3450 ac-ft/year, which means that there is excess disposal capcity of 354 ac-ft/yr. The table estimates
the percentage for the different disposal methods based on disposal of the actual effluent flow.
The Discharger has been recycling effluent from the.WWTF on about 390 acres of the 450-acre Use
Area with authorization from the Regional Board in Order No. 91-230. To dispose of 3.0 mgd, the
Discharger proposed to expand irrigation in the Use Area f~om 39Q acres to at least 445 acres. The
Discharger has proposed to do this by converting 55.5 acres of alfalfa from fresh water irrigation to
recycled water irrigation.
The Discharger in its IMP has characterize.ct the WWTF effluent total nitrogen to be 14 mg/L. Using. the
IMP's average irrigation rate of 4.15.f~--tar,the average nitrogen loading is 158 lbs/acre/year. The
highest irrigation and nitrogen loading rate is on alfalfa with 6.2 feet an.d...840 lbs/acre per year,
respectively. The lowestrnte is on blackeye beans at 3.2 feet and 121 lbs/acre.per year, respectively.
Both the hydraulic and nitrogen loadings appear not to exceed agronomic demand except for the nitrogen
loading for blackeye beans, which exceeds the nitrogen demand of 100 lbs/acre/year by 21 lbs/acre/year.
Howe':'er, the Discharger indicates that the area pla_nted with blackeye beans will be double cropped,
which should reduce the nitrogen loading to levels not in excess of agronomic demand.
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY
Compliance History -3-
Regional Board staff conducted two inspections of the WWTF in the last three years -on 28 October
1999 with a resultant Notice of Violation (NOV) issued on 1 February 2000 and 14 November 2001 with
a resultant NOV issued on 3 December 2001. The 1 February 2000 NOV cited the Discharger far failure
to preclude public access to the disposal ponds, failure to maintain a dissolved oxygen concentration of
1.0 mg/I in ponded wastewater, and failure to dispose of sludge in a timely manner consistent with
Title 27, CCR. The 3 December 2001 NOV cited the Discharger for using an uncertified laboratory for
sample analyses.
The Discharger has ·corrected all the cited violations except for disposal of its stockpiled biosolids. The
Discharger indicated by letter dated 4 January 2002 t~at it intends to dispose of the biosolids by
15 March 2002. By letter dated 28 March 2002, the Discharger indicated that it had not disposed of the
biosolids as yet and that it is working on the permit to dispose of it in the Use Area.
Order No. 91-230 requires the Discharger to submit an engineering report to the California Department
of Health Services (DHS) pursuant to Title 22, California Code of Regulations (CCR), section 60323.
The Discharger did not submit the Title 22 Engineering Report. Regional Board letter dated
3 December 2001 requested the Discharger to submit the Title 22 Engineering Report by 5 March 2002.
Receiving no response, staff by Regional Board letter dated 3 April 2002 requested the Discharger to
submit the report by 18 April 2002. By letter dated 18 April 2002, the Discharger requested a 60-day
extension of the due date to 18 June 2002. The Discharger finally submitted the delinquint report on
1 August 2002. The report is under review by Regional Board staff and DHS.
Title 22 restricts uses of recycled water for the different levels of treatment. For undisinfected secondary
recycled water, recycled water is restricted to fodder or fiber crops and food crops that undergo
commercial pathogenic destroying process. The Discharger's tenant frumer grows blackeye beans that
may be a food crop. By letter dated 3 July 2002, the Discharger's tenant farmer certified that the
blackeye bean crops were used for seed only and not for human consumption. DHS reviewed the
certification and, by letter dated 9 July 2002, indicated that the certification alone was insufficient to
ensure that the crops would not be used for human consumption; DHS further indicated that the Title 22
requirements for crop use must be clearly described in the Title 22 engineering repmi and included as a
provision in the WDRs.
Expansion
As previously stated, the City expanded the WWTF to a treatment capacity of 3.0 mgd pursuant to its
31 October 1997 RWD. The Discharger submitted certification of the treatment capacity expansion
project completion to State Board. By State Board letter dated.23 July 2001, the Division of Clean
Water Programs approved the Discharger's 17 July 2001 "Certificate of Performance for Publicly
Owned Treatment Works" and its 6 July 2001 Project Performance Certification report. The description
of the WWTF reflects the facility after the expansion.
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY
Groundwater Conditions -4-
Regional groundwater flows northwesterly and the depth of water occurs about 200 feet below ground
surface (bgs), according to information in Lines of Equal Elevation of Water in Wells in Unconfined
Aquifer, published by the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) in Spring 1997. Soils in
the WWTF vicinity and Use Area are classified as sand loam, fine sand loam, and clay loam according
to the U. S Natural Resources Conservation Service. The soils are well drained and exhibit rapid
infiltration rates as demonstrated by the Discharger in a simply percolation test in the summer of 2000,
which indicated the percolation rate of the soil to be about 0.25 feet per day.
In June 1999, the Discharger installed three groundwater monitoring wells in the vicinity of the WWTF
and Use Area in June 1999 as shown in Attachment A. Well elevations ranged from 278 -295 feet
mean sea level (msl) and groundwater elevations ranged from from 209 to 219 feet msl. Screened
intervals ranged from 20 -40 feet straddling the groundwater table. The Discharger did not comply with
Order No. 91-230 to collect 12 monthly samples from these wells after installation and, after being
reminded of this requirement, has collected only four samples from these monitoring wells thus far. The
table below reflects the data from th~se four samples.
Constituent Units MW-1 MW-2 MW-3
'~?~~'•,,_,.
Average Depth to GW Feet 83 76 58
Average GW Elevation Feet msl1 209 219 219
N03-N mg/L 4.7 3.1 6.9
Total N mg/L 6.4 4.1 8.1
EC µmhos/c 813 587 826
m
TDS mg/L 510 374 603
Chloride mg/L 35 39 52
Calcium mg/L 105 57 74
Sodium mg/L 62 61 129
Boron mg/L 0.15 <0.10 0.20
Mean sea level
2 Below ground surface
Since the data reflects results from only one to four samples (not all constituents were tested for in all
four samples) from each well, characterization of the groundwater quality is premature. Regional Board
by letter dated 17 December 2001 requested the Discharger to collect and analyze groundwater samples
from the three recently installed monitoring wells twice-monthly for six months (until June 2002). The
Discharger is currently collecting the data.
The Discharger, in its Revised Groundwater Assessment Report, 27 April 2001 and confirmed by letter
dated 7 December 2001, proposes to install three additional monitoring wells -two in the WWTF area
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY -5-
and one in the Use Area -but has not completed the installation as yet. After collecting the sampling
data indicated above, the Discharger will re-evaluate, and resubmit, the proposed locations of the three
wells for Regional Board approval.
Land Use Near the Facility
Land Use in the WWTF and Use Area vicinity is primarily agricultural, although ther~ are a state prison,
a golf course and a cemetery within one-half mile. Crops grown within a one-mile radius of the WWTF
include cotton, corn, sugar beets, artichokes, beans (dry), carrots, flowers, alfalfa, grain crops, almonds,
walnuts, pistachios and oranges according to DWR land use data published in 1998. Most crops in this
area are flood irrigated, although some are sprinkler, micro-sprinkler, or drip irrigated, according to the
University of California Cooperative Extension.
The state prison indicated above is the Wasco State Prison. It is directly west of the Discharger's
disposal ponds and occupies almost all of Section 8, T27S, R24E, MDB&M as shown on Attachment A.
The prison is surrounded by its WWTF to the south and use area to the west and north. WDRs Order
No. 90-217 regulates the prison's WWTF. According to the prison's 2001 annual report to the Regional
Board, the prison treated about 278 million gallons (853 ac-ft) of wastewater in 2001 (0.76 mgd). The
prison applied an estirnJtt,~c;:l 1023 ac-ft of effluent and 6.09 ac-ft of groundwater on 296 acres of alfalfa.
The one sample taken ofihe effluent indicated that totaf nitrogen is about 18 mg/L. Total nitrogen from
wastewater applied to the crops is 169 lbs/ac/yr. An additional 200 tons of biosolids with a total
nitrogen concentration of 3700 mg/kilogram (1480 lbs of nitrogen) were applied to crops and non­
farmed areas. Highest nitrogen loading from wastewater and biosolids is about 243 lbs/ac/yr in about 10
acres of crop, much less than the nitrogen uptake rate of 480 lbs/ac/yr for alfalfa. Order No. 90-217 does
not require groundwater monitoring. Therefore, there is insufficient data to determine the impact on
groundwater of the combined discharges from the prison and the City of Wasco.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and Regulatory Considerations
The WWTF is in the North Kern Hydrologic Area of the South Valley Floor Hydrologic Unit of the
Tulare Lake Basin. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition (Basin
Plan), designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation plans
and policies for all waters of the Basin. Beneficial uses often determine the water quality objectives that
apply to a water body. For example, waters designated as municipal and domestic supply must meet the
maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for drinking waters. The Basin Elan §ets forth the applicable
groundwater beneficial uses (industrial service, industrial process, agricultural, and munipal and
domestic supplies in this instance), the procedure for application of water quality objectives, and the
process for and factors to consider in allocating waste assimilation capacity.
There are no surface waters close by the WWTF. Surface water drainage in the area is by sheet flow to
natural or manmade drainage ways then to the valley floor or Tulare Lake as there is no recognized
surface water close by the WWTF Existing or potential beneficial uses of surface waterways identified
in the Basin Plan for Valley Floor Waters are agricultural supply, industrial service supply, industrial
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY -6-
process supply, water contact recreation, noncontact water recreation, wa...rm freshwater habitat, wildlife
habitat, rare, threatened, or endangered species, and groundwater recharge.
The Basin Plan indicates the greatest long-term problem facing the entire Tulare Lake Basin is
increasing salinity in groundwater, a process accelerated by man's activities and particularly affec_ted by
intensive irrigated agriculture. The Regional Board encourages proactive management of waste streams
by dischargers to control addition of salt through use, and has established an incremental EC limitation
of 500 µmhos/cm as the measure of the maximum permissible addition of salt constituents through use.
A more restrictive limitation on salt constituents added through use is appropriate where necessary to
assure compliance with a groundwater limitation for any constitue1:t established by the Regional Board.
Water in the Tulare Lake Basin is in short supply, requiring importation of surface waters from other
parts of the State. The Basin Plan encourages recycling and does not consider disposal by evaporation
and percolation or discharge to surface waters a permanent disposal solution when the potential exists
for recycling. Further, the Basin Plan requires that project reports for new or expanded wastewater
facilities shall include plans for wastewater recycling or the reasons why this is not possible.
The Basin Plan requires that ''Facilities which discharge or are designed to discharge in excess of
1 million gallons per day must provide removal of 80 percent or reduction to 40 mg/L, whichever is
more restrictive, of both 5-dayBOD and suspended solids." -
DRS has established statewide recycling criteria in Title 22, CCR, section 60301 et seq., (hereafter
Title 22), and guidelines for use of recycled water. Revised water recycling criteria, which became
effective on 2 December 2000, expands the range of allowable uses of recycled water, establishes criteria
for these uses, and clarifies some of the ambiguity contained in the existing regulations. Further, the
revised Title 22 requires that all wastewater used for recycling receive, at a minimum, secondary treatment,
The Basin Plan's secondary treatment performance standard meets the Title 22 minimum criteria.
Title 22 section 60304(d) allows for the use of undisinfocted secondary recycled water for prescribed
applications involving certain food and seed crops, subject to various restrictions. Because undisinfected
secondary recycled water would represent a potential public health threat if food or seed crops were directly
or indirectly exposed to the undisinfected recycled water, it is imperative that the restrictions outlined with
the identified uses under section 60304(d). are strictly complied with. If a recycler cannot provide the
necessary assurances that applicable restrictions can be complied with at all times, it is appropriate for the
Regional Board to either require a higher level of treatment (i.e., disinfectiop)_or restrict applications of
undisinfected secondary recycled water to crops not intended for human consumption (e.g., fodder and fiber
crops) and food crops that undergo commercial pathogenic destroying processing.
Antidegradation
In allowing a discharge, the Regional Board must comply with ewe _section 13263 in setting appropriate
conditions. The Regional Board is required, relative to the groundwater that may be affected by the
discharge, to implement the Basin Plan and consider the beneficial uses to be protected along with the
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. RS-2002-0198
CITY OF WASCO WWTF
KERN COUNTY -7-
water quality .objectives essential for that purpose. The Regional Board need not authorize the full
utilization of the waste assimilation capacity of the groundwater (CWC section 13263(b)) but must
consider other waste discharges and factors that affect that capacity. The Basin Plan establishes the
beneficial uses for area groundwater as municipal and domestic supply, agricultural supply, industrial
service supply, industrial process supply. Procedures for application of water quality objectives to protect
these uses, and the process for and factors to consider in allocating waste assimilation capacity, are set
forth in the Basin Plan.
The antidegradation directives of CWC section 13000 require that waters of the State that are better in
quality than established water quality objectives be maintained "consistent with the maximum benefit to
the people of the State." Waters can be of high quality for some constituents or beneficial uses and not
others. Policies and procedures for complying with this directive are set forth in the Basin Plan
(including by reference State Water Board Resolution No. 68-16, "Statement of Policy With Respect to
Maintaining High Quality Waters in California," commonly referred to for convenience as Resolution
68-16 or as the "Antidegradation" Policy).
Resolution 68-16 establishes essentially a two-step process to comply with the policy. The first step is if a
discharge will degrade high quality water, the discharge may be allowed if any change in water quality (a)
will be consistent with maximum benefit to the people of the State, (b) will not unreasonably affect
present and anticipated beneficial uses of such water, and (c) will not result in water quality Jess than that
prescribed in State policies (e.g., water quality objectives in the Basin Plan). The second step is that any
activities that result in discharges to such high quality waters are required to use the best practicable
treatment and control (BPTC) of the discharge necessary to avoid a pollution or nuisance and to maintain
the highest water quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the State.
In authorizing waste discharges, the Regional Board evaluates each case to determine whether
degradation should be allowed and then either proscribes or limits the degradation on a constituent-by­
constituent basis to that which complies with Resolution 68-16. If allowing water quality degradation,
the Regional Board must first find that the degradation is at least balanced by.the benefit to the public of
the activity creating the discharge and that the discharge is undergoing BPTC. To facilitate this process
and protect their interests, dischargers must provide material and relevant technical information that fully
characterizes:
• site-specific hydrogeologic conditions
• background quality of the