wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. The treatment and disposal facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained
to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
4. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences, signs, and
other acceptable alternatives.
:• I
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARK
PLACER COUNTY
C. Sludge Disposal: -3-
l. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be disposed
of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15, Division 3, Title 23, of the California
Code of Regulations and approved by the Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice from a previously approved practice
shall be reported to the Executive Officer and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Regional Administrator at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3. Use and Disposal of sewage shall comply with existing Federal and State laws and
regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards included in 40 CFR
503.
ff the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality Control Boards
are given the authority to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR 503, this Order may
be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules and technical standards. The
Discharger must comply with the standards and time schedules contained in 40 CFR 503
whether or not they have been incorporated into this Order.
4. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual issued by the
Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice for Landspreading of Sewage
Sludge.
D. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 94-151, which
is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive Officer.
2. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for
Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and by
reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are commonly
referenced as "Standard Provisions."
3. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the
existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forwarded to this
office.
4. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or agreement
involving disposal or reclamation areas or off-site reuse of effluent, used to justify the
capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify
'·
-_,,
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARK
PLACER COUNTY -4-
the Board in writing of the situation and of what measures have been taken or are being taken
to assure full compliance with this Order.
5. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique currently
available to comply with salinity limits specified in this order.
6. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal of
technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may result
in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court orders requiring corrective action
or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order.
7. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
8. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most current
edition of "Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction Purposes". Other uses
of reclaimed water not specifically authorized herein shall be subject to the approval of the
Executive Officer and shall comply with 22 CCR, Division 4.
9. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.
I, WILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and correct
copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley
Region, on 20 May 1994.
ILLIAM H. CROOKS, Executive Officer
24 May 1994/MRB:dlk
e J
f
California Regional Water Quality Control Boa:rd
Central Valley Region
\Jan C. Lloyd, Ph.D
Agency Secrera1J' Robert Schneider, Chair
Arnold Schwarzene.
9 September 2005
Keenen Sederquist Sacramento Mnin Office
11020 Sun Center Drive #200, Rancho Cordovn, CA 95670
Phone (916) 464-3291 • FAX (916) 464-4780
Internet Address: http~/mvw.waterboards.cagov
California Department of Parks and Recreation
7806 Folsom-Auburn Road
Folsom, CA 95630
REVISED MONITORING AND .REPORTING PROGRAM, GRANITE BAY STATE PARK,
PLACER COUNTY Governor
Based on a review of Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) No. 94-151, staff determined
that the MRP was outdated and insufficient to show compliance with the WDRs, and thus needed
to be revised. On 19 May 2005, a draft MRP was sent to California Department of Parks and
Recreation; any comments were to be submitted to the Regional Board by 30 June 2005. Staff
did not received any comments, and therefore has finalized the draft revised MRP.
Enclosed is the final Revised MRP No. 94-151. Please note that this.revised MRP is effective
starting 1 October 2005; therefore, your October monitoring report is to conform to the
requirements of this Revised MRP. Quarterly groundwater monitoring shall begin with the
fourth quarter of 2007.
Staff looks forward to receiving the Groundwater Monitoring Well Installation Workplan by 1
May 2007, and the Well Installation Report and Groundwater Sampling Plan by 1 September
2007.
If you have any questions or comments with regards to this letter, please do not hesitate to call
Guy Childs at (916) 464-4648.
ffe&6:Gjd-
Waste~c;!:rge to Land Unit
Enclosure:
cc: Revised Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 94-151
Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements
Brad Banner, Placer County Environmental Health Department, Auburn
California Environmental Protection Agency
0 Recycled Paper
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-151
FOR
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARIC
PLACER COUNTY
This Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) describes requirements for domestic wastewater
effluent and leach.field monitoring. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code Section 13267. The
Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and.until a revised MRP is issued by
the Executive Officer. Regional Board staff shall approve specific sample station locations prior to
implementation of sampling activities.
All samples should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge or matrix of material
sampled. The time, date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of
custody form.
Field test instruments (such as those used to test pH and dissolved oxygen) may be used provided that:
I. The operator is trained in proper use and maintenance of the instruments;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to each monitoring event;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated per the manufacturer's reco=ended frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the "Reporting" section of this MRP.
SEPTIC TANK MONITORING
The Discharger shall monitor the septic tank(s) and report this information in the annual reports. The
septic tank(s) shall be inspected annually and pumped as described below.
Parameter
Sludge depth and scum
thickness in the :first
compartment of each
septic tank
Distance between bottom
of the scum layer and
bottom of outlet device
Distance between top of
sludge layer and bottom of
outlet device Feet
Inches
Inches · . Type of
Measurement
Staff Gauge
Staff Gauge
Staff Gauge Minimum
Inspection
Annually
Annually
Annually Reporting
Frequency
Annually
Annually
Annually
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-151
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARI(
PLACER COUNTY -2-
The septic tank(s) shall be pumped when any one of the following conditions exist or may occur before
the next inspection:
1. The combined thickness of sludge and scum extends one-third of the tank depth of the
first compartment; or,
2. The scum layer is within three inches of the outlet device; or,
3. The sludge layer is within eight inches of the outlet device.
The Discharger shall retain records of each inspection, noting the date and measured readings and
calculations. The Discharger will also record when cleaning is required, the condition of the tank, and
tl1e date that cleaning or repair occurred and by whom. Copies of the Liquid Waste Hauler manifests
shall be retained for review as with any oilier record concerning documentation of compliance with the
Order.
EFFLUENT MONITORING
The Discharger shall conduct effluent monitoring of the wastewater entering the leachfields; samples
shall be collected at a point prior to discharge into the leachfield dosing tanks. Effluent monitoring
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
Sampling Reporting
Constituent Units Twe of SamJ)le Freguency Freguency
Flow1 gpd Continuous Meter Daily2 Monthly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrates as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Total Kjeldalil Nitrogen mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Standard Minerals3 mg/L Grab Annually Annually
1 A flow meter shall be installed and operational by I December 2005.
2 Beginning I December 2005 ·
3 Standard Minerals sbaII include, at a minimum, the following elements and compounds: Boron, Calcium, Iron,
Magnesium, Manganese, Sodium, Potassium, Chloride, Sulfate, Total Allcalinty (including allcalinity series), and
Hardness.
LEACHFIELD AREA MONITORING
The Discharger shall conduct a visual inspection of the leachfield on a weekly basis. Results shall be
recorded and submitted with the monthly monitoring report. Photocopies of entries into an operator's
log are acceptable. Evidence of surfacing wastewater, erosion, field saturation, runoff, or the presence
of.nuisance conditions shall be noted. in the report. If surfacing water is found, then a sample shall be
collected and tested for total coliform organisms and total dissolved solids. In addition tci the visual
inspections, monitoring of the leachfields shall include the following:
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAMNO. 94-151
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARl(S AND RECREATION
AMERJCAN RJVER DISTRJCT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARl(
PLACER COUNTY
Type of
Constituent Units Sample
Application Rate 1 gal/acre•day Calculated
Leachlin.e Riser Inches Measurement
Ins . ? pection-
1 The application rate for each of the leachfields -3-
Sampling Reporting
Freguency Freguencv
Monthly Monthly
Monthly Monthly
'The Discharger shall measure and record the distance from n,e surface of the liquid in the observation port to the surface
of the ground in the active lateral(s).
GROUNDWATER MONITORING
The groundwater monitoring program shall begin in the fourth quarter of 2007. Samples shall be
collected from all groundwater monitoring wells at the facility. Prior to construction and/ or sampling
of any additional groundwater monitoring wells, the Discharger shall submit plans and specifications to
the Board for review and approval. Once installed, all new wells shall be added to the MRP and shall
be sampled and analyzed according to the schedule below.
Prior to sampling, the groundwater elevations shall be measured and the wells shall be purged of at
least three well volumes until temperature, pH and electrical conductivity have stabilized. Depth to
groundwater shall be measured to the nearest 0.01 feet. Samples shall be collected using standard EPA
methods. Groundwater monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following: ·
Type of Sampling Reporting
Constituents Units Sample Freguency Freguency6
Depth to Groundwater 0.01 Feet Measurement Quarterly Quarterly
Groundwater Elevation1 0.01 Feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient Feet/Feet Calculated Quarterly Quarterly
Gradient Direction Degrees Calculated Quarterly Quarterly pH2. pH Units Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Specific Conductivity @25° C µmhos/cm Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Coliform Organisms3 MPN/I00m14 Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
Standard Minerals5 mg/L Grab Annually Annually
'Groundwater elevation shall be based on depth-to-water using a surveyed measuring point elevation on the well and a
surveyed reference elevation.
1Hand held field meter may be used.
'Using a minimum of 15 tubes or three dilutions
4Most probable number per 100 ml.
5 Standard Minerals shall include, at a minimum, the following elements and compoun.ds: Boron, Calcium, Iron,
Magnesium, Manganese, Sodium, Potassium, Chloride, Sulfate, Total Allcalinity (including allcalinity series), and
Hardness.
6 Beginning with the fourth quarter 2007.
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-151
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARK
PLACER COUNTY
REPORTING -4-
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date,
sample type (e.g., process wastewater effluent, groundwater well, etc.), and reported analytical result
for each sample are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly
illustrate compliance with waste discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable.
The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the
Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported in the next scheduled monitoring report.
As required by the California Business and Professions Code Sections 6735, 7835, and 7835.1, all
Groundwater Monitoring Reports shall be prepared under the direct supervision of a Registered
Engineer or Professional Geologist and signed/stamped by the registered professional.
A. Monthly Monitoring Reports
Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board on the 1st day of the second month
following sampling (i.e. the January Report is due by 1 March). At a minimum, the reports shall
include:
1. Results of effluent and leachfield area monitoring;
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications and an explanation of any
violation of those requirements. Data shall be presented in tabular format;
3. If requested by staff, copies oflaboratory analyticalreport(s); and
4. A calibration log verifying calibration of all hand held monitoring instruments and devices used
to comply with the prescribed mopitoring program.
B. Quarterly Monitoring Reports
Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007, the Discharger shall establish a quarterly sampling
schedule for groundwater monitoring such that samples are obtained approximately every three
months. Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board by the 1st day of the
second month after the quarter (i.e. the January-March quarterly report is due by May 1st) and may
be combined with the monthly report. The Quarterly Report shall include the following:
1. Results of the groundwater monitoring;
2. A narrative d~scription of all preparatory, monitoring, sampling, and analytical testing activities
for the groundwater monitoring. The narrative shall be sufficiently detailed to verify
compliance with the WDR, this MRP, and the Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements. The narrative shall be supported by field logs for each well documenting depth
to groundwater; parameters measured before, during, and after purging; method of purging;
calculation of casing volume; and total volume of water purged;
REVISED MONITORJNG AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-151
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PAR!(
PLACER COUNTY
3. Calculation of groundwater elevations and discussion of seasonal trends if any;
4. A narrative discussion of the analytical results for all groundwater locations monitored
including spatial and temporal tends, with reference to summary data tables, graphs, and
appended analytical reports (as applicable);·--5-
5. A comparison of the monitoring data to the groundwater limitations and an explanation of any
violation of those requirements;
6. Summary data tables of historical and current water table elevations and analytical results;
7. A scaled map showing relevant structures and features of the facility, the locations of
monitoring wells and any other sampling stations, and groundwater elevation contours
referenced to mean sea level datum; and
8. Copies oflaboratory analytical report(s) for groundwater monitoring.
B. AnnualReport
An Annual Report shall be prepared as the December monthly monitoring report. The Annual Report
will include all monitoring data required in the monthly schedule. The Annual Report shall be
submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February each year. In addition to the data normally presented,
the Annual Report shall include the following:
I. The contents of the regular groundwater monitoring report for the last sampling event of the
year;
2. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the year;
3. Results of the annual effluent monitoring;
4. A description of any activity to control vegetation in the Ieachfield area;
5. Annual summary of the septic tankinspections for the year, including whether the tank was
pumped and that waste was removed by a licensed hauler;
6. A description of the annual evaluation of effluent distribution and adjustments made, if any;
7. A summary of maintenance and repair activities which were performed on the effluent
collection system;
8. A statement regarding whether the flow meter was calibrated during the year; and
9. A discussion of any compliance issues and the corrective actions talcen, as well as any planned
or proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge
requirements.
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 94-151
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
AMERICAN RIVER DISTRICT
GRANITE BAY STATE PARJ(
PLACER COUNTY -6-
A letter transmitting the self-monitoring reports shall accompany each report. Such a letter shall
include a discussion of requirement violations found during the reporting period, and actions talcen or
planned for correcting noted violations, such as operation or facility modifications. If the discharger
has previously submitted a report describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for
implementing the corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The
transmittal letter shall contain a statement by the discharger, or the discharger's authorized agent, under
penalty of perjury, that to the best of the signer's knowledge the report is true, accurate and complete.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date ofthis Order.
Ordered by: °IL R PvJen
THOMAS R. PINKOS, Executive Officer
q Seyt OS-
(Date)