existing facility and as such is exempt from
the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, in
accordance with Title 14, California Administrative Code,
Chapter 3, Article 19, Section 15301.
The Regional Board has considered all environmental factors
associated with the existing discharge.
7'. The-Regional Board has notified all interested parties of its
intent: co modify waste discharge requirements for the existing
discharge.
3. The Regional Board in a public hearing, heard and considered all
comments pertaining :o the existing discharge. \.
Add. 1 to Order No. 94-92 -2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That Order No. 94-92 is modified as follows:
1. •Discharge Specification B.2 is superseded by the following:
B.2 The SRWRF shall not treat more than 5.0 MGD and the
discharge to land from the SRWRF shall not exceed 30 day
running average of 2.45 MGD unless the discharge~ obtains
revised waste discharge requirements.
2. The effluent boron limitation established in Discharge
Specification B.3 is replaced by the following:
Boron 12-month average
0.75 mg/1 daily maximum
0.75 mg/1
I, John H. Robertus, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the
foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of Addendum No. 4 to
Order No. 87-108 adopted by the California Regional Water Quality
Control Board, San Diego Region, on May 21, 1997.
JOHN H. ROBERTUS
Executive Officer
. ··------... ---·---·-··-····-- . ·-·-··-·· -···-.•. ·········'·.
__... . . .
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL B'OARI)
SAN DIEGO REGION
. ORDER NO.· 94-92 ·
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR THE
RANCHO CALIFORNIA WATER DISTRICT
WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITIES
RIVERSIDE COUNTY
The California Regional Water Quality Control Boar~ San Diego Region (hereinafter
Regional Board), finds that:
1. On Decemper 14, 199~ this Regional Board adopted Order No. 92-79, Waste
Discharge Requirements for Rancho California Water District, Joaquin Ranch
Wastewater Reclamation Facility, Riverside County. Order No. 92-79,, which
superseded Order No. 87-33, established requirements for the land disposal of up to
. 0.6 million gallons per day (MGD) of tertiary treated waste'YB,ter~ discharged from
Joaquin Ranch Wastewater Reclamation Facility, by irrigation. of·golf courses and open
space areas.
,
2. The Joaquin Ranch Water Reclamation· Facility (WRF) consists of a grit chamber, an
oxidation ditch, clarifiers, tlow equaliz.ation basin, gravity filtration system,
chlorinator~ chlorine contact chamber, aerated sludge holding tank, sludge drying
beds, and a seasonal storage reservoir.· ·
3. · The sludge produced by the treatment process from the Joaquin Ranch WRF is
aerobically digested then solar dried in sludge drying beds ... Digested, dewatered
sludge is stored onsite and made available as a soil conditioner to local farmers and
landscapers. ·
4. On October 5, 1987, this Regional Board adopted Order No. 87-125, Waste Discl}arge
. Requirements for Rancho California Water District, Santa Rosa Wastewater
Reclamation Facility, Riverside County. Order No. 87~125 and Addendum No .. 1 to
Order No. 87-125 established requirements for the disposal of up to 1.0 MGD of
treated wastewater to percolation beds.
5. The existing Santa Rosa WRF is a secondary treatment. facility with a current
permitted flow of 1.0 MGD. The facility consists of two bar screens, comminutor,
aerated grit chamber, sequencing batch reactor, two percolation ponds, aerobic
digester, gravity table thickener, and two belt filter presses. Advanced wastewater
treatment facilities are currently under construction. The facilities will have a capacity
Order No. 94-92 -2-
of 1.85 MGD and consist of flow equalization basin, pump stction, denitrification
reactors ( optional), rapid mix/flocculation basins, tertiary ~larifiers, gravity filters,
chlorine contact basin, filter backwash basins, chemical sludge holding basin, and
.chemical sludge drying beds. With the addition of the advanced wastewater treatment
facilities, the discharger (RCWD) reports that the effluent quality will achiev.e the full
Title 22 requirements as specified in the California Code of Regulations.
6. Dewatered sludge from the Santa Rosa WRF is hauled offsite for further treatment and
disposal.
7. On July 29, 1992, the Rancho California Water District (hereinafter discharger)
submitted a Report of Waste ·Discharge to request the adoption of a regional waste
discharge and water reclamation permit. After the discharger submitted additional
informat.ion on June 7, 1994, the Report of Waste Discharge was considered complete.
The Report of Waste Discharge indicates that the Rancho California Water District
(RCWD) and Eastern Municipal Water District (EMWD) will jointly construct a
regional water distribution system to convey reclaimed water to various use sites in
soufti.em Riverside County. _The Report of Waste Discharge also indicates that through
agreement b~tween the RC\1/1) and EMWD, the RCWD is to be the sole reclaimed
water purveyor throughout the RCWD service area.
. 8. The Report of Waste Discharge states that an average annual flow of 7.45 MOD
(12.45 MOD on a peak day basis) would be beneficially reused within the. RCWD
service area. The RCWD. service area includes the Murrieta Hydrologic Subunit, the
downstream portions of the Pauba and Wolf Hydrologic Subareas, the portion of the
Meadowview development tributary to the Santa Gertrudis watershed, the portion of
the Red Hawk development tributary to the Wolf Valley, and the Walker Basin
development (Attachment No.1). The reclaimed water will be produced from (1) the
10:0 MGD EMWD Temecula Valley Regional WRF, (2) the 1.85 MOD RCWD Santa
Rosa WRF, and (3) the 0.6 MGD RCWD Joaquin Ranch WRF.
9. The discharger reports that both RCWD and EMWD own reclaimed water treatment
and conveyance systems within the RCWD boundaries. A I'('Claimed water
management agreement is being developed by the agencies which would establish
conditions for the treatment, use, and distribution of reclaimed water in· the regional
· distribution system. Key elements of the agreement will include: ··
a. The RCWD is the designated reclaimed water purveyor within the RCWD
service area, with responsibilities for insuring compliance with federal, state,
and local reclaimed vr.-:1.ter use requirements. · ..
b. The EMWD is the designated reclaimed water purveyor in areas outside the
RCWD boundaries, with responsibilities for insuring compliance with federal,
state, and local reclaimed water use requirements.
. ................ •.
Order No. 94-92 -3 --
c. Within the RCWD service· area, the RCWD wo~d. be responsible for ..
· maintaining RCWD-owned reclaimed water conveyance facilities, and the
EMWD would be responsible for maintaining EMWD-owned facilities. The
RCWD would be responsible for maintaining lateral connections and meters to
users within the RCWD service area. · ·· ·
d. Each district would be responsible for the quality of reclaimed water that is
introduced into the regional reclaimed water distribution system.
e. The RCWD and EMWD would jointly manage· the amount of reclaimed water
introduced into the regional distribution system. The RCWD would introduce a
daily maximum of no more than 2.45 MGD to the system. The EMWD would
introduce a daily maximum of no more than 10.0 MGD into the system.
f. Within the RCWD, in addition to the 2.45 MGD contribution, the RCWD
would have the first rights to the use of up to 5.0 MGD of the 10.0 MGD flow
contributed by the EMWD. For use in areas outside the RCWD, the EMWD
would have first rights.to the use of flows in excess of (1) m1nimum stream
discharge commitments and (2) the 5.0 MGD "first rights" commitment to
RCWD. .
1 O. The discharger reports that two seasonal storage ponds with an approximately 500
acre-feet storage capacity will be constructed approximately 1500 feet southwest of the
Santa Rosa WRF. The discharger further reports that the proposed seasonal storage
ponds are projected to be adequate for allowing flexibility in the operation of RCWD
reclaimed water operations. Under the projected long-term disposition of.reclaimed
waters, an average of approximately 330 !l,Cre-feet of the seasonal storage may be
required.' With a total of 500 acre-feet of storage being available, it is projected that
the RCWD seasonal storage facilities would provide more than two months storage
capacity over and above normal anticipated seasonal storage-needs.
11. The discharger reports that all wastewater from the RCWD discharged into the
regional distribution system for reuse will be treated to the level that permits
nonrestricted public contact and landscape irrigation to lawns, parks, playgrounds, and
golf courses. In conformance with Title 22, unrestricted use mandates a wastewater
which has undergone tertiary treatment and has been adequately disinfected,. oxidized,
coagulated, clarified, and filtered with the median number of coliform organisms in the
treatment process effluent not exceeding 2.2 per 100 milliliters. In addition, the
maximum number of coliform in any sample cannot exceed 23 per 100 milliliters.
12. The discharger reports that the quantities of reclaimed water will be used in five
separate subbasins as follows:
Order No. 94-92
.Downstream Portion of Pauba HSA (2.5 I)
Downstream Portion of.Wolf HSA (2.52)
-Murrieta HA (2.3) -4-
Walker Basin, Deluz HA (2.2)
Meadowview Development, Auld HA (2.4)
Red Hawk.Development, Wolf HSA (2.52)
Notes_: HSA = Hydrologic Subarea
HA = Hydrologic Arca _,-..
5;600
1,120
3,920
448
448
336
13. The "Comprehensive Water Quality Control Plan Report, San Diego Basin (9) (Basin
Plan)'\ was adopted by this Regional Board on March 17, 1975 and subsequently
approved \$y the State Water Resources Control Board (State Board). Subsequent
revisions to the Basin Plan have· also been adopted by the Regional Board and
ap:eroved by the State Board.
14. The Basin Plan established the following beneficial uses of surface water and ground
water in the Deluz Creek (2.21) HSA, the Gavilan (2.22) HSA, the Wildomar (2.31)
HSA, the Murrieta (2.32) HSA, the French (2.33) HSA, t~ Bachelor Mountain (2.41)
HSA, the Gertrudis (2.42} HSA, the Pauba (2.51) HSA, and the Wolf (2.52) HSA:
Beneficial Uses Identified In Basin Plan . .
Beneficial Use Surface Water Groundwater
2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5
MUN Municipal and Domestic Supply X X X X X X X X
Notes: 0 Potential ~ficial uses.
· X Existing beneficial uses .
•
Order No. 94-92 -5 -, ... ·
-.,.,. .. \,,
15. The Basin ~Ian established the following surface water quality objecti~ _b tnO Deli,
Creek (2.21) HSA, the Gavilan (2.22) HSA, the W"tldomar (231) HSA, the Murrieta \
(2.32) HSA, the French (2.33) HSA, the Bachelo:r Mountain (2.41) HSA, the Gertrudis
(2.42) HSA, the Pauba (2.51) HSA, and the Wolf (2.52) HSA: ---·
Basin Plan .Water· Quality_ .. Objectives
CONSTITUENT
Total Dissolved
Solids Conccntrati~n not to be cxcccdcd more than IO percent of the time during any one y~ period
{mg/I or ·as noted)
Inland Surface Water .
2.21,.2.22 2.21.1, 2.22 2.31,2.32,2.33 2.41~ 2.42 2.51, 2.52
500 7S0 750 500 750 '
Notes: ~git • milligrams per liter
• N11J • Nephclomcttic _turbidity units
Conccnlrations of nitrogen and phosphorus. by themselves or in combination with other nDlrients, shall be maintaimld at levels
below those which stimulate algae and cmcrgcnt plant growth. 1brcshold total phosphorus (P) collCZllll'ations shall not cxcccd
0.05 mgll in any stream at the point where it emas any rcsc:rvoir or lake, nor 0.025 ffll/1 in any reservoir or lake. A desired pl
in flowing watcn appears to be 0.1 _ mg/I total P. These values arc not to be cxcccdcd more tbm 10% of Che time unless studies
of the spec:ific wari:r body in questipn clearly show that wau:r quality objective changes an pcnnissible and chops are approved
by lhe Regional Board. Analopus threshold values have not been set for nitrogen c:ompo1lllds, howeffr, natural ratios of nitrogen
to phosphorus arc to be dctmnined by surveill1111CO and monitoring and Ullheld. If dlda are laddng. a ndo ofN:P • 10:1 shall be
llSed. •· ·:;-_ .
The surfilcc watm affected include the lower portion of Murrieta Creek in the Wolf HSA (2.52) and the Santa Margarita River
from its beginning at the confluence of Mutrieta and Temecula Credcs, through the Gavi1an HSA (2.22) and Deluz HSA (2.21), to
whcre it enters the Upper Ysidora HSA (2.13).
Order No. 94-92 -6 -
16. The Basin Plan established the following groundwater quality objectives for the Deluz
Creek (2.21) HSA, the Gavilan (2.22) HSA, the Wildomar (2.31} HSA, the Murrieta
(2.32) HSA; the ~rench (2.33) HSA, the Bachelor Mountain (2.41) HSA, the Gertrudis
(2A2) HSA, the Pauba (2.51) HSA, and the Wolf (2.52) HSA:
Basin Plan Water Quality Objectives
Concentration not to be exceeded more than IO percent of the time during any one year period
(mg/I or as noted)
CONSTITUENT Groundwater
2.21, 2.22 2.21 , 2.22 2.31,232,2.33 2.41, 2A2 2.51, 2.52
Total Dissolved
Solids SQO
Notes: mg/I = milligrams per liter
NfU = Nephelom_ctric turbidity units 750 500
'The ground waten affected by this change include the alluvial ground water beneath Che Santa Margarita River in Temecula
Canyon and Fallbrook to a depth of 100 feet and a lateral distance cq~ to the area of' the floodplain covered by 10 yaar flood
event 'This change does not affect the ground water objectives for ground Wider in any of lhe ground water basins bmca1h Deluz,
Sandia. and Rainbow Creeks, and other unnmned crcctcs. which are tributaries of the Santa Margarita River,.
2 'The recommended plan would allow for measurable degradation of ground Wala' in the basin 1D pmnit continued agricultural land
use •.. , Point sources. however, would be controlled co achieve effluent quality corresponding to lhc tabulated numerical values. In
future years demineralization may be used to trat ground wamr to the desired quality prior to use.
3 As modified by Regional Board Resolution No. 94-09 and State Water Resources Control Board Resolution 94-15, which ail the
time .of adopting of Chis c-:ter. was not yet reviewed and approved by the Slate of California Office of Administrative Law.
17. The Basin Plan contains the following prohibitions which are applicable to the
discharge:
-·
Order No. 94-92 -7 -
. . .
"Discharge of treated or untreated sewage or industrial wastewater, exclusive of
cooling water or other waters which are chemically unchanged, to a watercourse, is
prohibited except in cases where the water quality of said discharge· complies with the
receiving body water quality objectives."
"Discharging of treated or untreated sewage or industrial wastes in such manner or
volume as to cause sustained surface flow or ponding on lands not owned or under
control of the discharger is prohibited except in cases defined in the previous
paragraph· and in-cases in which the responsibility for all downstream adverse effects is .
accepted by the discharger."
"The dumping or deposition of oil, garbage, trash or other solid municipal, industrial
or agricultural waste directly into inland waters or watercourses or adjacent to the
watercourses in any manner which may permit its being washed into the watercourse is
prohibited." ,
"Dumping or deposition of oil, garbage, trash or other solid municipal, industrial or
agricultural waste into natural or excavated sites below historic water levels or
deposition of soluble industrial wastes at any site is prohibited, unless such site has
been specifically approved by the Regional Board for that purpose."
18. The discharger's consultant used two computer models (lumped-parameter and link­
node groundwater model) to evaluate the prop_osed reclaimed water use within RCWD
and assess potential water quality impacts to local groundwater. Based on the results
of the models, the discharger's consultant co~cluded that the proposed reclaimed water
use in the basins will not adversely impact groundwaters quality and beneficial uses, or
cause the Basin Plan objectives to be exceeded. The discharger's consultant further
indicated because of the simplicity of the models, the models are inadequate for use in
developing detailed area or time projections of future water quality. Given the
coarseness of the input data and the simplicity of the models, the models provide a
degree of accuracy on the order of one significant figure or less. As a result, the
models are suited only for developing a qualitative approximation of anticipated water
quality trends, and should not be used for purposes of predicting location or time
dependent groundwater concentrations.
19. Given the significant limitation of the computer models, staff concludes that sufficient
uncertainty exists in. the models simulations to warrant groundwater monitoring of
major reuse sites to insure compliance with Basin Plan water quality objectives.
20. The discharge of reclaimed water ~.J the areas authorized by this Order is in
conformance with Resolution No. 68-16, "Statement of Policy with Respect to
Maintaining the High Quality of Waten in California." The wastewater
reclamation and reuse projects that will occur in the areas authorized by this Order
under the terms and conditions of this Order will:
-·· ___ ... --•----
Order No. 94-92 -8 -
a. . Have maximum benefit to the people of the State, because in the absence of
reclaimed wastewater, imported potable water would be used for irrigation of
the reclaimed water use areas described in this Order;
b. Not unreasonably effect the beneficial uses of ground water in the underlying
basins; and
c. Not cause the ground water objectives of the Deluz Creek (2.21) HSA, the
Gavilan (2.22) HSA, the Wildomar (2.31) HSA, the Murrieta (2.32) HSA, the
French (2.33) HSA, the Bachelor Mountain (2.41) HSA, the Gertrudis (2.42)
HSA, the Pauba (2.51) HSA, and the Wolf (2.52) HSA to be exceeded.
21. This Order prescribes waste discharge requirements and reclamation requirements
governing the production and use of reclaimed water, which the Regional Board has
determined' are necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare pursuant to
California Water Code, Division 7, Chapter 7, Sections 13500-13550 ("Water
Reclamation Law"). This Order, which applies to the producer of reclaiined water,
reqpires that the producer of the reclaimed water establish and enforce rules and
regulations which apply to. users, including purveyors, of the reclaimed water.
22. On February 16, 1993, RCWD filed a Notice of Determination in compliance with
Section 21108 or 21152 of the Public Resources Code. The Notice· stated that a
Negative Declaration was prepared for this project pursuant to the provisions of
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The project as approved by RCWD
will not have a significant impact on. environment.
23. The Regional Board, in establishing the requirements contained herein, considered
factors including, but not limited to,. the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d) Beneficial uses to be protected and the water quality objectives reasonably
required for that purpose;
Other waste discharges;
The need to prevent nuisance;
· Past, pre~t, and probable future beneficial uses of the hydrologic subunits
under consideration; ·
(e) .. Environmental characteristics of the hydrologic subunits unc;ler conside::..ition;
(f) Water quality conditions that could reasQnably be achieved through the
coordinated control of all factors which affect water quality in the area;
.A:·_
• Order No. 94-92 -9 -
24.
25.
26. (g) Economic considerations;
(h) The need for additional housing within the region; and
(i) The need to develop and use recycled water.
The Regional Board has considered all water resource related environmental factors
associated with the proposed discharge of waste.
The Regional Board has notified the Rancho California Water District and all known
interested parties of the intent to prescribe waste discharge requirements for the
proposed discharge.
The Regional Board in a public meeting heard and considered all comments pertaining
to the discharge.
-
Order No. 94-92 -10 -
n; IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the Rancho California Water District, hereinafter
discharger, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water
Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following requirements for
the discharge of wastewater from the Joaquin Ranch WRF, the Santa Rosa WRF and_ the
purveyance and reu~e of all reclaimed water within the Rancho California Water District
service area:
A. PROIDBITIONS
1. Discharges of wastes in a manner other than as described in the Findings of
this Order is prohibited unless the discharger obtains revised waste discharge
requirements that provide for the proposed changes.
2. Neither the treatment, storage nor disposal of waste shall create a pollution,
contamination or nuisance, as defined by Section 13050 of the California Water­
Code.
3. Discharges of treated or untreated solid or liquid waste to a navigable water or
tributary of a navigable water are prohibited unless as authorized by an NPDES
permit issued by this Regional Board. ·
--.
.,
Urder No. 94-92 -11 -
B. DISCHARGE SPECIFICATIONS ,
1. . . A daily flow from the Joaquin Ranch Wastewater ~clamation F:acility shall
; "> #1/ . ~ot exceed 0.6 million gallons ~ess the discharger obtains revised waste , 1/ ~ ·vf I; S discharge requirements for the proposed ~creased flow. . . .
,/ 1 ~ }· A daily flow from the Santa Rosa Wastewater Reclamation Facility shall not
l ~. exceed 1. 85 million gallons unless the discharger obtain revised waste discharge
~ requirements for the proposed increased flow. ~-u;
·, ·" J.•
,?-3. The discharge of a secondary treated effluent, from the Santa Rosa Wastewater
Reclamation Facility to the percolation beds containing pollutants in excess of
the following