wastewater treatment and disposal system. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code Section 13267.
The Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is issued
by the Executive Officer.
All wastewater samples should be representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. The time,
date, and location of each grab sample shall be recorded on the sample chain of custody form. Process
wastewater flow monitoring shall be conducted continuously using a flow meter and shall be reported in
cumulative gallons per day.
Field test instruments (such as pH and dissolved oxygen) may be used provided that:
1. The operator is trained in the proper use of the instrument;
2. The instruments are field calibrated prior to each monitoring event;
3. Instruments are serviced and/or calibrated per manufacturer's recommended frequency; and
4. Field calibration reports are submitted as described in the "Reporting" section of this MRP.
SEPTIC TANK AND CONVEYANCE SYSTEM MONITORING
The Discharger shall monitor each septic tank and report this infommtion in the annual reports. Septic
tanks shall be inspected annually for the presence of scun1 and sludge as described below:
Type of Minimum Reporting
Parameter Units Measurement Inspection Frequency
Sludge depth and scum Feet Staff Gauge Annually Annually
thickness in each septic tank 1
Distance between bottom of Inches Staff Gauge Annually Annually
scum layer and bottom of
outlet device 1
Distance between top of Inches Staff Gauge Annually Annually
sludge layer and bottom of
outlet device 1
1 The Discharger shall visually inspect the tanks for signs of damages, leakage, or deterioration
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 90-055
GOLD BEACH PARK WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY -2-
If the septic tank(s) are pumped out and cleaned, the annual report shall describe how much sludge was ((
removed from the septic tank(s), and the date that cleaning or repair occurred and by whom. In addition,
a copy of the Liquid Waste Hauler manifests shall be submitted.
The septic tank visual alarm systems for each septic tank shall be inspected quarterly to ensure they are
working correctly. Results of the inspections shall be reported in the monthly monitoring report for the
month that the alarms were inspected.
The wastewater conveyance pipe that crosses the Consunmes River shall be inspected daily for signs of
leakage. Results of the daily inspection of the wastewater conveyance pipe shall be submitted in the
monthly monitoring reports.
EFFLUENT MONITORING
The Discharger shall conduct effluent monitoring of the wastewater entering the evaporation/percolation
ponds; samples shall be collected at a point prior to discharge into the evaporation/percolation ponds.
Effluent monitoring shall include, at a minimum, the following:
2 Type of Sampling Reporting
Constituents Units Sample Freguency Freguency
Flow to the wastewater ponds gpd Meter Weekly Monthly
BOD51 mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Total Dissolved Solids mg/L Grab Monthly Monthly
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly'
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly'
Ammonia mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly'
Zinc mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly'
Total Phenols mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly'
Formaldehyde mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly3
Standard Minerals2 mg/L Grab Annually Annually'
5-day, 20°C Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
Standard Minerals shall include the following: boron, calcium, iron, manganese, magnesium, potasium, sodium,
chloride, total alkalinity (including alkalinity series), and hardness.
To be reported in the March, June, September, and December monthly monitoring reports.
To be reported in the January monthly monitoring report. ··
POND MONITORING
Each of the evaporation/percolation ponds shall be monitored as specified below. Freeboard shall be
measured vertically from the surface of the pond water to the lowest elevation of the surrounding levee
and shall be measured to the nearest 0.1 feet.
Sampling Reporting
Constituents Units Type of Samgle Freguency Freguency
Dissolved Oxygen1-' mg/L Grab Weekly Monthly
pH' pH units Grab Weekly Monthly
Freeboard 0.1 feet Observation Weekly Monthly ((
((
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 90-055
GOLD BEACH PARK WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
Benn Seepage'
Odors3 NA Observation
Observation Weekly
Weekly Monthly
Monthly -3-
Samples shall be collected at a depth of one foot from each pond in use, opposite the inlet. Samples shall be collected
between 0700 and 0900 hours.
2 Reservoir containment levees shall be observed for signs of seepag, or surfacing water along the exterior toe of the
levees and dam. If surfacing water is found, then a sample shall be collected and tested for total coliform organisms and
total dissolved solids.
3 The presence of strong or unusual odors shall be reported.
4 Hand held meter may be used.
SLUDGE MONITORING
In accordance with EPA's POTW Sludge Sampling and Analysis Guidance Document, August 1989, a
composite sample of sludge shall be collected when removed from the evaporation/percolation pond and
tested for the following metals:
Cadmium
Chromium Copper
Lead Nickel
Zinc
Sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years. A log shall be kept of sludge quantities ·
generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency of entries is discretionary; however, the
log should be complete enough to serve as a basis for part of the annual report.
REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the date,
sample type (e.g., process wastewater effluent, groundwater well, etc.), and reported analytical result for
each sample are readily discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly illustrate
compliance with waste discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends, as applicable. The results
of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in tl1e Monitoring and
Reporting Program shall be reported in the next scheduled monitoring report.
A. Monthly Monitoring Reports
Monthly reports shall be submitted to the Regional Board by the 1 '' day of the second month
following the end of the reporting period (i.e. the January monthly report is due by 1 March). The
monthly reports shall include the following:
1. Results of the wastewater conveyance system, effluent and pond monitoring;
2. A comparison of monitoring data to the discharge specifications and an explanation of
any violation of those requirements. Data shall be presented in tabular format;
3. If requested by staff, copies'oflaboratory analytical report(s); and
4. A calibration log verifying calibration of all hand held monitoring instruments and
devices used to comply with the prescribed monitoring program;
REVISED MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 90-055
GOLD BEACH PARK WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
B. Annual Monitoring Reports -4-
An Annual Report shall be prepared as the December monthly monitoring report. The Annual
Report shall be submitted to the Regional Board by 1 February of each year and shall include
the following:
1. The contents of the regular monthly monitoring report for the last month;
2. If requested by staff, tabular and graphical summaries of all data collected during the year;
3. Results of the septic tank and effluent annual monitoring;
4. An evaluation of the performance of the wastewater treatment system, as well as a forecast
of the flows anticipated in the next year;
5. A statement regarding whether flow nieterwas calibrated during the year;
6. Verification of appropriate employee training for all personnel involved in operation and
maintenance of wastewater treatment system;
7. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned or ( (
proposed actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste ( (
discharge requirements; and
8. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring
system or reporting program.
A letter transmitting the self-monitoring reports shall accompany each report. Such a letter shall include
a discussion of requirement violations found during the reporting period, and actions taken or planned
for correcting noted violations, such as operation or facility modifications. If the discharger has
previously submitted a report describing corrective actions and/or a time schedule for implementing the
corrective actions, reference to the previous correspondence will be satisfactory. The transmittal letter
shall contain a statement by the discharger, or the discharger's authorized agent, under penalty of perjury,
that to the best of the signer's knowledge the report is true, accurate and complete.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring progrffiil as of the date of this Order.
Ordered by:
THOMAS R. PINK.OS, Executive Officer
(Date)
( (