wastewater treatment and disposal facility
and the supplemental field. These wells draw water from the deeper zones of 80 and 170
feet. A drainage ditch extends in an easterly direction across the supplemental field.
Drainage from this area flows south to Crazy Creek, then north and east in Crazy Creek
to Putah Creek.
22. Surface water drainage is to Crazy Creek, then to Putah Creek and ultimately to Lake
Berryessa.
23. The State Water Resources Control Board adopted Order No. 97-03-DWQ (General
Permit No. CASOOOOOl) specifying waste discharge requirements for discharges of storm
water associated with industrial activities, excluding construction activities, and requiring
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
submittal of a Notice of Intent by industries to be covered under the permit. However,
this Order incorporates specific limitations and prohibitions to mitigate potential water
quality problems associated with storm water runoff. -5-
24. The Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan, Fourth Edition, for the Sacramento
River and San Joaquin River Basins (hereafter Basin Plan), which contains water quality
objectives for all waters of the Basin. These requirements implement the Basin Plan.
25. The beneficial uses of Lake Berryessa and Putah Creek are municipal, industrial, and
agricultural supply; recreation; aesthetic enjoyment; ground water recharge; fresh water
replenishment; hydroelectric power generation; and preservation and enhancement of
fish, wildlife and other aquatic resources.
26. The beneficial uses of the underlying groundwater are municipal, industrial, and
agricultural supply.
27. The California Department of Health Services has established statewide reclamation
criteria in Title 22, California Code of Regulations, Section 60301, et seq. (hereafter Title
22) for the use of recycled water and has developed guidelines for biosolids reuse in the
Manual of Good Practices for Landspreading of Sewage Sludge, April 1993. The
Discharger's operation and management of its biosolids program will be consistent with
these guidelines as well as the USEPA's biosolids reuse regulations in 40 CFR 503,
Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge.
28. Prior to the issuance of Order No. 94-138, the Discharger adopted a final environmental
impact report (EIR) in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000, et seq.) and the State CEQA Guidelines.
The EIR indicated that the wastewater treatment facility, recycled water irrigation and
biosolids application practices may have the following significant impacts on water
quality:
a. Increase in turbidity of surface water and streams during and after construction.
b. Water quality effects from force main rupture or pump station failure.
c. Potential for contamination of surface water by sewage during flooding or damage
to treatment plant and disposal facilities from flooding.
d. Pollution of groundwater by infiltration of storage pond effluent.
e. Potential for contamination of ground water with excess nutrients, particularly
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
nitrogen, from irrigation with recycled water at the supplemental irrigation field
located between the treatment plant site and Grange Road. -6-
29. In 1994, the Board has reviewed the EIR and detem1ined that compliance with the waste
discharge requirements will mitigate or avoid the significant impacts on air and water
quality listed in Finding No. 28. Specific mitigation measures correspond to the
alphabetically listed impacts in Finding No. 28 and are as follows:
a.
b.
C.
d.
e. I.
I. Control increased turbidity of surface water by using standard erosion
control measures.
The pump station and transmission main system should be designed for
leak detection and early warning to hasten necessary repairs.
11. . The transmission main crossing of Putah Creek should be encased in
concrete to minimize the potential for rupture.
111. The terminal pump station and treatment plant shall be provided with
emergency power supplies.
I. Irrigation systems located in the floodplain shall be valved to isolate those
areas in the floodplain from irrigation.
11. All pumps and facilities shall be flood-proofed to one foot above the 100-
year floodplain.
m. The facility will be equipped with a portable generator as a source of
power in the event of an emergency.
I.
I. The effiuent storage pond will be fitted with the proper liner as
geotechnical/engineering studies of the site indicate that a liner is
necessary to mitigate nitrate leakage into the ground water.
The treatment process will be modified to reduce nitrate concentrations
that may adversely affect the water quality in wells located along Grange
Road when the supplemental field is in use.
11. When use of the supplemental field co=ences, ongoing monitoring
studies will be conducted to demonstrate that no domestic water supply
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
quality is being degraded. Should a potential for degradation of potable
water supplies be demonstrated, the treatment/storage/disposal process
will be modified to eliminate the potential for degradation. -7-
30. This discharge is exempt from the requirements of Consolidated Regulations for
Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste, as set forth in Title 2 7,
California Code of Regulations (CCR), Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 20005, et seq.
(hereafter Title 27). The exemption, pursuant to Section 20090 (b), is based on the
following:
a. The Board is issuing waste discharge requirements, and
b. The discharge complies with the Basin Plan, and
c. The biosolids to be applied are a non-hazardous, decomposable waste applied as a
soil amendment pursuant to best management practices, and
d. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to CCR, Title 22,
Division 4.5, Chapter 11, as a hazardous waste.
31. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
32. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 94-138 is rescinded and Hidden Valley Lake
Community Services District and Hidden Valley Lake Association, its agents, successors, and
assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and
regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -8-
3. The discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' under CCR, Title 23, Chapter 15,
Section 2521, or 'designated', as defined in Section 13173 of the California Water
Code, is prohibited.
4. The application ofbiosolids at rates in excess of the nitrogen requirements of the
vegetation, or at rates that would cause the excess nitrogen or metals to leach to
groundwater, is prohibited.
5. The application ofbiosolids shall be confined to the designated application areas,
as stated in Finding Nos. 6, 8 and 11 of th.is Order and shown on Attachment B.
6. The grazing of milking animals used for producing unpasteurized milk for human
consumption is prohibited on the designated recycled water irrigation or biosolids
application areas.
7. The off-site discharge of storm water, and/or irrigation runoff, from fields on
which biosolids have been applied, is prohibited for 30 days following the
application ofbiosolids.
8. The application ofbiosolids during rainfall events is prohibited.
9. The application ofbiosolids with pollutant concentrations greater than those
shown below is prohibited.
Constituents
Arsenic
Cadmium
Chromium
Copper
Lead
Mercury
Molybdenum
Nickel
Selenium
Zinc Ceiling Concentration
mg/kg dcy weight
75
85
3000
4300
840
57
75
420
100
7500
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
B. Discharge Specifications:
Treatment Plant and Wastewater Storage Facilities
1. The average monthly dry weather discharge from the treatment plant shall not
exceed 0.350 mgd.
2. The maximum wet weather discharge from the treatment plant shall not exceed
0.894mgd. -9-
3. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the
limits of the wastewater treatment, recycled water irrigation, biosolids application
or wastewater disposal areas.
4. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 3, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall
not be less than 1.0 mg/I.
5. The treatment and storage facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 1 OD-year return
frequency.
6. The effluent from the treatment facility shall not exceed the following limits:
Canstib1ent I..Ini.ts
BOD/ mg/1
Suspended Solids mg/I
Settleable Solids ml/I
Coliform MPN/lOOml
Turbidity NTU
'Five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). Monthly
Average
30
30 Daily
Maximum
60
60
0.5
2.2 Median . 23
2 5
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY \
7. Treatment plant effluent shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
8. The storage pond shall have a clay liner a minimum of 18" thick, installed at a
relative compaction of at least 90%, with a maximum permeability of
lx10·' cm/sec, or equivalent.
9. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular, -10-
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities
are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
I 0. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
11. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow,
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
nonirrigation season. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation us4J.g a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance
with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically).
12. On or about 1 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification No. 11.
Recycled Water Irrigation
13. A maximum of 1.3 mgdmaybe discharged to the golf course and supplemental
field, weather permitting.
14. There shall be no standing water in the disposal area 48 hours after wastewater is
applied.
15. Areas irrigated with recycled water shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. More specifically,
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -11-
a. Tail water must be returned, and applied irrigation water must infiltrate
completely within a 48-hour period.
b. Ditches not serving as wildlife habitat should be maintained free of
emergent, marginal, and floating vegetation.
c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accessible to
mosquitoes shall not be used to store recycled water.
16. Recycled water for irrigation shall be managed to minimize erosion, runoff, and
movement of aerosols from the disposal areas.
17. Direct or windblown spray shall be confined to the designated recycled water
spray irrigation areas (appropriate portions of the golf course and the
supplemental field) and prevented from contacting drinking water facilities.
18. The Discharger may not spray irrigate recycled water during periods of
precipitation and for at least 24 hours after cessation of precipitation, or when
winds exceed 30 mph.
19. The discharge shall remain within designated disposal areas at all times.
20. Signs with proper wording of sufficient size shall be placed at areas of access and
around the perimeter of all areas used for effluent disposal to alert the public of
the use of recycled water.
21. Golf course scorecards should indicate that recycled water is being used for
irrigation purposes.
22. Storm water runoff from the irrigation areas shall not be discharged to any surface
water drainage course within 48 hours of the last application ofrecycled water.
23. Recycled water irrigation practices shall be in accordance with Winzler and Kelly
Consulting Services' September 1993 Engineering Report on the Production
Distribution and Use of Reclaimed Water. Application of recycled water to the
reclamation areas shall be at reasonable rates considering the crop, soil, climate,
and irrigation management system. The nutrient loading of the reclamation areas,
including the nutritive value of organic and chemical fertilizers and of the
recycled water shall not exceed the crop demand.
--
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -12-
24. There shall be no impoundment ofrecycled water, recycled water irrigation or
biosolids application within 500 feet of any domestic water well, or within 100
feet of any irrigation well unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Executive Officer that less distance is justified.
Biasalids Application
25. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall
be disposed ofin a manner that is consistent with CCR, Title 27, and approved by
the Executive Officer.
26. Prior to biosolids application, the Discharger shall submit a Biosolids
Management Plan for approval by the Executive Officer. The Discharger shall
maintain and operate under this approved Biosolids Management Plan.
27. Biosolids shall comply with either Class A or Class B pathogen standards as listed
in Appendix B of 40 CFR 503.
28. Biosolids shall comply with one of the vector attraction reduction standards as
listed in 40 CFR 505.33.
29. Biosolids shall be landspread and incorporated into the soil within 24 hours of
arrival at the disposal fields. If the Vector Attraction Reduction alternative 40
CFR 503.33 (b)(IO)(i) is used, the biosolids must be incorporated into the ground
within six (6) hours oflandspreading.
30. Biosolids application rates shall not exceed crop utilization rates, or rates which
cause specific constituents to exceed single, annual, or lifetime application limits
based on:
a. 40 CFR 503, Standard for the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge;
b. Soil Cation Exchange Rates;
c. Soil pH;
d. Nitrogen demand of the crop; and
e. Phytotoxicity.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQIBREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
31. Biosolids shall not be applied to soil with a pH of less than 6.5 -13-
32. Biosolids shall not be applied to water-saturated, snow-covered or frozen groW1d.
33. Biosolids shall not be applied to slopes exceeding 10 degrees, Wlless a certified
agronomist provides sufficient information in the Pre-Application report outlining
site conditions that justify application on steeper slopes. Furtl1ermore, application
to slopes exceeding 10 degrees shall not be allowed from 30 October through
30 April. Biosolids applied to slopes 10 degrees or greater shall be incorporated
li11illediately. Contour tilling shall be required on slopes greater than 10 degrees.
In no case shall biosolids application be made on slopes exceeding 28 degrees.
34. Objectionable odors originating at this facility, as a result of applying biosolids,
shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of the property owned by the
Discharger.
35. Biosolids shall not be applied to land in amoW1ts which cause the following
cumulative loading rates to be exceeded:
Constituents
Arsenic
Cadmium
Chromium
Copper
Lead
Mercury
Molybdenum
Nickel
Selenium
Zinc Cumulative T .oading Bate (kg per hectare)
41
39
3000
1500
300
17
18
420
100
2800
36. To protect groundwater, the application ofbiosolids shall not cause the
biosolids/soil mixture to exceed the following soluble levels (mg/I) when
extracted with distilled water using the Waste Extraction Test (WET) described in
the CCR, Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 30:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQU1REMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019 -14-
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
Concentrations in BiosaHds/Sai) Mixtnre Nat ta he Exceeded
Metal
Cadmium
Copper
Lead
Nickel
Zinc T .imitation (mg/J)
0.1
20.0
0.5
0.134
200.0
3 7. After the last application ofbiosolids in the supplemental field, the Discharger
shall ensure the following:
a. For at least 30 days:
1) Public access to the application site is restricted for land with a low
potential for public exposure;
2) Food, feed, and fiber crops are not harvested; and
3) Grazing by animals is prevented.
b. For at least 14 months:
1) Public access to the site is restricted for land with a high potential for
public exposure;
2) Turf is not to be harvested if the harvested turf is to be placed on land
with a high degree of public exposure; and
3) Grazing of milking animals used in the production of unpasteurized
milk for human consumption is prevented.
c. For at least 14 months:
Food crops with harvested parts that touch the biosolids/soil mixture
and are completely above the land surface are not harvested.
d. For at least 36 months:
Prevent planting of unprocessed food chain crops.
e. For at least 38 months:
Food crops with harvested parts below the land surface are not
harvested, unless the biosolids remained exposed on the ground surface
for at least four months prior to incorporation into the soil.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019 -15-
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY
38. Staging areas, storage areas, and biosolids application shall be at least:
a. 25 feet from property lines;
b. 500 feet from water supply wells or occupied dwellings;
c. 50 feet from public roads;
d. 100 feet from surface waters, including rivers, creeks, ponds, lakes,
marshes, and their tributaries;
e. 10 feet from agricultural dwellings; and
f. I 00 feet from residential developments.
39. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
C. Biosolids Storage Specifications:
Biosolids shall be considered "stored" if they are placed on the ground or in non-mobile
containers (i.e., not in truck or trailer) at the application site or an intermediate storage
location away from the generator/processing site prior to application. "Storage" does not
include biosolids placed on the ground for brief periods of time solely to facilitate transfer
the biosolids between transportation and application vehicles.
1. Biosolids shall not be stored for more than seven consecutive days prior to
application.
2. Biosolids containing free liquids shall not be placed on the ground prior to
application on an approved site.
3. Sites for the storage ofbiosolids shall be located, designed, and maintained to
restrict public access to the biosolids.
4. Biosolids shall not be stored directly on the ground at any one location for more
than seven days in any 60-day period.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -16-
5. Biosolids storage sites which contain biosolids between 1 October and 30 April
shall be designed and maintained to prevent washout or inundation from a stom1
or flood with a return frequency of 100-year.
6. Biosolids storage facilities which contain biosolids between 1 October and
30 April shall be designed and maintained to contain all storm water falling from
a 10-year, 24-hour storm.
7. Biosolids storage facilities shall be designed, maintained, and operated to
minimize the generation ofleachate.
8. Ifbiosolids are to be stored at the site, a plan describing the storage program and
means of complying with this Order shall be submitted for Executive Officer
approval no later than 60-days prior to the storage ofbiosolids. The storage of
biosolids shall not commence until after approval of the plan.
9. The Discharger shall operate the biosolids storage facilities in accordance with the
approved Biosolids Management Plan required in Discharge Specification B.26.
D. Groundwater Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying groundwater
to contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background water
quality, except for coliform. For coliform, increases shall not cause the most probable
number of total coliform organisms to exceed 2.2/100 ml over any 7-day period.
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall not allow pollutant-free wastewater to be discharged into the
collection, treatment, and disposal system in amounts that significantly diminish
the system's capability to comply with this Order. Pollutant-free wastewater
means rainfall, groundwater, cooling waters, and condensates that are essentially
free of pollutants:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQU1REMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -17-
2. The Discharger shall use the best practical cost-effective control technique
currently available to limit mineralization to no more than a reasonable increment.
3. The Discharger shall implement the necessary legal authorities, programs, and
controls to ensure that the following incompatible wastes are not introduced to the
treatment system, where incompatible wastes are:
a. Wastes which create a fire or explosion hazard in the treatment works;
b. Wastes which will cause corrosive structural damage to treatment works,
but in no case wastes with a pH lower than 5.0, unless the works is
specially designed to accommodate such wastes;
c. Solid or viscous wastes in amounts which cause obstruction to flow in
sewers, or which cause other interference with proper operation or
treatment works;
d. Any waste, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.) released
in such volume or strength as to cause inhibition or disruption in the .
treatment works, and subsequent treatment process upset and loss of
treatment efficiency;
e. Heated in amounts that inhibit or disrupt biological activity in the
treatment works, or that raise influent temperatures above 40°C (104°F),
unless the treatment works is designed to accommodate such heat;
f. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
g. Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes
within the treatment works in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems; and
h. Trucked or hauled pollutants, unless predesignated by the Discharger.
4. For the purposes of this Order, "spray irrigation" means application ofrecycled
water to crops by sprinklers.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -18-
5. Recycled water controllers, valves, quick couplers, sprinkler heads etc., shall be
affixed with recycled water warning signs and shall be of a type, or secured in a
manner, that permits operation by authorized personnel only.
6. Piping, valves and outlets shall be marked to differentiate recycled water from
domestic water supply.
7. Supplementing recycled water by connection with a domestic drinking water
source or irrigation or industrial wells requires an air gap device.
8. A contingency plan, including notification of the Board and health agencies, and
outlining action to be taken when effluent quality fails to meet required standards,
shall be submitted within 60 days of adoption of this Order.
9. If the Discharger intends to use recycled water on crops other than those specified
in an accepted land management plan, it shall first submit a written report
demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the Executive Officer, that management of
recycled water and irrigated properties will assure compliance with the terms of
this Order.
10. Neither the distribution or application ofbiosolids shall cause a nuisance or
condition of pollution as defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
11. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No.
5-00-019, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the
Executive Officer.
12. The Discharger shall submit a report with an updated Biosolids Management Plan
prior to the biosolids application to the designated 45-acre supplemental field.
The report must demonstrate Discharger's ability to comply with this Order. In
addition, this report will include, but not be limited to, a monitoring program for
the ditches and stream for the proposed application site. This report may also be
. included with the Pre-Application Report required in Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. 5-00-019.
13. The Discharger shall not apply biosolids until all penmtting requirements for
Lake County have been satisfied.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY \
14. Biosolids reuse authorized by this Order is limited to stabilized wastewater
treatment plant biosolids approved ofby the Executive Officer. The biosolids
must be treated as described in Finding No. 17. -19-
15. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which
are attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
16. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facilities described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding ·owner or
operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be
· immediately forwarded to this office.
17. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement involving disposal or application areas or off-site reuse of effluent,
used to justify the capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with this
Order, the Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of the situation and of what
measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full compliance with this
Order.
18. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in
revision or rescission of this Order.
19. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by
-operating personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
20. If recycled water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most
current edition of"Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction
Purposes". Other uses of recycled water not specifically authorized herein shall
be subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and shall comply with CCR,
Title 22, Division 4.
21. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-019
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE ASSOCIATION
HIDDEN VALLEY LAKE WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
LAKE COUNTY -20-
I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 28 January 2000.
AMENDED
c:\my documents\job files\lake\hidden valley\990923hv.wdr3.doc
SKC:J/28/00