wastewater treatment and
disposal facility. The property (Assessor's Parcel Nos. 04-081, 52-05-01, 52-07-01) is
owned by Tektronix, Incorporated. Additional information was submitted on
4 September 1997.
2. Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 88-111, adopted by the Board on 24 June
1988, prescribe requirements for a discharge from a domestic ( commercial) wastewater
collection system and from a physical-chemical industrial wastewater collection,
treatment, and pond system to an aerated oxidation pond, settling pond, chlorination,
21.6 acre-foot effluent storage pond, and 11.2 acres of spray disposal fields.
3. The industrial wastewater treatment plant and all appendices (pipe lines, treatment tanks,
waste collection sumps) were closed and the industrial wastewater storage pond was
cleaned and sludge properly hauled away and disposed of in 1992. A closure letter dated
August 6, 1994 was provided by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control.
Only domestic wastewater and small quantities of rinse water following washing of
aluminum components and silk screen washing water are now discharged. The
Discharger has requested that waste discharge requirements be revised to reflect the
current operations.
4. Since the beginning of 1994, the Discharger has discharged an average of approximately
2,500 gallons per day (gpd) of wastewater to the treatment and disposal system. Existing
waste discharge requirements and this Order allow a monthly average discharge of
40,000 gpd.
5. Tektronix, Incorporated is in Sections 12 and 13, T16N, R7E, and Sections 7 and 18,
Tl6N, R8E, MDB&M, with surface water drainage to Kentuck')' Ravine, a tributary of
the South Yuba River, as shown in Attachment A, which is attached hereto and part of
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
TEKTRONIX, INCORPORATED
NEV ADA COUNTY
this Order by reference. The site lies within the South Yuba Riv.er hydro logic area -2-
(No. 17.31), as depicted_on interagency hydrologic maps prepared by. the Department of
Water Resources in August 1986.
6. The Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan, Third Edition, (hereafter Basin Plan)
for the Sacramento River Basin and San Joaquin River Basin, which contains water
quality objectives for all waters of the Basin. These requirements implement the Basin
Plan.
7. The beneficial uses of Kentucky Ravine and the South Yuba River are municipal,
industrial, and agricultural supply; recreation; aesthetic enjoyment; navigation;
groundwater recharge; fresh water replenishment; hydropower generation; and
preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife, and other aquatic resources.
8. The beneficial uses of underlying groundwater are domestic, industrial, and agricultural
supply.
9. The Basin Plan encourages reclamation. The Discharger reviewed opportunities for
reclamation and cannot use or increase use of effluent on irrigated land because of the
steepness and limited availability of agricultural land nearby.
10. The action to revise waste discharge requirements for this facility is exempt from the
provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), in accordance with
Title 14, California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 15308.
11. This discharge is exempt from the requirements of Consolidated Regulations for
Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid Waste, as set forth in Title 27, CCR,
Division 2, Subdivision I, Section 20005, et seq., (hereafter Title 27). The exemption,
pursuant to Section 20090(b ), is based on the following:
a. The Board is issuing waste discharge requirements,
b. The discharge complies with the Basin Plan, and,
c. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to 22 CCR, Division 4.5,
Chapter 11, as a hazardous waste.
12. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent to
prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an
opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
TEKTRONIX, INCORPORATED
NEV ADA COUNTY
13. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge. -3-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 88-111 is rescinded and Tektronix, Incorporated,
its agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the provisions contained in Division 7 of the
California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder, shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous', as defined in Sections 252l(a) of Title
23, CCR, Section 2510, et seq., (hereinafter Chapter 15), or 'designated', as defined
in Section 13173 of the California Water Code, is prohibited.
4. Surfacing of wastewater percolating from the reservoirs or irrigation areas is
prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. Neither the treatment nor the discharge shall cause a pollution or nuisance as
defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
2. The monthly average dry weather discharge flow shall not exceed 40,000 gallons per
day.
3. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the
limits of property owned by the Discharger.
4. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 3, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not
be less than 1.0 mg/I.
5. The treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to
prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
6. Effluent discharged from tl1e treatment facility to the storage lagoon shall not exceed
the following limits:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
TEKTRONIX, IN CORPORA TED
NEV ADA COUNTY
Constituent Units
BOD/ mg/I
Settleable Solids ml/I
Total Coliform MPN/
Organisms 100 ml Monthly
Average
40
0.2
23
1Five-day, 20° C Biochemical Oxygen Demand. Daily
Maximum
80
0.5
230
7. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,
Management measures, such as the following, shall be implemented.
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface. -4-
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water
surface.
8. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
9. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
nonirrigation season. Freeboard in the storage lagoon shall never be less than two
feet (measured vertically to the lowest point of overflow). Freeboard in the
treatment pond shall not be less than 24 inches for more than 48 hours nor less than
16 inches at any time.
10. There shall be no standing water in the disposal area 48 hours after wastewater is
applied.
11. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification 9.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
TEKTRONIX, INCORPORATED
NEV ADA COUNTY
C. Sludge Disposal: -5-
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Title 27 and approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice from a previously approved
practice shall be reported to the Executive Officer and U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Administrator at least 90 days in advance of the
change.
3. Use and Disposal of sludge shall comply with existing Federal and State laws and
regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards included in
40 CFR 503.
If the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality Control
Boards are given the authority to implement regulations contained in 40 CFR 503,
this Order may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules and technical
standards. The Discharger must comply with the standards and time schedules
contained in 40 CFR 503 whether or not they have been incorporated into this Order.
4. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual issued by
the Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice for
Landspreading of Sewage Sludge.
D. Groundwater Limitations:
The discharge shall not cause underlying groundwater to be degraded.
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No.
97-256, which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the
Executive Officer.
2. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
3. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or waste discharge
facilities described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
TEKTRONIX,INCORPORATED
NEV ADA COUNTY
operator of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be
immediately forwarded to this office. -6-
4. At least 90 days prior to termination or expiration of any lease, contract, or
agreement, or the sale of any property involving disposal or reclamation areas or off­
site reuse of effluent used to justify the capacity authorized herein and assure
compliance with this Order, the Discharger shall notify the Board in writing of the
situation and of what measures have been taken or are being taken to assure full
compliance with this Order.
5. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control technique
currently available to comply with salinity limits specified in this order.
6. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer.
Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court
orders requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision
or rescission of this Order.
7. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
8. If reclaimed water is used for construction purposes, it shall comply with the most
current edition of"Guidelines for Use of Reclaimed Water for Construction
Purposes". Other uses of reclaimed water not specifically authorized herein shall be
subject to the approval of the Executive Officer and shall comply with 22 CCR,
Division 4.
9. The Board \Vill review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and
correct copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board,
Central Valley Region, on 5 December 1997.
JLE:EAH:njs:dlk /5 December 1997
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 97-256
FOR
TEKTRONIX, INCORPORATED
BITNEY SPRINGS ROAD -GRASS VALLEY
NEV ADA COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established under direction of the Board's staff and a
description of the stations shall be attached to this Order.
EFFLUENT MONITORING
Effluent samples shall be collected at a point following treatment but before discharge to the
storage/disposal facility. Effluent samples should be representative of the volume and nature of
the discharge. Time of collection of a grab sample shall be recorded. Effluent monitoring shall
include at least the following:
Sampling
Constituents Units Tvpe of Sample Frequencv
Flow gpd Cumulative Weekly
Freeboard in Treatment Pond Inches Grab Weekly
BOD5 mg/! Grab Monthly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/lOOml Grab Monthly
Settleable Matter ml/I Grab Monthly
pH pH Units Grab Monthly
Chemical O>..;'gen mg/I Grab Monthly
Demand (COD)
Total Recoverable Aluminum µg/1 Grab Quarterly
Total Recoverable Copper µg/1 Grab Quarterly
Total Recoverable Lead µg/1 Grab Quarterly
Total Recoverable Nickel µg/1 Grab Quarterly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM
TEKTRONIX, INCORPORATED
NEV ADA COUNTY
SLUDGE MONITORING -2-
A composite sample of sludge shall be collected from the aeration pond every other year in
accordance with EP A's POTW Sludge Sampling and Analysis Guidance Document, August 1989,
and tested for the following metals:
Aluminum
Copper Lead
Nickel
Sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of five years. A log shal! be kept of sludge
quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency of entries is
discretionary; however, the log should be complete enough to serve as a basis for part of the
biennial report.
REPORTING
Monitoring reports shall be submitted quarterly to the Regional Board by the 30th day of the
first month of the next quarter.
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that the
date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data shall be
summarized in such a manner to illustrate clearly the compliance with waste discharge
requirements.
The results of any monitoring done more frequently than required at the locations specified in the
Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported to the Board.
Upon written request of the Board, the Discharger,shall submit a report to the Board by
30 January of each year. The report shall contain both tabular and graphical summaries of the
monitoring data obtained during the previous year. In addition, the Discharger shall discuss the
compliance record and the corrective actions taken or planned which may be needed to bring the
discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements. The Discharger shall
implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.
5 December 1997
JLE:EAH:njs:dlk/5 December 1997
,,
·.
I ... .~ ... . -... : ; , • r
..... ~ '...J...,
• ..... I
l ' ATTACHMENT A
. -t""-. -•. ' . f~ ~-----t--. ~: .. : ,,;·
: ' - . - ;..-j l ....,,,....___ ___ . f \ '
•,
-:--~"'- __'.,1__'_: ··\!~ i.
I -
l -+---
1 N f
,.,
'f'
TEKTRONIX, INC. · .. · ·&' --
· -~-·-· 1 Ii it' I t.J.J ·~ l' ..
Sections 12 & 13, T16N, R7E
Sections 7 & 18, T16N, R8E
MDB&M
Nevada County
Scale: 1 inch = 4,500 feet
INFORMATION SHEET
TEKTRONIX, INCORPORATED
BITNEY SPRINGS ROAD -GRASS VALLEY
NEV ADA COUNTY
Tektronix, Incorporated (formerly Grass Valley Group) submitted a request for revision of the
waste discharge requirements for its facility on Bitney Springs Road. Order No. 88-111
prescribes requirements for a discharge from a domestic ( commercial) wastewater collection
system and from a physical-chemical industrial wastewater collection, treatment, and pond
system to an aerated oxidation pond, settling pond, chlorination, 21.6 acre-foot effluent storage
pond, and 11.2 acres of spray disposal fields. The industrial wastewater treatment plant and all
appendices (pipe lines, treatment tanks, waste collection sumps) were closed and the industrial
wastewater storage pond was cleaned and sludge properly hauled away and disposed of in 1992.
A closure letter dated August 6, 1994 was provided by the California Department of Toxic
Substances Control. The rest of the wastewater system remains as before. Only domestic
wastewater and small quantities of rinse water following washing of aluminum components and
silk screen washing water are now discharged.
Since the beginning of 1994, the Discharger has discharged an average of approximately
2,500 gallons per day of wastewater to the treatment and disposal system. The system is
designed to treat 40,000 gallons per day, which this Order allows, as did Order No. 88-111. This
Order has less stringent disinfection requirements than previous Orders because of the very low
probability of human contact with the wastewater following treatment. The Discharger has
stated that the system is designed to contain the JOO-year storm event. Quarterly monitoring.for
four metals is required to ensure that metal component washwater is properly retained in the
closed loop washing system, and not discharged to the sanitary wastewater system.
JLE:njs:/5 December 1997