wastewater treatment and disposal facilities are owned and operated by the Discharger.
3. Order No. 86-156, adopted by the Board on 8 August 1986, prescribes requirements for an
extended aeration package treatment plant, a polishing pond, and discharge to percolation beds.
Order No. 86-156 is neither adequate nor consistent with current plans and policies of the Board.
4. Yosemite Lakes Campground is located on approximately 12 acres ofland at an elevation of
3,700 feet. The facility is at 31191 Hardin Flat Road, off State Highway 120, approximately 18
miles east of Groveland. The wastewater treatment and disposal facilities are in Section 36, Tl S,
Rl SE, MDB&M with surface water drainage to the South Fork Tuolurpne River as shown in
Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of the Order by reference.
5. Yosemite Lakes Campground provides 431 campsites. The site facilities can accommodate
approximately 2,150 people. During the off-season, from October through April, the facility is
occupied only by a small number of employees ( approximately five). ·
6. Recreational vehicles can connect to the waste collection system. There are provisions for 267
recreational vehicle connections. The 164 campsites which are not connected to the sewer
system are served by public toilets arid showers.
7. The wastewater treatment plant is designed to treat average dry weather flows up to 50,000
gallons per day (gpd). Wastewater generation at the facility is seasonal. Peak flows occur
between May and September. Typical flow rates in the summer months are 20,000 to 30,000
gpd; typical flow rates in the non-summer months are 2,000 to 5,000 gpd.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQU~N[ENTS,01.li)ER; NO,. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC,
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
' ' -2-
8. Wastewater flows through a gravity sewer syst~~ to a central pump station, where it is pumped
to the package treatment plant. The package .treatment plant discharges to a polishing/percolation
pond, which in tum discharges to leachfields which occupy an ¥"e8: of approximately two acres.
The polishing pond is equipped with a spray aeration device which recirculates the wastewater in
the pond. · ' ·· · · ·
9. Sludge and grit are re-circulated within the treatment plant. The plant clarifier returns both
settled and floating materials to the plant headworks, in a plug flow operation. Excess biosolids
within the plant are partly to completely oxidized in one aeration tank chiririg the months of .
October and November.
10. The system operates year round. The pond do.es not freeze in the winter;
11. Annual precipitation at Yosemite Lakes' Campground is approximately 35 inches. The annual
evaporation rate for this area is reported to be 50 inches per year.
, 1r,: ,· '1,,:; , ; ';>. ,J ; , ,. 'l, ,
12. Domestic water supply is.p.rovided,by a spring, which is outside the NACO West basin.and
approximately 4,000. feet away fr,om, ·and tpppgraphically higher than the wast~water tr~,atment
plant. Water is chlorinated ~nd treated ~ith sand filters and carbon pnor to 'storage and delivery.
; •· I • , \ , I ,11' )
13.. The site lies within the San Joaquin Basin, Hydrologic UnitNo. 536.80, as depicted on
inter~gency hydrologic maps prepared by the Department of Water Resourc~s,in _A-11cy~t)~86.
14. The Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan, Fourth Edition, for the Sacram~nto River
Basin and the San J~aquin River Basin (hereafter Basin Plan), which contains wat'ei q~ality
objectives for all water of the; ,Basin. These requirements implement the Basin Plan.
15. The beneficial uses of the Tuolumne River via South Fork Tuolumne River are municipal,
industrial, and agricultural supply; recreation; aesthetic enjoyment; na;igation; fresh water
replenishment; preservation and enhancement of fish, wild\ife, and. oth~r aquatic resources.
16. Beneficial uses of the underlying groundwater in the camp include domestic, industrial, and
agricultural supply. · ·
17. The action to· update waste discharge'requirements for this facility is exempt from the provisions
of the Califomia'Environmental Quality Act (CEQA),'in accordance w,ith Title 14,Califorhia
Code ofRegulations.(CCR), Section 15301.
18. This discharge is exempt from the reqtiirements ofTitle'27, CCR, Section 20080, et seq. The
exemption, pursuant to Sectii:m20090 (b), is based on the following:
' ' • • _j' \ • i . J '
a. the Board is issuihgwaste discharge tequiterhehts, and .
b. the discharge complies with the Basin Plan, and
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAJLS, INC.
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLillv1NE COUNTY -3-
c. the wastewater does not need to be managed according to 22 CCR, Division 4.5, Chapter 11
as hazardous waste.
19. The Board has notified the Discharger, interested agencies, and persons of its intent to prescribe
waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with an opportunity for a
public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and recommendations.
20. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Order No. 86-156 is rescinded and that Yosemite Lakes Campground,
N aco West, and Thousand Trails Inc., their agents, successors, and assigns, in order to meet the
provisions contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder,
· shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of waste to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' under Section 2521, Chapter 15 of Title 23 or
'designated', as defined in Section 13173 of California Water Code is prohibited.
4. Surfacing of wastewater in the leachfield is prohibited.
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. The disposal flow to the designated disposal area shall not exceed the capacity of the
leachfields. The leachfield shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow as well as inflow and infiltration during the wet season.
2. The average dry weather discharge flow shall not exceed 50,000 gallons per day,
3. The leachfields shall be maintained so that at no time will sewage surface at any location.
4. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the limits of
the wastewater treatment and disposal areas, including the leachfield area.
5. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 3, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not be less than
1.0 mg/1.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORPER NO. ~-00-054.
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC.
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -4-
6. · The Discharger's wa.stewater trea~ment plant shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
7. The storage pond shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
8. The storage pond shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. · In particular,
.. .
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are not
created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized thr~ugh control of water depth/harvesting, or herbicides.
C. Dead algae, vegetation, an~ debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
9. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences, signs, and ·
other acceptable alternatives.
10, The storage pond shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater
flow, designed seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflo\\/and infiltration. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be bas~d on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100 years,
distributed monthly in accordance with the historical rainfall patterns.
11. Freeboard shall never be Jess than tW,o feet, as measured vertically fromithe water surface to
the lowest dike or levee.
12. On or about 1 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications No. -10 and No. 11.
13. Treated wastewater effluent shall not exceed the discharge limits presented below. The
limits.are based on water quality criteria designed to protect all beneficial uses of the
underlying groupdwater. If two monitoring events show the effluent exceeds the limits
presented below, then within 90 days ofrequest by the Executive Officer, the Discharger
shall subrr:iita technical report which describes how compliance will .be i:iccomplislrnd.
Installation of groundwater monitoring wells may be required if wastewater does not meet
the listed effluent-standards.
Treatment Plant Effluent . ,., Units Monthly Daily
Constituent Average Maximum
BODs mg/1 40. 80
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 40 80
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC. -5-
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
C. Pond Effluent Constituent Units Monthly Daily
Average Maximum
Nitrate (as Nitrogen) mg/1 10 20
Ammonia (as Nitrogen) mg/1 0.5 1.0
Zinc mg/1 2.1 5.0
Phenol mg/1 0.005 4.2
Formaldehyde mg/1 0.030 0.60
Sludge Disposal
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with both Title 27, Division 2, Subdivision 1 and
Title 23, Division 3, Chapter 15 of the California Code of Regulations and approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice from a previously approved
practice shall be reported to this office Executive Officer and U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Administrator at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3.. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing Federal and State laws and
regulations, including permitting requirements and technical standards included in 40 CFR
503. If the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality Control
Boards are given the authority to implement regulation contained in 40 CFR 503, this Order
may be reopened to incorporate appropriate time schedules and technical standards. The
Discharger must comply with the standards and time schedules contained in 40 CFR 503
whether or not they have been incorporated into this Order.
D. Groundwater Limitations
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying groundwater to
contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background water quality,
except for coliform bacteria. For coliform bacteria, increases shall not cause the most probable
number of total coliform organisms to exceed 2.2 MPN/ml over any 7-dayperiod.
E. Provisions
1. By 30 June 2000, the Discharger ·shall submit a Polishing Pond Storage Capacity
Evaluation workplan to determine (a) whether the pond meets the storage capacity
requirements of Discharge Specifications No. B.10 and B.11, (b) the current depth of
sludge in the pond, and ( c) procedures to monitor the future depth of sludge in the pond.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO, 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC.
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
2. Within 90 days of staff approval of the workplan, the Discharger shall submit a
Polishing Pond Storage Capacity report .. The report shall include· a proposal for cleaning
the sludge out of the pond on a regular basis. If the report shows that the pond does not
meet the·capacity requirem.ents of this Order, then the Discharger shall also provide a
workpfan and proposed timeline to bring .the pond into compliaµce with this 9rder.
3. The Discharger shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program No,. 5-00-54,
which is part of this Order, a~d any revisions thereto as ordered by the Ex;cutive Officer.
' . ,"' -6-
4. The Dis.charger shall co:qiply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting J,leqp.irements
for Waste Discharge Requirements", dated 1 March 1991, which are attached hereto and by
reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its individual paragraphs are commonly
referenced as "Standard Provision(s)."
5. The Discharger shall use the best practicable cost-effective control techniques(~) currently
available to ni.inimiie mineralization and to comply with the discharg~ limits specified in
this Order.
6. The Discharger shall report promptly to the Board any material change or proposed change
.· inthe character, location, or volum~ of the discharge .
. 7. The Discharger shall submit to the Board, on ot before each compliance repdrfidue date, the
specified document, or if appropriate, a written report detailing compliance 'di ·
noncompliance with the specific schedule date and task. If noncompliance is reported, then
the Discharger shall .state the reasons for noncompliance and shall pfovfde' a schedule to
come into compliance.
8. Package treatment plant cleanings removing grit and biosolids shall be performed only by a
duly authorized service.
9. In the event of any change in control or ownership ofland or waste discharge facilities
described herein, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner or operator of the
existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be immediately forw9-rded to this
office. '·· ' ·
10. At least 90 days prior to tem1ination or expiration of any lease, contract; or agreement
'involving disposal or reclamation areas or off-site reuse of effluent, used to justify the
capacity authorized herein and assure compliance with their Order, the Discharger shall
notify the Board in writing of the situation and of what measures have been taken or are
being taken to assure full compliance with this Order.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC.
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -7-
11. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely submittal
of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. Violations may
result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court orders requiring correction
action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or rescission of this Order. ·
12. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the discharge facility for reference by operating
personnel. Key operating personnel shall be familiar with its contents.
13. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when necessary.
I, GARY M. CARLTON, Executive Officer, do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true, and correct
copy of an Order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Valley
Region, on 17 March 2000.
JRM:3/17 /00
' --\
CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-054
FOR
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC.
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
WAS TEW ATER TREATMENTAND DISPOSAL FACILITY
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
This monitoring and reporting program (MRP) incorporates requirements for monitoring of the
treatment process, stored effluent, and leachfield. This MRP is issued pursuant to Water Code Section
13267. The Discharger shall not implement any changes to this MRP unless and until a revised MRP is
issued by the Executive Officer. Specific sample station locations shall be approved by Executive
Officer prior to implementation of sampling activities.
PACKAGE TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT MONITORING
The following shall constitute the effluent monitoring program:
Type of Sampling/Reporting
Constituent Units Sample Frequency
Flow Gpd Cumulative Continuous
BODs mg/1 Grab Monthly
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 Grab Monthly
BOD5 denotes 5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand at 2o·c
POND EFFLUENT MONITORING
Pond effluent samples shall be collected prior to discharge to the leachfield. Samples should be
representative of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection of grab samples shall be
recorded, and shall be between 0800 and 0900 hours. The following shall constitute the pond effluent
monitoring program:
Type of Sampling/Reporting
Constituent Units Sample Frequency
Pond Freeboard feet Measurement Monthly
PH .pH Units Grab Monthly
Dissolved Oxygen mg/1 Grab Monthly
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/lOOmll Grab Quarterly
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS INC. ,
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
Constituent
Nitrate (as nitrogen)
Ammonia (as nitrogren)
Formaldehyde
Zinc
Phenol Units
m·g/1
mg/1
mg/1
mg/1
tng/1 -2-
Type of Sampling/Reporting
· Sample Frequency
Grab Monthly
Grab Monthly
Grab Quarterly
Grab Quarterly
Gra:b Quarteriy,
LEACHFIELD MONITORING
Leachfield monitoring will consist of visual inspection of the leachfield and nearby area. The leachfield
and the area downslope of the leachfield shall be inspected on a monthly basis for the presence of wet ..
areas, leachate or groundwater seepage, objectionable odors, and/or unexpected plant growth.
Leachfield monitoring' results shall be included with all monthly monitoring reports.
REPORTING
In reporting monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data in tabular form so that'tiie'.date,
sample type ( e.g., influent, effluent, etc.), and reported analytical result for each sampl~_are ,re?,dily
discernible. The data shall be summarized in such a manner to clearly illustrate compliance with waste
discharge requirements and spatial or temporal trends; as applicable. A narrative description of the
leachfield monitoring shall identify the inspector, date, and statements addressing, at a minimum, all the
items listed above. The results of any monitoring done mo_re frequently than required at the locations
· specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program shall be reported to the Regional Board in the next
regularly scheduled monitoring report.
A. Month,ly Reports
C ' .,
Monthly Monitoring Reports for influent, and leachfield monitoring shall be submitted to.th~ Regional .
Board by the 30th day of the following month. .· · ,
B. Annual Monitoring Report
The De~ember Monthly Report (due by 30 January of each year) shall also serve as an Annual
Monitoring Report. At a minimum, the Annual Monitoring Report shall include the following:
1. The -contents of a regular tri~mthly report.
MONITORING AND 'REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS INC.
YOSEMITE LAKES CAMPGROUND
TUOLUMNE COUNTY . -3-
2. If requested by the Executive Officer, tabular and graphical summaries of all monitoring data
obtained during the previous year (including influent, leachfield, and pond data).
3. A discussion of compliance and the corrective action taken, as well as any planned or proposed
actions needed to bring the discharge into full compliance with the waste discharge requirements.
4. A discussion of any data gaps and potential deficiencies/redundancies in the monitoring system or
reporting program.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program as of the date of this Order.
Ordered by:
1 7 March 2000
(Date)
JRM: 3/17/00
INFORMATION SHEET
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-054
NACO WEST AND THOUSAND TRAILS, INC.
WAS TEW ATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
On 28 December 1999, N aco West, and Thousand Trails, Inc. (hereafter Discharger) submitted a
Report of Waste Discharge to discharge its treated wastewater to land. The wastewater treatment
and disposal facilities are owned and operated by the Discharger. The discharge is occurring at
Yosemite Lakes Campground, which occupies approximately 12 acres. The site is at 31191
Hardin Flat Road, approximately 3,700 feet above mean sea level, approximately 18 miles east of
Groveland, Tuolumne County. Camp facilities include 431 campsites, 267 of which provide
recreational vehicle connection to the wastewater system.
The campground operates year round but the majority of visitors arrive between May and
September. From October to April the facility is normally occupied by approximately five
employees. During the peak summer occupancy period, the campground can accommodate
approximately 2,150 people. Flow rates vary from approximately 2;000 to 5,000 gallons per day
(gpd) in the non-summer months, to approximately 20,000 to 30,000 gpd in the summer months.
Wastewater is treated in a package treatment plant, a polishing pond, and .. discharge to
percolation beds. The capacity of the wastewater system is 50,000 gpd. Wastewater is collected
in a gravity sewer system to a central pumping station, where it is pumped to the package
treatment plant. The oxidation pond has a spray aeration device which recirculates the
wastewater in the pond. The wastewater treatment plant operates year-round. Wastewater is not
disinfected prior to discharge.
JRM: 3/17/00
C:\My Documcms\MSOOOWSW\JRlvt\Yos_!akcs.inf.OOC
ATTACHMENT A