WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
7. The treatment system is an extended aeration plant with a design average daily flow rate
of 25,000 gpd, and a maximum daily flow rate of 53,000 gpd. The facility process
includes an aeration tank, clarifier and chlorine contact chamber. Treated effluent will
be discharged to an unlined 13 acre-foot pond.
8. The characteristics of the treated wastewater as described in the Report of Waste
Discharge are:
Constituents
BOD5
Total Suspended Solids
Total Coliform
pH Concentrations
30 mg/1
30 mg/1
23 MPN/100 ml
6.5 to 8.5
9. The Board adopted a Water Quality Control Plan, Second Edition, for the Sacramento
River (SA) Basin (hereafter Basin Plan), which contains water quality objectives for all
waters of the Basin. These requirements implement the Basin Plan.
10. The beneficial uses of Lake Berryessa are municipal, industrial, and agricultural supply;
recreation; aesthetic enjoyment; ground water recharge; fresh water replenishment;
hydroelectric power generation; and preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife and
other aquatic resources.
11. The beneficial uses of the underlying ground water are municipal, industrial, and
agricultural supply.
12. The California Department of Health Services has established statewide reclamation
criteria in Title 22, California Code of Regulations, Section 60301, et seq. (hereafter
Title 22) for the use of reclaimed water and has developed guidelines for specific uses.
These uses are consistent with those guidelines.
13. Spanish Flat Water District has certified a final Negative Declaration in accordance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section
21000, et seq.) and the State CEQA Guidelines. The project as approved may have the
following significant impacts on air and water quality:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS -3-
SPANISH FLAT WATER DISTRICT, Er AL.
SPANISH FLAT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
a. The continued and expanded disposal of treated wastewater through spray irrigation
may subject the community to aerosols.
b. Potential sources of odors in wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
facilities.
c. Potential for contamination of surface water by discharge of partially treated
wastewater due to pump station failure.
d. Potential for contamination of surface water by runoff of irrigation water from
irrigation areas.
14. The Board has reviewed the Negative Declaration and compliance with these waste
discharge requirements will mitigate or avoid the significant impacts on air and water
quality listed in Finding No. 13. Specific mitigation measures correspond to the
alphabetically listed impacts in Finding No. 13 and are as follows:
a. The Monticello Cemetery will only be irrigated when the public will not have
access. The sprinkler systems at the existing spray irrigation field and the
Monticello Cemetery should be evaluated for fine mist that has a greater potential
for drift. If necessary, the sprinkler heads and distribution system should be
modified. Discharge Specification B.15 requires that direct and wind blown spray
be confined to the reclamation areas. Specification B.16 prohibits spray irrigation
when wind speed exceeds 30 mph.
b. Design consideration for odor control should include locating the treatment facility
on a well ventilated site, providing sufficient scouring velocities in pipes, providing
sufficient aeration in the treatment process for oxidation of the organic compounds,
and providing a means to add aeration, chlorine or other disinfectants and odorizing
agents to pump stations and manholes. Operational considerations should include
providing high pressure connections for hoses for daily flushing of walls and
corners to prevent any accumulation of slime or sludge, providing a section in the
operations and maintenance manual on odor control, providing regular inspection
and maintenance and minimizing the time of draining the last foot or two of water
in the storage reservoir. Discharge Specification B.3 prohibits objectionable odors
outside the facility.
c. A new pump station will be constructed with an automatic switch over to auxiliary
power should a power outage occur.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
SPANISH FLAT WATER DISTRICT, ET AL.
SPANISH FLAT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
d. The existing spray irrigation area will be upgraded for an improved tailwater return
system and Monticello Cemetery will be equipped with a tailwater return system.
These facilities will eliminate leakage and discharges. Discharge Specification
B.17 requires that the wastewater remain in the designated disposal areas at all
times.
15. This discharge is exempt from the requirements of Title 23, CCR, Section 2510, et seq.
(hereafter Chapter 15). The exemption, pursuant to Section 2511(0), is based on the
following:
a. The Board is issuing waste discharge requirements, and
b. The discharge complies with the Basin Plan, and
c. The wastewater does not need to be managed according to 22 CCR, Division 4,
Chapter 30, as a hazardous waste.
16. The Board has notified the Discharger and interested agencies and persons of its intent
to prescribe waste discharge requirements for this discharge and has provided them with
an opportunity for a public hearing and an opportunity to submit their written views and
recommendations.
17. The Board, in a public meeting, heard and considered all comments pertaining to the
discharge.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Spanish Flat Water District, Monticello Cemetery District,
and Napa County, their agents, successors and assigns, in order to meet the provisions
contained in Division 7 of the California Water Code and regulations adopted thereunder,
shall comply with the following:
A. Discharge Prohibitions:
1. Discharge of wastes to surface waters or surface water drainage courses is
prohibited.
2. Bypass or overflow of untreated or partially treated waste is prohibited.
3. Discharge of waste classified as 'hazardous' or 'designated', as defined in Sections
2521(a) and 2522(a) of Chapter 15, is prohibited.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS -5-
SPANISH FLAT WATER DISTRICT, ET AL.
SPANISH FLAT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
B. Discharge Specifications:
1. The average monthly dry weather discharge flow shall not exceed 0.025 mgd.
2. The maximum daily discharge shall not exceed 0.053 mgd.
3. Objectionable odors originating at this facility shall not be perceivable beyond the
limits of the wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
4. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 3, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall
not be less than 1. 0 mg/1.
5. The treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to
prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return frequency.
6. The effluent from the treatment facility shall not exceed the following limits:
Monthly Daily
Constituent Units Average Maximum
BOD/ mg/1 30 60
Suspended Solids mg/1 30 60
Settleable Solids ml/1 0.2 0.5
Coliform MPN/lOOml 23 Median 240
1 Five-day, 20°c biochemical oxygen demand
7. Treatment plant effluent shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.5.
8. There shall be no standing water in the disposal areas 48 hours after wastewater is
applied.
9. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and
irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS -6-
SPANISH FLAT WATER DISTRICT, ET AL.
SPANISH FLAT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth,
harvesting, or herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
10. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
11. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration during the
nonirrigation season. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual
precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance
with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be less than one foot
(measured vertically).
12. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification No. 11.
13. Areas irrigated with reclaimed water shall be managed to prevent breeding of
mosquitos. More specifically,
a. Tail water must be returned and all applied irrigation water must infiltrate
completely within a 48-hour period.
b. Ditches not serving as wildlife habitat should be maintained free of emergent,
marginal, and floating vegetation.
c. Low-pressure and unpressurized pipelines and ditches accesssible to mosquitos
shall not be used to store reclaimed water.
14. Reclaimed water for irrigation shall be managed to minimize erosion, runoff, and
movement of aerosols from the disposal areas.
15. Direct or windblown spray shall be confined to the designated reclamation areas
and prevented from contacting drinking water facilities.
16. The Discharger may not spray irrigate effluent during periods of precipitation and
for at least 24 hours after cessation of precipitation, or when winds exceed 30 mph.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS -7-
SPANISH FLAT WATER DISTRICT, Er AL.
SPANISH FLAT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
17. The discharge shall remain within designated disposal areas at all times.
18. Signs with proper wording of sufficient size shall be placed at areas of access and
around the perimeter of all areas used for effluent disposal to alert the public of the
use of reclaimed water.
19. Stormwater runoff from the irrigation areas shall not be discharged to any surface
water drainage course within 48-hours of the last application of reclaimed water.
20. Application of reclaimed wastewater to the reclamation area shall be at reasonable
rates considering the crop, soil, climate and irrigation management system. The
nutrient loading of the reclamation area, including the nutritive value of organic
and chemical fertilizers and of the reclaimed water, shall not exceed the crop
demand.
21. There shall be no irrigation or impoundment of reclaimed water within 500 feet of
any domestic water well or within 100 feet of any irrigation well unless it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Executive Officer that less distance is
justified.
C. Sludge Disposal:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15 and approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual issued by
the Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice for
Landspreading of Sewage Sludge, and Standards for the Use or Disposal of Sewage
Sludge, issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 40 CFR 503.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying ground
water to:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS -8-
SPANISH FLAT WATER DISTRICT, ET AL.
SPANISH FLAT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
NAPA COUNTY
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than