wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. Neither the treatment nor the discharger shall cause a nuisance or condition of
pollution as defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050.
4. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. 2, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not
be Jess than 1. 0 mg/1.
5. Toe treatment facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to
prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a .100-year return frequency.
6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are
not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. Public contact with wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences,
signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
8. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to acco=odate allowable wastewater flow and
design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration. Freeboard shall
never be less than two feet, measured vertically.
9. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification B.8.
(7~
\ ... __ /
-WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
WOODBRIDGE SANITARY DISTRICT
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
C. Sludge Disposal: -4-
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15 and approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
3. The Discharger is encouraged to comply with the State Guidance Manual issued by
the Department of Health Services titled Manual of Good Practice for Landspreading
of Sewage Sludge.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying ground
water to:
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than