wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. B.2, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall
not be less than 1.0 mg/1.
4. The effluent from the aerated ponds shall not exceed the following limits:
Monthly
Constituent Units Average
BOD51 mg/1 30
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 30
Total Coliform Organisms MPN/100 ml 23
Settleable Solids ml/1 0.1
1 5-day, 20° Celsius biochemical oxygen demand.
5. Ponds shall not have a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.5 Daily
Maximum
60
60
240
0.2
6. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitos. In particular:
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities
are not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides. ·
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the \Vater surface.
7. Public contact with wastewater in the treatment and disposal areas shall be.
precluded through such means as fences, signs, and other acceptable alternatives.
8. Ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow
and design seasonal precipitation and ancillary inflow and infiltration throughout
i
!
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
CANYON FORK PROPERTIES WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
the year. Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual -5-
precipitation using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance
with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard shall never be less than two feet
(measured vertically).
9. On or about 1 October of each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specification No. B.8. ·
C. Sludge Disposal Specifications:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall
be disposed of in a manner that is consistent with Chapter 15 and approved by the
Executive Officer. ·
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the change.
D. Ground Water Limitations:
The discharge, in combination with other sources, shall not cause· underlying ground
water to:
1. Contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than