wastewater treatment and disposal areas.

10. The discharger shall prevent formation of habitat for carriers of pathogenic microorganisms in any part of the treatment and disposal system.

WDR Standard Provisions -2- December 5, 2013
11. Petroleum products, grease, or scum shall not be visible on disposal ponds.

12. The discharger shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed or used by the discharger to achieve compliance with the conditions of this order.
Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate funding, adequate operator staff and training, and adequate laboratory and process controls, including appropriate quality assurance procedures. Proper operation and maintenance shall be described in an Operation and Maintenance Manual.

13. Electrical and mechanical equipment shall be maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and standards, such as NFPA 70B, Recommended Practice for Electrical Equipment Maintenance; NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace; ANSI/NETA MTS Standard for Maintenance: Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems, or procedures established by insurance companies or other industry resources.

14. If the discharger’s facilities are equipped with SCADA or other systems that implement wireless, remote operation, the discharger shall implement appropriate safeguards against unauthorized access to the wirel ess systems. Standards such
as NIST SP 800 -53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information
Systems, can provide guidance.

15. Transport and treatment facilities and permanent disposal ponds shall be adequately protected against overflow, flooding, or washout as the result of a 100- year
frequency flood or 100 -year, 24- hour storm.

16. All disposal areas shall be on land owned or leased and controlled by the
discharger.

17. Operation of collection, treatment, and disposal systems shall be in a manner that precludes public contact with wastewater.

18. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be disposed of in a manner consistent with Part 503 in Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations or Section 20005 et seq. of Title 27 of the California Code of
Regulations and as approved by the Executive Officer.

19. Wastewater treatment plants shall be supervised and operated by persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to the California Water Code
and Title 23 of t he California Code of Regulations.

20. The discharger shall allow Central Coast Water Board and staff , or an authorized
representative (including an authorized contractor acting as a representative of the Board), upon presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law, to :

WDR Standard Provisions -3- December 5, 2013
a. Enter upon premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or
conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this order.

b. Have access to and copy , at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of this order.

c. Inspect at reasonable times any facility, equipment (including monitoring and
control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this
order.

d. Photograph, sample, or monitor for the purpose of showing compliance with this order any substances or parameters at any location.

21. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this order may be terminated or modified for cause, including, but not limited to:

a. Violation of any term or condition co ntained in this order.

b. Obtaining this order by misrepresentation, or by failure to disclose fully all relevant facts.
 c. A change in any condition or endangerment to human health or environment
that requires a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
 d. A material change in character, location, or volume of the discharge.

22. The order does not authorize commission of any act causing injury to the property of another, does not convey any property rights of any sort, does not remove liability under federal, state, or local laws, and does not guarantee a capacity right.

23. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge
or sludge use or disposal in violation of this order that has a reasonable likelihood of adversely affecting human health or the environment.

24. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct adverse impacts on the environment resulting from noncompliance with this order.

25. Provisions of this order are severable. If any provision of the order is found invalid, the remainder of the order shall not be affected.

26. The discharger shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any information the Central Coast Water Board may request to determine compliance with this order or to determine whether cause exists for modifying or terminating this order. The discharger shall also furnish to the B oard upon request copies of records required to
be kept by this order.

WDR Standard Provisions -4- December 5, 2013
27. Safeguards shall be provided to ensure maximal compliance with all terms and
conditions of this order. Safeguards shall include preventative and contingency plans and may also include alternative power sources, stand- by generators,
retention capacity, operating procedures, or other precautions. Preventative and contingency plans for controlling and minimizing the effect of accidental discharges shall:

a. Identify possible situations that could cause "upset," “overflow," “bypass," or other noncompliance. (Loading and storage areas, power outage, waste treatment unit outage, and failure of process equipment, tanks, or pipes should be considered.)
b. Evaluate the effectiveness of present facil ities and procedures and describe
procedures and steps to minimize or correct any adverse environmental impact resulting from noncompliance with the order.

28. Physical facilities shall be designed and constructed according to accepted engineering practice a nd shall be capable of full compliance with this order when
properly operated and maintained. Proper operation and maintenance shall be described in an Operation and Maintenance Manual.

29. Facilities shall be accessible during the wet weather season.

30. Should additional data become available through monitoring or investigation that indicates compliance with this order is not adequately protecting groundwater, the Central Coast Water Board may review and revise this order as appropriate.

B. General Monit oring Requirements

1. Monitoring location, minimum sampling frequency, and sampling method for each parameter shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program of this order. Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures approved under 40 CF R
Part 136, entitled "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants," unless other test procedures have been specified in this order.

2. If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes in the permitted facility or activity that may result in noncompliance.

7. The discharger shall file a report of waste discharge or secure a waiver from the
Executive Officer at least 120 days before making any material change or proposed change in the character, location, or volume of the discharge.

8. An engineering report as specified by Section 603 23, Chapter 3, Title 22, of the
California Code of Regulations is required, and written approval of the Executive Officer must be received by the discharger and user, before reclaimed water is supplied for any uses and to any users other than those enumera ted in this order.

9. Within 120 days after the discharger discovers, or is notified by the Central Coast Water Board, that monthly average daily flow will or may reach design capacity of waste treatment and/or disposal facilities within four years, the disc harger shall file a
written report with the Central Coast Water Board. The report shall include:

a. The best estimate of when the monthly average daily dry weather a flow rate will equal or exceed design capacity.

b. A schedule for studies, design, and other s teps needed to provide additional
capacity for waste treatment and/or disposal facilities before the waste flow rate equals the capacity of present units.

WDR Standard Provisions -7- December 5, 2013
In addition to complying with paragraphs C.14 and C.15, the required technical
report shall be prepared with public participation and reviewed, approved, and jointly
submitted by all planning and building departments having jurisdiction in the area served by the waste collection, treatment, or disposal facilities.

10. The discharger shall submit reports required by this order by email to: centralcoast@waterboards.ca.gov .

11. Transfer of control or ownership of a waste discharge facility must be preceded by a notice to the Central Coast Water Board at least 30 days in advance of the proposed transfer date. The notice must include a written agreement between the existing discharger and proposed discharger containing specific date for transfer of responsibility, coverage, and liability between them. Whether an order may be transferred without modification and a public hearing is at the discretion of the Board. If order modification is necessary, transfer may be delayed 120 days after the
Central Coast Water Board’s receipt of a complete Report of Waste Discharge.

12. Except for data determined to be confidential under Section 13267(b) of the California Water Code, all reports prepared in accordance with this order shall the available for public inspection at the office of the Central Coast Water Board.

13. Should th e discharger discover that it failed to submit any relevant facts or that it
submitted incorrect information in a report, it shall promptly submit the missing or
incorrect information.

14. All reports shall be signed by one of the following:

a. For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president.

b. For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively.

c. For a public agency: by either a principal executive officer or ranking elected
official.

d. A "duly authorized representative" of one of the above.

15. Any person signing a report makes the following certification, whether it is expressed or implied:
 I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons dir ectly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware
WDR Standard Provisions -8- December 5, 2013
that there are significant penalties of submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.

16. By January 30 of each year, the discharger shall submit an annual report to the Central Coast Water Board. The report shall contain the following:

a. Both tabular and graphical summaries of the monitoring data obtained during the previous year. Duplicate copies of monthly reports are not necessary and do not fulfill requirements for summaries.

b. A discussion of the previous year’s compliance record (including any and all incidents of noncompliance) and corrective actions taken, or which may be
needed, to bring the discharger into full compliance.

c. An evaluation of wastewater flows with projected flow rate increases over time and the estimated date when flows will reach facility capacity.

d. A discussion o f operator certification and a list of current operating personnel
and their grades of certification.

e. The date of the facility’s Operation and Maintenance Manual (including contingency plans as described in Provision A.27), the date the manual was
last r eviewed, and whether the manual is complete and valid for the current
facility.

f. A discussion of the laboratories used by the discharger to monitor compliance with effluent limits and a summary of performance relative to Section B, General Monitoring Requirements.

g. If the facility treats industrial or domestic wastewater and there is no provision for periodic sludge monitoring in the Monitoring and Reporting Program, the report shall include a summary of sludge quantities, analyses of its chemical and moisture content, and its ultimate destination.

h. If appropriate, the report shall also evaluate the effectiveness of the local pretreatment program using the State Water Resources Control Board's "Guidelines for Determining the Effectiveness of Local Pretr eatment
Program ," EPA’s “Introduction to the National Pretreatment Program”
(http://www.epa.gov/npdes/pubs/pretreatment_program_intro_2011.pdf ), or
other applicable guidelines or standards .

i. A summary of efforts to reduce salts and nutrients in the waste discharge, including but not limited to detailed descriptions of measures implemented by the discharger and/or participation in a basin -wide salts and nutrients
management program.
WDR Standard Provisions -9- December 5, 2013
j. A summary of collection system management plans, or reference report
submitted under separate cover as required by this or separate sanitary sewer requirements.

k. If the facility has mercury seals, a summary of a mercury handling plan and implement ation of that plan.

17. The discharger must notify the Central Coast Water Board whenever there is a substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants being introduced into the wastewater system. Notice shall include information on the quality and q uantity of
waste being introduced to the system and the anticipated impact of the waste upon the quantity and quality of the aggregate discharge.

18. The discharger must notify the Central Coast Water Board as soon as it knows or has reason to believe that it or an indirect discharger has begun, or expects to
begin, use or manufacture of a "toxic waste" or "hazardous substance" not reported in the Report of Waste Discharge that may, directly or indirectly, discharge into the treatment and disposal system.

D. Bypasses or Upsets

1. Bypass

a. If the discharger knows in advance of the need for a "bypass," it shall submit notice to the Executive Officer at least 10 days before the “bypass."

b. The Central Coast Board will consider enforcement action against the
discharger for “bypass;" though staff will consider the following extenuating conditions when recommending enforcement:

i. The "bypass" was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or "severe property damage."

ii. There was no feasible alternative to the “bypass," such as use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. (This condition is not satisfied if adequate back -up equipment could have
been installed to prevent a “bypass " that occurred during normal
periods of equipment down- time or preventive maintenance).

iii. The discharger submitted notice to the Executive Officer as specified in paragraphs C.3. and D.1.a., above.

2. Upset

A discharger seeking to establish the occurrence o f an "upset" has the burden of
proof. A discharger who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of "upset" shall
WDR Standard Provisions -10- December 5, 2013
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relative evidence that:

a. An "upset" occurred and the discharger can identify the specific cause(s) of the "upset."

b. The facility was at the time of the "upset" being properly operated, the discharger submitted notice of the "upset" within 24 hours, and the discharger took all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse impact on the environment.

E. Enforcement

1. The discharger must comply with all conditions of this order. Noncompliance constitutes a violation of state law and is grounds for enforcement action or modification of the existing order.

2. Any person failing or refusing to furnish technical or monitoring program reports as
required by subdivision (b) of section 13267 of the California Water Code, or falsifying any information provided therein, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

3. The discharger or any person who violates this order and who discharges waste, or causes or permits waste to be deposited where it is discharged, into waters of the state may be liable for civil and/or criminal remedies, as appropriate, pursuant to sections 13350, 13385, and 13387 of the California Water Code.

4. Upon reduction, loss, or failure of any part of the wastewater facility, the discharger shall, to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this order, control production or all discharges, or both, until the facil ity is restored or an acceptable
interim method of treatment or disposal is provided.

5. It shall not be a defense for a discharger in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compl iance with the conditions of this order.

F. Definitions

1. "Average" or "Mean" is the arithmetic mean of daily concentrations over the specified period in which "N" is the number of days samples were analyzed during the period and "X" is either the constit uent concentration (mg/L) or flow for each
sampled day. When “N” is less than four and compliance with long -term limits is not
demonstrated, additional samples may be required to determine the “Average” or “Mean.”

2. "Bypass" means the diversion of waste str eams around any portion of a treatment
facility to the disposal area or from the treatment facility to an unauthorized location.

WDR Standard Provisions -11- December 5, 2013
3. A "composite sample" is a combination of no fewer than eight individual samples
obtained at equal time intervals (usually hour ly) over the specified sampling
(composite) period. The volume of each individual sample is proportional to the flow rate at time of sampling. The period shall be specified in the Monitoring and Reporting Program ordered by the Executive Officer.

4. "Daily Discharge" means the discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or during any 24- hour period reasonably representative of the calendar day for
purposes of sampling.

5. “Daily Maximum" limit means the maximum acceptable concentration or mass emis sion rate of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or during any 24- hour
period reasonably representative of the calendar day for purposes of sampling. It is normally compared with results of "composite samples."

6. "Duly Authorized Representative" is one where:

a. The authorization is made in writing by a person described i n the signatory
paragraph (C.14. a, b, or c) of this document.

b. The authorization specifies either an individual or the occupant of a position having responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated facility, such as
the plant manager.

c. The written authorization was submitted to the Central Coast Water Board.

7. A "grab sample" is defined as any individual sample collected in less than 15 minutes. "Grab samples" shall be coll ected during peak loading conditions, which
may or may not be during hydraulic peaks.

8. "Hazardous substance" means any substance designated as hazardous or extremely hazardous in sections 66680 or 66685 of the California Code of Regulations (Title 22, Div ision 4, Chapter 30, Article 9).

9. "Incompatible wastes" are wastes that meet one or more of the following conditions:

a. Wastes that create a fire or explosion hazard in the treatment works.

b. Wastes that will cause corrosive structural damage to treatment works, including all wastes with a pH lower than 5.0 unless the works is specifically designed to accommodate such wastes.

c. Solid or viscous wastes in amounts that cause obstruction to flow in sewers, or that cause other interference with proper operation of treatment works.

d. Any waste, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.), released in such volume or strength as to cause inhibition or disruption in the treatment
WDR Standard Provisions -12- December 5, 2013
works and subsequent treatment process upset and loss of treatment
efficiency.

e. Heat in amounts that inhibit or disrupt biological activity in the treatment
works or that raise influent temperatures above 40°C (104°F) unless the treatment works is designed to accommodate such heat.

10. "Indirect Discharger" means a nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
publicly owned treatment and disposal system.
 11. "Log Mean" is the geometric mean. Used for determining compliance of fecal or
total coliform populations, it is calculated with the following equation:


Log Mean = (C 1*C2*...*C N)1/N

in which "N" is the number of days samples were analyzed during the period and any "C" is the concentration of bacteria (MPN/100 mL) found on each day of sampling. To be valid, "N" must be five or more.

12. "Median" is the value below which half the samples (ranked progressively by increasing value) fall. It may be considered the middle value, or the average of two middle values. To be valid, three or more values are required.

13. "Overflow" means the intentional or unintentional diversion of flow from the collection and transport systems, including pumping facilities, and from disposal areas.

14. "Pollutant -free wastewater" means infiltration and inflow, storm waters, and cooling
waters and condensates that are essentially free of pollutants.

15. "Severe property damage" means substantial physical damage to property, damage to treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss to natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a “bypass.” It does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.

16. "Sludge" means the solids, residues, and precipitates separated from, or created in, wastewater by the unit processes of a treatment system.

17. "To significantly cont ribute" to a waste discharge requirement violation means an
"indirect discharger" does any of the following:

a. Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by contract with the discharger or by state or local law.

b. Discharges wastewater that substantially differs in nature or constituents from its average discharge.

WDR Standard Provisions -13- December 5, 2013
c. Discharges pollutants, either alone or in conjunction with discharges from
other sources, resulting in a waste discharge requirement violation or preventing sludge use or dis posal.

d. Discharges pollutants, either alone or in conjunction with pollutants from other
sources, that increase the magnitude or duration of waste discharge
requirement violations.

18. "Toxic waste" means any toxic and persistent waste that falls within the f ollowing
categories:

a. PCBs
b. Pesticides
c. Toxic Metals
d. Cyanides
e. Halogenated Organics
f. Non-halogenated volatile organics

19. "Upset" means an exceptional incident causing noncompliance with technology -
based effluent limitations because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger. It does not include noncompliance caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless or improper operation.