wastewater treatment and disposal facilities.
 Groundwater Protection 6. The discharge shall not cause a significant increase of mineral constituent concentrations in underlying groundwater, as determined by comparison of samples
collected from wells located upgradient and downgradient of disposal areas.
 BP

7. The discharge shall not cause radionuclides to be present in concentrations that are deleterious to human, plant, animal, or aquatic life; or result in the accumulation of radionuclides in the food web to an extent that presents a hazard to human, plant, animal, or aquatic life.
 BP
 8. The discharge shall not cause groundwater to contain concentrations of radionuclides in excess of the limits specified in California Code of Reg ulations, Title
22, Chapter 15, Article 5, Section 64443, Table 4.
 BP
 9. The discharge shall not cause groundwater to contain concentrations of chemical constituents in excess of the limits specified in California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Chapter 15, A rticle 4, Section 64431, Table 64431- A.
 BP

10. The discharge shall not cause groundwater to contain concentrations of chemical constituents in amounts that adversely affect the agricultural supply beneficial use.
 BP
 11. No controllable water quality factor shall significantly degrade the quality of any
groundwater resource or adversely affect long -term soil productivity. The salinity
control aspects of groundwater management will account for effects from all sources.
 BP
 System Operation
12. Treatment and disposal areas shall be fenced and posted (English and Spanish) to
advise the public that the facility contains domestic wastewater.

WDR No. R3 -2014 -0046 9 November 13, 2014

13. Wastewater shall be aerated as needed to ensure adequate treatment. Inadequate
treatment, as evidenced by excessive surface scum a nd anaerobic gas production
or creation of odor or nuisance conditions, shall not occur.
 14. Treatment and disposal ponds shall have a freeboard greater than two feet at all times.
 Wastewater Disposal 15. Effluent shall not be discharged within 100 feet of any existing water supply well.
 16. Disposal ponds shall be alternated to permit emptying for maintenance purposes.
 17. Disposal ponds shall be disked at least annually.
 Solid Waste
18. All solids generated from the screening and treatment process must be reclaimed or disposed of in a manner acceptable to the Executive Officer.
 Storm Water
19. All storm water contacting domestic wastewater shall be contained onsite.
 Inflow/Infiltration
20. Best management practices shall be implemented to minimize the inflow and
infiltratio n of storm water and/or unauthorized wastewater into the facility.
 C. PROVISIONS
 1. Order No. R3- 2004- 0106, “Waste Discharge Requirements for the California Army
National Guard, Camp Roberts Military Reservation, San Luis Obispo And Monterey Counties,” adopted by the Regional Board on September 10, 2004, is hereby
rescinded, except for enforcement purposes.
 2. The Discharger shall comply with “Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) No.
R3-2014- 0046 , as specified by the Executive Officer.
 3. The Discharger shall comply with all applicable items of the attached “Standard Provisions and Reporting Requirements for Wast e Discharge Requirements,” dated
December 5, 2013.
 4. All discharges from the facility shall comply with lawful requirements of the municipalities, counties, irrigation districts, drainage districts, and other local agencies regarding discharges of water to other watercourses under their jurisdiction.

WDR No. R3 -2014 -0046 10 November 13, 2014

5. The Discharger shall give advance notice to the Regional Board of any planned
changes in the permit ted facility or waste management activities that may result in
noncompliance with this Order.
 6. This Order ma y be reopened to address any changes in State or Federal plans,
policies, or regulations that would affect the quality requirements for the discharges.
 7. In the event of any change in control or ownership of land or facilities presently owned or utilized by the Discharger, the Discharger shall notify the succeeding owner(s) or operator(s) of the existence of this Order by letter, a copy of which shall be forwarded to the Regional Board.
 8. Pursuant to Title 23, Chapter 3, Subchapter 9, of the California Admi nistrative Code,
the Discharger must submit a written report to the Executive Officer, not later than May 13, 2024 addressing:

a. Whether there will be changes in the continuity, character, location, or volume of the discharge;
 b. Whether, in their opinion, there is any portion of the Order that is incorrect, obsolete, or otherwise in need of revision; and

c. A summary of all violations of Waste Discharge Requirements, Order No. R3-
2004- 0106, which occurred since adoption of the Order along with a description
of the cause(s) and corrective action taken.

 I, Kenneth A. Harris Jr., Executive Officer , do hereby certify the foregoing is a full, true,
and correct copy of an order adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Central Coast Region on November 13, 2014.

______________________________________
Kenneth A. Harris Jr., Executive Officer

TJK
126-01
CIWQS Place 212962
S:\WDR\ WDR Facilities \San Luis Obispo Co\ Camp Roberts \2004 Revision\ WDR TK_rev1.doc