wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
3. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No.2, the dissolved
oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater in ponds shall not be less that
1.0 mg/1.
4. The wastewater treatment ponds shall not have a pH ofless than 6.0 or greater than 8.5.
5. The Discharger shall operate all systems and equipment to maximize treatment of
wastewater and optimize the quality of the discharge.
6. The ponds shall be managed to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. In particular,
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are not
created around the perimeter of the waste surface. ·
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-201
YOSEMITE VISTA ESTATES
TUOLUMNE COUNTY -6-
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, and/or
herbicides. If cattails are to be permitted to remain in Pond #1 for the purpose of
effluent treatment and disposal, a letter of approval from the local mosquito
abatement district must be submitted to the Executive Officer.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface.
7. The Discharger's wastewater treatment system shall be designed, constructed, operated,
and maintained to prevent inundation or washout due to floods with a 100-year return
frequency.
8. The free board in all ponds shall never be less than two feet as measured vertically from
the water surface to the lowest point of overflow.
9. The wastewater ponds shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable
wastewater flow, design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration.
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return
period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance _with the historical rainfall
patterns.
10. On or about 1 October each year, available pond storage capacity shall at least equal the
volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications No. 8 and No. 9.
11. The Discharger shall minimize impacts to the groundwater due to total dissolved salts to
the maximum practical extent.
C.