wastewater treatment and disposal areas.
4. Wastewater discharged to leachlines shall remain underground at all times.
5. The distance between any unlined pond or leaching trench bottoms and anticipated
highest groundwater shall be greater than 5.0 feet, or such distance as necessary to
provide compliance with Groundwater Limitations.
6. Public contact with the wastewater shall be precluded through such means as fences
and signs, or acceptable alternatives.
7. Precipitation and other run-on shall be precluded from entering spray field and
leachfield areas, the treatment and settling ponds, or any WWTF property where the
run-on could consume and adversely impact the treatment and disposal capacity of
theWWTF.
''
( WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ORDER NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
8. Leachlines shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to meet, at minimum, the
following setbacks:
Setback Distance (feet)
50
100
100
150 To
,Ephemeral Stream 1
Property Lines
Flowing Stream2
Domestic Wells, Public Wells
As measured from the edge of the drainage course or stream.
2 As measured from the line which defines the limit of a 10-year flood.
9. As a means of discerning compliance with Discharge Specification No. B.3, the
dissolved oxygen content in the upper zone (1 foot) of wastewater stored in any
storage pond shall not be less than 1.0 mg/1.
10. Leachlines·shall be rested periodically to restore and maintain optimum effluent
infiltration rates.
11. Ponds shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. In particular: 6
a. An erosion control program should assure that small coves and irregularities are
not created around the perimeter of the water surface.
b. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
c. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water surface:
12. The WWTF shall be capable of treating and disposing of allowable wastewater flow,
design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration. Design seasonal
precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation using a return period of 100
years, distributed monthly in accordance with historical rainfall patterns. Freeboard
shall never be less than two feet (measured vertically) or a lesser freeboard if certified
in writing by a registered civil engineer as adequate to prevent overtopping,
overflows, or levee failures.
13. Wastewater discharged to the spray field shall remain within the designated disposal
areas or returned to the storage pond at all times.
( __ WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ORDER NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY 7
14. If effluent has been applied to the spray fields since the last precipitation event, the
first 24 hours of precipitation runoff from the subsequent event shall be collected and
returned to the ponds, and runoff may thereafter be released off-site.
15. Wastewater shall not be sprayed while precipitation is occurring, when it is forecast to
occur within 24 hours, or when disposal areas are saturated.
16. No physical connection shall exist between spray field water piping and any domestic
water supply or well.
17. WWTF treatment and disposal areas shall be maintained free of brush in densities that
inhibits wastewater treatment and disposal, access to and monitoring of the site, or
inspection of the WWTF components.
C. Solids Disposal Specifications:
1. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with
Consolidated Regulations for Treatment, Storage, Processing, or Disposal of Solid
Waste, as set forth in Title 27, CCR, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Section 20005, et seq.
2. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported to the
Executive Officer at least 60 days in advance of the change.
3. Use and disposal of sewage sludge shall comply with existing federal, state, and local
laws, regulations, and ordinances, including permitting requirements and technical
standards in 40 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 503 ( 40 CFR 503).
D. Groundwater Limitations:
The discharge; in combination with other sources, shall not cause underlying groundwater to
contain waste constituents in concentrations statistically greater than background water quality.
For purposes of comparison, background water quality shall be determined when groundwater
monitoring provides sufficient data. Quality determined in this manner establishes "water quality
protection standards."
E. Provisions:
1. The Discharger shall comply with Monitoring and Reporting Program No. 99-004,
which is part of this Order, and any revisions thereto as ordered by the Executive
Officer.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ORDER NO. 99-004
. YOSEtvflTE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
2. The Discharger shall comply with the "Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements for Waste Discharge Requirements," dated 1 March 1991, which are
attached hereto and by reference a part of this Order. This attachment and its
individual paragraphs are commonly referenced as "Standard Provision(s)." 8
3. .The Discharger shall not allow pollutant-free wastewater to be discharged int.o the
WWTF's collection, treatment, and disposal systems in amounts that significantly
diminish the systems' capability to comply with this Order. Pollutant-free wastewater
means storm water (i.e., inflow), ground water (i.e., infiltration), cooling waters, and .
condensates that are essentially free of pollutants.
4. By 1 June 1999 the Discharger shall submit a copy of the operation and maintenance
. manual (O&M manual) for the WWTF, including its proposed modifications. The
O&M manual shall be prepared under the supervision of a California registered civil
engineer and include descriptions of complete operational procedures for the WWTF
that assure compliance with this Order. The O&M manual must address the items in
Standard Provision B .2.
5. The Discharger shall submit by 1 June 1999 a technical report that certifies that a
flow meter has been properly installed and calibrated to measure the wastewater flows
to the WWTF. The flow meter shall be capable of providing recorded instantaneous
and total daily flow information.
6. By 1 June 1999 the Discharger shall either submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) to
comply with Water Quality Order No. 92-08-DWQ, National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) General Permit No. CAS000002 (General Permit),
Waste Discharge Requirements for Dischargers of Stonn Water Runoff Associated
with Construction Activities, submit evidence that it has already submitted an NOI, or
provide written certification that storm water associated with construction activities at
its WWTF will not under any circumstances leave the facility site.
7. By 1 June 1999 the Discharger shall submit a technical report in the form of a work
plan to install and develop a comprehensive ground water monitoring network to
monitor at the earliest practicable date at the POCs the effects of its disposal
operations on the uppermost groundwater aquifer. The proposed program shall
include, but not be limited to: (1) a sufficient number of up gradient and downgradient
ground water monitoring wells for. the WWTF disposal areas, (2) a map showing the
proposed location of the wells, and (3) the proposed well specifications: 0
. WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
ORDER NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENTFACil.JTY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
The Discharger shall install the network by 20 October 2000 of the Executive
Officer's approval of the work plan and monitor all monitoring wells as described in
the attached Monitoring and Reporting Program.
8. The Discharger shall use the best practicable control technique currently available to
comply with this Order.
9. Reports required by this Order are requested pursuant to CWC Section 13267. All
technical reports shall be prepared under the direction of and properly signed and
stamped by a California registered civil engineer with experience in wastewater
treatment and disposal. All reports are subject to the approval of the Executive
Officer.
10. The Discharger must comply with all conditions of this Order, including timely
submittal of technical and monitoring reports as directed by the Executive Officer. 9
· Violations may result in enforcement action, including Regional Board or court orders
requiring corrective action or imposing civil monetary liability, or in revision or
rescission of this Order.
1 l. The Discharger shall submit to the Board on or before each report due date the
specified document or, if an action is specified, a written report detailing evidence of
compliance with the date and task. If noncompliance is being reported, the reasons
for such noncompliance shall be stated, plus an estimate of the date when the
Discharger will be in compliance. The Discharger shall notify the Board by letter .
when it returns to compliance with the time schedule.
12. A copy of this Order shall be kept at the subdivision's Mariposa County maintenance
building for reference by operating personnel and Board inspectors. Personnel
responsible for the operation and maintenance of WWTF shall be familiar with its
contents.
13. The Board will review this Order periodically and will revise requirements when
necessary.
,r ' f
( CALIFORNIA REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
CENTRAL VALLEY REGION
MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM NO. 99-004
FOR
MARIPOSA COUNTY
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
.Specific sample station locations shall be established with con~urrence of the Board's staff. A
description of the stations shall be submitted to the Board and attached to this Program.
WWTF MONITORING
Except for flow, which may be measured at the beginning of the WWTF, effluent samples shall be
collected just prior to discharge to the spray field or leachlines. Effluent samples shall be representative
of the volume and nature of the discharge. Time of collection of grab samples shall be recorded ..
Effluent monitoring shall include at least the following:
Sampling
Constituents Units T:y12e of Sam12le Freguenc:y
Flow mgd Metered Continuous 1 Q, ,c.. Co,' ooo JpJ
BOD/ mg/1 Grab Monthi;( L-f0/'60
Settleable Solids mt/1 Grab Mon~hlo/ o.l ti .,_:\'1 M,.._y:_
Total Suspended Solids mg/1 Grab Monthly l-/O/r;;O
Conductivity @ 25°C µmhos/cm Grab Monthly
To be monitored and recorded continuously with the cumulative daily flow reported daily and
submitted with the 24-hour chart recording in the monthly monitoring reports.
2 Five day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand.
The Discharger shall inspect all WWTF treatment, disposal, and return units weekly to ensure proper
operation and maintenance. In conducting the WWTF inspections, a bound log shall be kept of the
condition of the treatment systems, distribution boxes, and disposal areas, including notations regarding .
the condition of the treatment and distribution systems; solids in the distribution boxes; the presence or
absence of surfacing effluent, standing water, or soil moisture in or adjacent to the disposal areas; and
the presence or absence of animal burrows in or adjacent to the leachfields or spray field return berms
that could cause effluent to surface or potentiaUy convey surfaced effluent off-site. A summary of the
entri~s made-in the log during each month shall be submitted along with the monitoring report the
following month.
. /·-=~:::,,.\
., I '
MONITORING AND REP<:.. }.'ING PROGRAM NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
Specific sample station locations shall be established with concurrence of the Board's staff. A
description of the stations shall be submitted to the Board and attached to this· Program.
GROUNDWATER MONITORING -2-
Pursuant to Provision No. E.7 and by 1 June 1999, the Discharger shall submit a work plan for a
groundwater monitoring network with a schedule for implementati9n to monitor shallow groundwater
upgradient and downgradient of the WWTF. The monitoring network shall consist of one or more
background monitoring wells and sufficient downgradient wells to determine flow direction and
gradient, and to monitor disposal areas. All well locations and construction features are subject to the
pr:ior approval of the Executive Officer and must be sufficient to monitor potential impacts of the .
disposal operation on the uppermost groundwater aquifer. By 20 October 2000, the Discharger shall
implement the Executive Officer approved ground water monitoring well network.
Samples shall be taken monthly from approved background monitoring well(s) for one year and analyzed
for the parameters specified below. Data from these analyses shall be reported to the Board by within
30 days after said year ends, for use in determining water quality protection standards.
f,,--If subsequent sampling of the background monitoring well(s) indicates significant water quality changes
due to either seasonal fluctuations or other reasons unrelated to waste disposal activities, the Discharger
may request modification of the water quality protection standards.
The downgradient wells shall constitute "points of compliance" (POCs). In conjunction with
background monitoring, monitoring of POCs will enable one to determine compliance with water quality
protection standards. This information shall be displayed on a water flow net diagram for the site.
Water samples shall be collected from wells in the approved monitoring network and analyzed as
follows:
Constituents Units T:y12e of Sam12le
[ Depth feet1 Measurement Monthly
Minerals3 mg/1 Grab Quarterly
Conductivity @ 25°C µmhos/cm Grab Quarterly
pH pH units Grab Quarterly
Kjeldahl-Nitrogen mg/1 Grab Quarterly
Total Coliform MPN/100 ml Grab Quarterly 1 ,J ._.Jr,,J\"/ ?
~S'-'--' v-.'"t~)
1 The Discharger shall report groundwater levels as elevations with respect to a each other to allow
determination of the for the local groundwater gradient.
() ,,..-=,,..,,
-, MONITORING AND REP( ,,tING PROGRAM NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT ~
) -3-
W ASTEWATER·TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
2 Samples shall be collected one week before and weekly after leachfield treatments with hydrogen
peroxide. Weekly sampling may be reduced to quarterly after two months if an appropriate
. analysis demonstrates that impacts, if any, should have been observed but were not.
3 Mineral analyses and total dissolved solids shall include calcium, carbonate, chloride, fluoride,
iron, magnesium, nitrate, potassium, sodium, sulfate, total phosphorous and all other major
cations and anions and include a verification that the analysis is complete (i.e., cation/anion
balance).
Annually (after establishment of water quality protection standards), the Discharger shall determine
whether there is a statistically significant increase over water quality protection standards for each
parameter and constituent analyzed and submit its results to the Board.
REPORTING
Monthly monitoring reports, including data for all constituents monitored at least monthly, shall be
submitted to the Board by the 20th day of the following month.
In reporting the monitoring data, the Discharger shall arrange the data and information in tabular form so
that the date, the constituents, and the concentrations are readily discernible. The data and information
shall be summarized in a manner that clearly illustrates whether the Discharger complies with waste
discharge requirements.
If the Discharger monitors any pollutant at the locations designated herein more frequently than is
required by this Order, the results of such monitoring shall be included in the discharge monitoring
report.
By 20 January of each year, the Discharger shall submit a written report to the Executive Officer
containing the following:
a The names, titles, certificate grade, and general responsibilities of persons operating and
maintaining the wastewater treatment system.
b. The names and telephone numbers of persons to contact regarding the WWTF for emergency and
routine situations.
c. A certified statement of when the flow meter and other monitoring instruments and devices were
last calibrated, including identification of who did the calibration (Standard Provision C.4).
d. A statement whether the current operation and maintenance manual, and contingency plan, reflect
the WWTFs as currently constructed and operated, and the dates when these documents were last
reviewed for adequacy.
<l
,'
' ·,
( MONITORING AND REPOKfING PROGRAM NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MA.filPOSA COUNTY .~
,l
e. Beginning in 2001, the above described statistical evaluation of-groundwater data. -4-
All reports submitted in response to this Order shall comply with the signatory requirements in Standard
Provision B.3.
The Discharger shall implement the above monitoring program on the first day of the month following
adoption of this Order.
/ (Date) ,,.
WDH:fmc:4/30/99
(
' N Scale 1" = 2000'
~ ATTACHMENT A
VICINITY MAP
MARIPOSA COUNTY
YOSEMITE WEST SPECIAL DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
Sections 23 and 24, TIS, R21E, MDB&M
Wawona, Calif., 7.5 Min. U.S.G.S Quad Maps
,,........_
( ', .-----.,
)
K!'RAYl'l!ll,P (i'I\.IMl!l!I! Pl' ~l'HINl<,1--!!H~ NPT ll)(IICT)
SPRAYFIELP RF.TURN SYSTEM
INFLUENT
METER-GRINDER-GRIT UNIT
ATTACHMENT B
FLOW SCHEMATIC
YOSEMITE WEST SPECIAL DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY IIERATED POND ·;·-"\
PUMP
STORAGE/SE"ffLING POND
-------------------- ,J, ------------
LEACIIFIELD RETURN SYSTEM
Pllfv1P
(
\
( INFORMATION SHEET
YOSEMITE WEST MAJNTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
The Yosemite West Subdivision wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal facilities
(WWTF) provides sewerage service to the subdivision, which currently consists of 110
developed out of 294 potential lots. The WWTF is on 27 acres owned or controlled by the
Mariposa County (Discharger).
The subdivision was created in the 1960s and the 110 lots include single family homes, transient
rentals, bed and breakfast establishments, and two condominiums with a total of 48 units. The
Discharger has also issued building permits for six single family residences, a bed and breakfast,
and a guest house for a total of 118 developed lots.
Discharges from the WWTF are regulated by Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 85-111,
which prescribes requirements for the dry weather discharge of 0.10 mgd of wastewater from
294 lots to the WWTF and its leachfields.
The WWTF is located in steep terrain on a northern slope at an elevation of approximately
5,000 feet above mean sea level. It is located below the subdivision about one mile down a
relatively steep dirt road. According to WWTF personnel, there is typically five feet of snow on
the ground at the WWTF during the winter months. In the spring the WWTF road becomes
muddy and impassable with conventional vehicles. As a result the WWTFhas seldom been
inspected by the Discharger during the winter and spring months.
· The WWTF is 30 years old and includes a brittle asbestos-cement pipe collection system; a
previously lined 225,000 gallon aerated pond, an abandoned cobble/gravel/sand filter, and
approximately 2000 linear feet of conventional leachlines contained in three terraces. Based on
Order No. 85~111, its design capacity, including the filter, is 100,000 gallons per day. The filter
never worked properly and was abandoned shortly after it went on-line. The synthetic aeration
pond liner degraded over the years and no longer exists.
The Discharger reports that snow melt during the spring results in high flows to the WWTF due
to infiltration and inflow (I/I). Further, the melting snow saturates the leachlines reducing their
disposal capacity during this period of greater need. Staff inspections in the late spring have
consistently revealed leachline failures resulting in effluent surfacing and flowing down slope
towards Indian Creek. On 18 May 1998, the Discharger reported large leachfield failures and
similar unacceptable conditions. The Discharger also reported that infiltration and inflow
associated :with snow melt was resulting in peak daily wastewater flows of up to 85,000 gpd,
about twice that expected for the current level of construction. The information demonstrates
that the collection system experiences high infiltration and inflow and that the WWTF is
incapable of treating and disposing of 100,000 gpd from the projected buildout population of the
l development.
'---
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
In May of 1998, the Discharger acted immediately to address the WWTF failures and eliminate
the runoff of surfacing effluent. With staffs consent, the Discharger installed a portable spray
field in the forest above the WWTF and a temporary return system to divert wastewater away
from the leach field, implemented water conservation measures, and implemented a connection
ban on all current and proposed construction. 2
The Discharger also began implementing measures to prepare for disposal during the upcoming·
winter. At staff's request, on 24 August 1998, the Discharger submitted an engineering report
describing measures that it was implementing. The report describes four phases of corrective
actions. Phases one and two describe immediate interim measures to correct WWTF deficiencies
and provide treatment and disposal capacity for the existing development. Phase three describes
additional interim measures necessary to ensure compliance with this Order. Phase four
describes measures necessary to address WWTF expansion to handle flows for a suitable
. planning period for the subdivision.
Phase one was partially completed during the spring, summer and fall of 1998 and includes the
1· ( placement of the temporary spray field described above, the construction of a clay lined pond to
··--provide settling after the aeration pond, the rehabilitation of existing leachlines using Infiltrator® .
chambers, the installation of 2000 additional feet of leachlines using Infiltrator® chambers in
unused terraces, and the purchase of an all-terrain vehicle to provide winter and spring access to
the WWTF. The Discharger also implemented a program to identify and correct collection
system (I/I) problems, and corrected some of the more significant sources. The Discharger has
not submitted a report quantifying the success of its program. Therefore, this Order requires an
I/I report. The Discharger did not complete the leachfield return system prior to the winter of
1998/ 1999 and moved it to phase three in the revised engineering report.
Phase two included the installation of a permanent forest spray irrigation system and the
construction of a meter-grinder-grit chamber unit for the WWTF. Instead of installing permanent
spray field fixtures, the Discharger will purchase mobile irrigation equipment. The Discharger
purchased but did install the meter-gdnder-grit chamber unit.
In phase three, the Discharger will rehabilitate the aeration pond, and land apply the sludge, ·
install a groundwater monitoring network, and install a permanent leachfield return system below
the new leachlines.
The engineering report estimates that the completed 4,000 feet of leachline will be suitable for a
winter/early spring flows of 60,000 gpd based on a loading rate of approximately 5
gallons/ft2/day. The loading rate is not supported with soil profile information or percolation test
data, but instead on the conclusion that the existing leachlines "successfully" accepted a loading
rate of 7 gallons/ft2/day. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA 625/1-80-012)
INFORMATION SHEET
ORDER NO. 99-004
YOSEMITE WEST MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MARIPOSA COUNTY
recommends a design appUcation rate for coarse to medium grained sands of 1.2 gallons/ft2/day.
More recent guidance on leachfield design promotes much lower loading rates to ensure long
term disposal capacity, as overloaded leachlines typically clog with solids over time. The
existing leachlines are received wastewater without the benefit of the solids removal that would
have, been provided by filtration and failed after only six years. While the combination of new
and existing leachfields may be able to handle flows of 60,000 gpd during the immediate future,
it is unlikely that they will perform successfully over the long term.
The Discharger diligently implemented interim modifications to the existing WWTF to contain
wastewater discharges during the winter of 1998/1999. However, Order No. 85-111 indicates
that the monthly average dry weather flow for the subdivision will be 100,000 gpd or about 3
340 gallons per day per lot. Changes in the land use (i.e., bed and breakfasts versus single
family dwellings) and I/I during the spring will likely generate flows greater than 100,000 gpd
prior to buildout. The report indicates that the capacity of the modified WWTF is less than the
intended 100,000 gpd and does not provide predicted WWTF flows or specific leachfield
requirements for buildout of the subdivision or a suitable planning period. This Order limits the
flow to the WWTF to 60,000 gpd, which the Discharger certified as reasonable. However,
additional investigation is necessary to determine the long term acceptance rate of the interim
· WWTF improvements, the wastewater flows for a suitable planning period, and further
modifications to the WWTF that will be required to provide wastewater treatment and disposal
for the subject planning period. Board enforcement, proposed separately, would require the
Discharger to complete this additional investigation. This Order will need to be updated upon
receipt of the information required by the proposed enforcement.
Soils in the WWTF area consist of residual soils derived from local granitic bedrock. Soils in the
vicinity of the settling pond are silty sands with very minor clay content. The soil information
provided by the Discharger is minimal. Additional soil information is necessary to assess the
adequacy of the soil profile to inhibit pathogen migration. Groundwater monitoring is necessary
to monitor whether past discharges have degraded local groundwater with pathogens and salts
and to monitor the Discharger's treatment of the existing leachlines with hydrogen peroxide.
The action to adopt waste discharge requirements for this WWTF is exempt from the provisions
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in accordance with Title 14, California
Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 15301 (existing facility).
WDH:fmc:4/30/99