[Page 6]
10. Civic Center Facility
A. The Civic Center Facility is owned and operated by the City.
B. The Civic Center Facility is a tertiary-treated wastewater treatment plant, treating
domestic and commercial wastewater generated within the Malibu Civic Center
Area.
C. The wastewater treatment processes of the Civic Center Facility include coarse and
fine mechanical screening and grit removal for preliminary treatment of the influent
wastewater. The effluent after the preliminary treatment flows to an equalization
basin. The effluent of an equalization basin will flow to a Membrane Bioreactor
(MBR) consisting of biological reactors and membrane-based solids removal. The
MBR will provide carbonaceous oxidation, nitrificationidenitrification and solids
removal to meet the limits of the WDRsWRRs. Disinfection of the treated effluent will
be achieved by Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Disinfection will be followed by the
addition of chlorine to maintain a chlorine residual in the distribution system to
minimize microorganisms re-growth and bio-fouling in the pipelines and injection
welts. Treated, disinfected effluent will be recycled within the community via a
[Page 7]
City of Mafibu File No. 1 1-087
Civic Center Wastewat%rT reatment Facility - Phases I & II Projects
Order No. R4-2015-005

[Page 9]
11. Wastewater Collection and Recycled Water Distribution Systems
-
A. Pipeline Transmission Figure 4 shows the extent and locations of the wastewater
collection and recycled water distribution systems. Pipelines are designed in
accordance with acceptable seismic safety standards so as to protect against the
possibility of rupture.
B. Wastewater and Recycled Water Pump Systems - Wastewater pump stations are
located along pipeline alignments, below ground and on public rights-of-way and/or
easements (Figure 4). Each wastewater pump station has odor controls. Two (2)
recycled water pump stations are located at the Civic Center Facility site.
12. lnjection Welts
Treated wastewater from the Civic Center Facility is to be disposed through three (3)
injection wells W-1, W-2, and W-3 located at the southern boundary of the Malibu Colony
Plaza and the northern side of Malibu Road (Figure 4). These wells are approximately 400
feet from each other and are in close proximity to the recycled water distribution system
pipeline. Each injection well is 14 inches in diameter and is connected via subsurface and
surface piping with the recycled water distribution line. Table 3 shows specifications of
three (3) injection wells.
I I
-
Table 3 Specifications of Injection Wells
1 I I
W-1, W-2, and W-3
1
-Depth below Ground Surface (Feet)
I I I
Screen Intervals below Ground Surface (Feet) 55 - 134
Aquifer Civic Center Gravels
Total Injection Rate "I (GPM~) 130 (Phase I) and 250 (Phase II)
[1]. The total daily injection rate at three injection wells is up to 130 GPM for Phase I and 250 GPM for
. . Phase II. he actual injection rate at any well location will vary, depending on the flow rate of
unused recycled water (which will be dependent on factors such as landscape irrigation demand,
wastewater generation, and water discharge at percolation ponds).
[2]. GPM: Gallons per minute.
13. Percolation Ponds
A. Three (3) percolation ponds (Figure 2) in the Winter Canyon area are to be
constructed at the site of the Civic Center Facility as a back-up method for disposal
of recycled water into the Winter Canyon groundwater basin. Water that cannot be
either reused through irrigation or disposed through injection wells will be pumped to
percolation ponds then percolate into Winter Canyon groundwater basin, typically
during periods when other facilities are unavailable because of an emergency or due
to scheduled maintenance. Disposal to the percolation ponds will be alternated from
pond to pond.
B. The upper Winter Canyon is a separate groundwater system from the Malibu Valley
Groundwater Basin underlying the majority of the Civic Center area, as determined
[Page 10]
City of Malibu File No. 1 1-087
Civic Center Wastewater Treatment Facility - Phases I & If Projects
Order No R4-2015-0057
based on hydrogeological studies. It is estimated that the Winter Canyon
groundwater basin can provide a percolation capacity of up to 100,000G PD.
C. Each percolation pond is approximately 120 feet long and 3 to 5 feet deep. Two of
rectangular percolation ponds are approximately 20 feet wide and 2,700 square foot.
The third percolation pond is approximately an irregular polygon, 20 to 40 feet wide,
and 3,860 square foot. The percolation rate of soil beneath the percolation ponds is
1.5 feet per day.
14. Groundwater Monitoring Wells
A. Groundwater monitoring wells are used to ensure that the injection does not cause
mounding of groundwater or cause the groundwater to exceed groundwater quality
objectives set forth in Table 10 in the Malibu Civic Center Area.
B. The groundwater monitoring well network consists of a total of nine (9) wells within
the southern part of the Malibu Civic Center Area. Two (2) wells (TY-MW-1 and
LAMW-5s) are in Winter Canyon, and provide water quality data downgradient and
upgradient, respectively, of the Civic Center Facility. Four (4) wells (SMBRP-9,
MCWP-MW04Sl MCWP-MW07Sl and SMBRP-12,) are screened in the shallow
unconfined alluvial aquifer. Three (3) welts (MCWP-MW04D, MCW

===PLANNED CHANGES===

