[Page 3]
24 pump stations, 18 miles of force mains, and serves 4 million residents and
several cities and agencies under contractual agreements. Approximately 85% of
HWRP’s influent flow consists of residential, commercial, and industrial
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 4
[Page 4]
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
wastewater from the City of Los Angeles; the remaining 15% comes from the
contract cities and agencies.
The HWRP is a full secondary wastewater treatment plant designed to treat a
maximum daily dry weather flow of 450 million gallons per day (mgd) and a peak
wet weather flow of 850 mgd. The treatment process at the HWRP consists of
preliminary treatment (bar screens, grit chamber), primary treatment
(coagulation, flocculation, primary sedimentation), secondary treatment
(activated sludge and clarification), and solids handling. The secondary-treated
effluent from HWRP is discharged to the Santa Monica Bay and is regulated
under National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No.
CA0109991.
1.3. Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility
The HAWPF will have the capacity to treat up to 2 mgd of primary-treated
wastewater from the HWRP to produce up to 1.5 mgd of advanced-treated
recycled water (recycled water). The process flow diagram is depicted in
Attachment B. The HAWPF treatment process will consist of fine screens,
membrane bioreactors (MBR), reverse osmosis (RO), and an ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection/advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP), and post-treatment
stabilization. The HAWPF will also include multiple pump stations, a chemical
storage facility, a 125,000-gallon product water tank, and a distribution network.
During normal operation, 100% of the recycled water will be beneficially reused
for non-potable applications at LAX and within HWRP.
Preliminary Treatment – After primary treatment at the HWRP, the primary
effluent is conveyed to the Intermediate Pump Station East and West (IPS-E &
IPS-W), a portion of which will be conveyed to the HAWPF for advanced
treatment. A set of two pumps will be installed on the operating floor of each side
of the IPS influent channel. Each pair of pumps will be capable of drawing water
from the respective primary effluent channel. Lines from IPS-E and IPS-W
channels will each be equipped with a flowmeter and conductivity and ammonia
probes. Fine screens will be provided upstream of the MBR tanks to remove
particulate material to avoid damaging the membranes. A horizontal-packaged
drum screen system with a sluiceway for screening disposal will be used to
control odors. The screenings will be periodically dislodged from the screens and
conveyed to the waste return pump station and back to the HWRP IPS afterbay.
MBR Process - The MBR system will consist of two parallel biological nutrient
removal tanks and three parallel membrane tanks. The MBR process will consist
of biological treatment utilizing anoxic, aerobic, and deoxygenation tanks,
followed by submerged membrane ultrafiltration. The MBR process will remove
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand, nitrogen through nitrification and
denitrification, and microbial solids removal through membrane separation. The
biological treatment tanks will consist of two baffled anoxic zones followed by two
aerobic zones. A deoxygenation zone will be included upstream of the anoxic
zones so that residual dissolved oxygen from the membrane tanks will be
consumed biologically before returning to the anoxic zones. Membrane
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 5
[Page 5]
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
separation to remove microbial solids will consist of three parallel covered
membrane tanks, membranes, and MBR auxiliary equipment.
RO Process - RO removes large molecular weight dissolved organic and
inorganic compounds and pathogens by forcing MBR effluent through a
semipermeable membrane under a higher pressure than the osmotic pressure of
the solution. The HAWPF RO system will consist of an RO feed tank, feed
pumps, pretreatment (chloramine injection, sulfuric acid and antiscalant addition),
cartridge filters, two RO trains, and RO membrane cleaning and flushing. There
will be two RO trains, each with a design capacity of 0.75 mgd, which will operate
continuously at a constant flux. Each RO train will have two stages designed to
achieve a recovery of up to 85% and to produce 0.75 mgd of RO permeate. RO
feed pumps will pump MBR effluent stored in the RO feed tank through cartridge
filters and into the RO membranes. The RO concentrated stream will be
conveyed back to the HWRP IPS afterbay. Permeate from the RO membranes
will flow to the UV/AOP treatment process. Chloramine will be injected after the
RO feed tank to prevent biological fouling of the RO membranes. Sulfuric acid
and antiscalant will be injected after the RO feed tank to control mineral scaling
of the RO membranes. Cartridge filters will be provided upstream of the RO
membranes to remove particulate matter. Chemical cleaning and removal of
particles, mineral scale, and biological film from the RO membrane will be
performed to avoid head loss and the resulting increase in energy use.
UV/AOP - The primary functions of UV/AOP include pathogen inactivation and
destruction and removal of trace organic compounds. The UV/AOP process will
provide additional treatment to control taste and odor compounds if needed.
Chloramine will be dosed upstream of the UV reactors (two on duty and one
standby) to generate hydroxyl radicals to eliminate the need for an additional
chemical onsite and to provide a chlorine residual to achieve additional
disinfection in the effluent pipeline. The UV system will use low-pressure high-
output lamps with an emissions wavelength peak at about 254 nanometers (nm).
For non-potable water reuse applications using RO permeate, the California
State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking
Water (DDW) requires a UV dose of 50 millijoules per square centimeter
(mJ/cm2) under conditions with

===PLANNED CHANGES===

