[Page 55]
WDID No. 1B72033OSON
irrigated with recycled water. The Discharger plans to construct wastewater treatment
and storage facilities to handle the increased population of 2,200 (phase 2), although
some facilities, such as aeration basins needed for phase 2 may be constructed, but
no aeration equipment would be installed until needed. The reclamation system will
be constructed to handle recycled water flows that result from the phase 1 population
increase and will be expanded when the population increases above the phase 1
population of 1,700.
The new Facility includes a new headworks including flow monitoring and automated
screening and grit removal; a flow equalization basin; secondary treatment facilities
consisting of an activated sludge system with biological nutrient removal (BNR); and
chlorine disinfection facilities utilizing sodium hypochlorite. The activated sludge units
consist of primary and secondary aeration basins, settling compartments and aerobic
digestion compartments. BNR will be accomplished using sequenced aeration in a
series of aeration tank compartments. The secondary treatment facility will be divided
into two trains to provide flexibility of loading efficiency and redundancy for
maintenance. The new secondary treatment process units are designed to treat an
average dry weather flow of 0.197 mgd and a sustained flow of 625 gallons per minute
(0.9 mgd) for a duration of a month. The influent pumps will be set at 0.9 mgd to
ensure that the peak treatment capacity is never exceeded and excess influent flows
will be directed to the flow equalization basin which will allow the facility to handle a
peak wet weather flow of 3.036 mgd. This is the flow that is identified as the peak wet
weather flow in Table 3 and Discharge Prohibition III.J of the Order.
The new Facility also includes sludge handling and storage facilities that will consist of
a belt filter press housed in an enclosed building and 6 bays of redundant dewatering
facilities and storage. All of the storage bays will be constructed with concrete floors.
Two of the storage bays will be outfitted with synthetic filter media to act as sludge
drying beds for redundancy in operations. All bays slope toward a trench drain that
will route flows back to the headworks for treatment. The Discharger plans to land
apply treated, dewatered sludge on-site and plans to enroll under the statewide
biosolids general permit and will develop a sludge management plan consistent with
that permit.
The new Facility will also include expanded storage ponds with a capacity of 70 million
gallons and disposal of disinfected secondary treated effluent on 84 acres of
agricultural spray fields owned by the Discharger and used by a local rancher to grow
grass crop to be harvested and used as feed for dairy cows. Initially, the Discharger
plans to develop 73 acres of agricultural spray field. An additional 11 acres of
agricultural spray field will be adde

===PLANNED CHANGES===

