[Page 83]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Controls
The Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant accepts domestic and some
industrial wastewater. The Facility is located at 501 East Santa Ana Avenue in the
Bloomington area of San Bernardino County. The original wastewater treatment plant
was constructed in 1956. Several additions to the Facility have occurred since that
time. The Facility currently consists of five independent treatment plants: Claraetor
No.1 (out of service), Claraetor No.2, conventional plants 3 & 4, and the newest plant is
No.5 (Four-stage Bardenpho process). Each of the four plants provides primary
treatment, activated sludge treatment, and secondary clarification. Combined flows
from the plants then receive tertiary treatment through filtration and disinfection. The
Facility has an 8 mgd UV disinfection system which never was put into operation. The
Facility currently uses chlorine contact chambers for disinfection using an aqueous
sodium hypochlorite and sodium bisulfate for dichlorination. Biosolids are
anaerobically digested and dewatered.
The Facility provides wastewater treatment service of flows from the City of Rialto, a
portion of the City of Fontana and an area within the sphere of influence south of 1-10 &
east of Sierra Boulevard. The total population served is about 150,000.
The treatment plant processes are summarized as follows:
Table 2. Rialto MWTP
Individual Processes at
Shared Processes
Each Plant
Preliminary Primary Secondary Tertiary
Solids Handling
Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment
Flow Equalization, Gravity Thickeners,
Bar Screens,
Filtration, Anaerobic Digestion
Aerated Grit
Primary Basins Activated Sludge Chlorination, Belt Press,
Chamber,
Secondary Clarifiers Dechlorination, Digester Gas
Flow
UV Disinfection (not Utilization Facility
Equalization
used) Sludge Drying Beds
Attachment F-Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 84]
City Of Rialto Order No. RS-2014-0010
Rialto Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES No. CA01 05295
The combined total treatment design capacity of Plants 1 through 5 is 11.7 mgd.
Currently, approximately 6.72 mgd is being treated at the Facility.
Solids wasted from each plant's secondary treatment processes are pumped to a
gravity belt thickener to reduce the water content prior to being pumped to an
anaerobic digester for stabilization. While there is no dedicated primary sludge
thickener at the plant, solids concentration of primary sludge is maximized through
careful monitoring and adjustment of primary sludge pumping controls.
Solids are stabilized by the anaerobic digestion process and then dewatered by a
belt press. To reduce water content in the stabilized sludge, a polymer is injected
into the sludge as it is being pumped to the belt press. Typically, sludge pumped to
the belt press is approximately 2 to 3 percent solids. Sludge leaving the belt press is
approximately 14 to 16 percent solids. The filtrate removed from the de-watered
sludge is pumped back to the liquid process flow streams for further treatment.
The plant utilizes a concrete-lined sludge drying bed where dewatered solids from
the belt press may be spread by tractor for further solar drying.
Generally, during rainy seasons, de-watered solids from the belt press are placed
directly into trucks and taken to a biosolids contractor where the solids are blended
with greenwaste and composted in accordance with biosolids regulations. During the
rest of the year, the drying bed is utilized prior to removal by the composting
company.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around this Facility.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic for this Facility.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Discharge Points for Tertiary Treated Water
The Discharger discharges tertiary treated wastewater to surface waters at two
discharge points designated as Discharge Point (DP-001) and Discharge Point (DP-
002), see Table 3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

