[Page 66]
2. Current Wastewater Treatment Facility
resulted in decreased infiltration and inflow.
The current wastewater treatment Facility has an average dry weather design treatment
capacity of 1.0 mgd and an average monthly wet weather treatment capacity of 2.2 mgd. The
treatment system consists of a Parshall Flume for influent flow monitoring, rag screening,
grit removal, primary clarification, two-stage trickling filters, secondary clarification,
chlorination using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite. Effluent
is discharged through a diffuser at Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean.
Sludge from the primary clarifier is pumped to a gravity thickener and then to two
anaerobic digesters. Skimmings from the primary clarifier are sent to an unlined grease
lagoon for drying and storage, and then are taken to a municipal solid waste landfill for final
disposal. Sludge from the secondary clarifier is pumped back to the primary clarifier and
then the commingled sludge is pumped to the sludge thickener before being conveyed to the
primary digester. The digested primary and secondary settled sludge is dewatered to a
minimum of 15 percent solids in a gravity belt press. Additional sludge drying takes place in
sludge drying beds prior to landfill disposal or land application. The sludge drying beds have
3. Upgraded Wastewater Treatment Facility
been demolished to make room for construction of the Aero-Mod facility.
The Permittee is currently constructing upgrades to the Facility. Construction of the upgrade
project is expected to be completed in September 2019 and the upgraded wastewater
treatment facility is expected to be operational by October 2019.
The upgraded treatment system has been designed with an average dry weather design
treatment capacity of 0.8 mgd and an average daily wet weather treatment capacity of 4.9
mgd. The upgraded treatment system consists of a Parshall flume for influent flow
monitoring prior to the headworks, headworks, grit removal, equalized influent flow
monitoring following the Influent Pump Station, Aero-Mod system, chlorine disinfection
using sodium hypochlorite, and sodium bisulfite dichlorination. The Aero-Mod system is an
extended aeration, activated sludge treatment system that includes a selector tank, two first-
stage aeration (nitrification) tanks, two second-stage aeration (denitrification) tanks, and
two clarification tanks. The existing clarifiers will be repurposed and used as flow
equalization basins during large storm events and to allow maintenance of the influent
pump station when needed.
Sludge generated from the Aero-Mod system will be treated in aerobic digestion tanks and
dewatered through a belt filter press. Dewatered sludge from the belt filter press will be
placed in the sludge drying beds prior to landfill disposal or land application. New sludge
drying beds will be constructed in the footprint of the old trickling filters.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 67]
Order No. R1-2019-0020
Fort Bragg Municipal Improvement District No. 1
NPDES No. CA0023078
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated wastewater is discharged to the Pacific Ocean west of the Facility at Discharge Point 001
at 39° 26’ 25” N latitude and 123° 49’ 4” W longitude.
The outfall was constructed in 1977 and extends approximately 650 feet

[Page 67]
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated wastewater is discharged to the Pacific Ocean west of the Facility at Discharge Point 001
at 39° 26’ 25” N latitude and 123° 49’ 4” W longitude.
The outfall was constructed in 1977 and extends approximately 650 feet offshore to an average
ocean depth of 20 feet (mean sea level datum) with a diffuser system designed to produce a 50:1
dilution at peak flow conditions. The outfall consists of a 24-inch reinforced concrete pipe
anchored in a trench in bedrock by anchor bolts every 12 feet and encased within approximately
20 inches of concrete. Treated wastewater is discharged through a diffuser comprising 14 6-inch
aluminum bronze risers that project vertically every 8 feet near the end of the outfall. Each riser
terminates in a 3-inch diffuser port directed parallel to the seafloor. As built, each port was
covered with a natural rubber flapper. A 2012 dive inspection revealed that five of the fourteen
diffusers were plugged with sediment and only one flapper valve remained. The Permittee hired
divers in Novembe

===PLANNED CHANGES===

