[Page 1]
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) concentration of 255 mg/L based on data collected
annually from 2015 through 2019.
The WWTP consists of a collection system equipped with five lift stations, six ponds,
and five acres of Land application Areas (LAAs). The ponds are located about three
quarters of a mile from Camanche Reservoir. The site plan is shown on Attachments B,
which is incorporated herein. All ponds are unlined except for Pond 5, which is clay
lined. Ponds 1 through 3 are aerated treatment ponds with a total storage capacity of
4.9 acre-feet based on two feet of free board. Pond 6 is an effluent storage pond. Ponds
4 and 5 serve as backup ponds when extra storage is needed in the wet season. The
total capacity of Ponds 4, 5 and 6 is 19.5 acre-feet based on two feet of free board. The
six ponds have a total area of five and half acres. The depths of Ponds 1 through 5 rang
from six to eight feet and Pond 6 has a depth of four feet.
[Page 2]
Chandra Johannesson - 3 - 12 June 2020
East Bay Municipal Utility District
Treated wastewater from Pond 3 is pumped into the effluent storage Pond 6 and then is
applied to the LAAs for disposal via sprinkle systems. A tailwater-return system was
installed around the LAAs in order to return irrigation runoff to Pond 6 by gravity. Both
influent and effluent are measured by flow meters. The process schematic is shown on
Attachment C, which is incorporated herein. The WWTP is connected to the
Discharger’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system for operation monitoring.
The influent wastewater is pumped directly from Lift Station No. 1 to Pond 1 with no
upstream screening or solids removal. The settled solids in the lift stations are pumped
out on a quarterly basis and handled appropriately by a licensed contractor. Solids are
hauled to Sierra Septic located in the City of Sutter Creek where the liquid and solids
are separated. Wastewater generated from solid separation at Sierra Septic is hauled to
Sutter Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant (regulated under WDRs 94-152) and the
solids are taken to Forward Landfill in French Camp. Settled solids in the ponds are
removed as needed. In 2007, solids were removed from Ponds. 1, 2, 3, and 6 and
disposed of at a licensed landfill.
The 2014-2019 five-year monthly average flow rates during the peak summer season
ranged from 0.018 MGD in July to 0.013 MGD in September. For the nonpeak season,
including wet weather, the January flow rates ranged from 0.012 MGD in November to
0.016 MGD. The RWD states that the WWTP does not experience significant inflow and
infiltration d

===PLANNED CHANGES===

