[Page 1]
78,000 gpd estimated for July of each year.
The current WWTF provides tertiary treatment that combines an activated sludge process,
membranes to filter the wastewater, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Wastewater from the
Tenaya Lodge cottages and hotel is conveyed to a headworks by way of a gravity sewer
main. In the headworks, wastewater is filtered through dual bar screens with 3-millimeter
openings, before being transferred to the main treatment system. Filtered material
captured in the screens is disposed of at the Mariposa County Sanitary Landfill. Sludge
separated from the effluent in the treatment process is dewatered using a centrifuge. It is
estimates that once the Explorer Cabins come on line, the WWTF will produce about
120 pounds of sludge per day which will be placed in a roll off bin for subsequent disposal
at the Mariposa County Sanitary Landfill.
The filtered wastewater is collected in a 50,000 gallon underground fiberglass equalization
tank with aeration to provide mixing. From the equalization tank, the wastewater is then
pumped into the anoxic basin inside the treatment plant building. The anoxic basin is
sized for denitrification and has a mixer to maintain the solids in solution while not
providing any air to the waste. The flow is moved to the aerated membrane bioreactor
(MBR) via pumps. The MBR has a dissolved oxygen (DO) probe to monitor the DO in the
basin and adjust the level of the blowers. Within this system is the UV treatment process
which acts as a disinfectant and is the last treatment step prior to dispersal. Additionally,
an existing centrifuge is utilized, as well as an off-board waste activated sludge (WAS)
storage. The centrifuge acts as a de-watering process to separate suspended solids from
the treated water prior to membrane filtration and disinfection.
Central Valley Water Board staff and Mariposa County Health Department (Mariposa
County) staff have had concerns regarding the disposal capacity of the leachfields dating
back to the late 1990’s (daylighting effluent), particularly during November and December,
[Page 2]
Mr. Brian Fulce - 3 - 9 August 2017
Delaware North Companies, Inc.
Tenaya Lodge
when only the leachfields could be used for disposal. DNC had the Salem Engineering
Group (Salem) evaluate the capacity of the disposal systems. Salem excavated six test
pits and performed six percolation tests in the area of the leachfields in 2015. Salem
concluded that the actual capacity of the leachfields is 34,600 gpd and the capacity of the
subsurface drip disposal system is 64,250 gpd.
Using the information from the Salem Report and anticipated lodge occupancies, DNC
submitted a Revised RWD on 6 June 2016 in support of the Explorer Cabin project. The
Revised RWD included estimates of the volume of wastewater that would be generated at
the Tenaya Lodge on a monthly basis and were based on past

[Page 2]
Tenaya Lodge
when only the leachfields could be used for disposal. DNC had the Salem Engineering
Group (Salem) evaluate the capacity of the disposal systems. Salem excavated six test
pits and performed six percolation tests in the area of the leachfields in 2015. Salem
concluded that the actual capacity of the leachfields is 34,600 gpd and the capacity of the
subsurface drip disposal system is 64,250 gpd.
Using the information from the Salem Report and anticipated lodge occupancies, DNC
submitted a Revised RWD on 6 June 2016 in support of the Explorer Cabin project. The
Revised RWD included estimates of the volume of wastewater that would be generated at
the Tenaya Lodge on a monthly basis and were based on past occupancy and water
usage. Central Valley Water Board staff reviewed the data and compared it to real time
data collected from the newly upgraded WWTF and found that the Revised RWD greatly
underestimated the actual flows in the months of November through February of each
year.
Due to those concerns, DNC submitted Report of Waste Discharge – Amendment No. 2
on 6 February 2017 that proposes to add 908 linear feet of leachfield trench to the existing
central leachfield. The added trenches will result in the three leachfield areas having a
total of 3,392 feet of leachfield and will increase the disposal capacity to 45,835 gpd. Blair,
Church, and Flynn also submitted climatic data and requested that the subsurface drip
system be allowed for use in the first 15-days of November and the last 15-days of March
if snow is not on the ground. The dual usage of the subsurface drip system along with a
150,000 gallon storage tank and the expanded leachfield should provide sufficient disposal
capacity at the Tenaya Lodge.
The results for electrical conductivity (EC), total dissolved solids (TDS), biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), and nitrate as nitrogen from the new WWTF since February 2016
are presented in Table 1. The results are from 14 samples collected from February 2016
through March 2017. The numbers below the results in parentheses are the ran

===PLANNED CHANGES===

