[Page 12]
Lonnie M. Wass - 2 - 8 July 2016
South Entrance Station OWTS
Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for Small
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Systems (General Order).
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The United States Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Yosemite National
Park (Yosemite or Discharger) is proposing construction of a new onsite wastewater
treatment system that will serve a new Visitor Contact Center and to upgrade the
existing domestic wastewater systems currently present at the South Entrance Station
in southern Yosemite National Park. The South Entrance Station is at the intersection
of State Highway 41, Wawona Road, and the Mariposa Grove Road in Mariposa
County. The existing domestic wastewater system at the South Entrance Station
consists of flush toilets at the “Ranger Office” and the “Historic Comfort Station”.
The proposed improvements at the South Entrance Station are to be done in two
phases, with the construction of an onsite domestic wastewater treatment facility
(WWTF) and the upgrading of the existing Ranger Office and the Historic Comfort
Station in the summer and fall of 2016, and the construction of the proposed Visitor
Contact Station in 2016 - 2017.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Discharger proposes to replace the existing septic tanks at the Ranger Office and
the Historic Comfort Station. The new septic tanks at the Historic Comfort Center and
the Ranger office will have capacities of 15,000 gallons and 2,000 gallons, respectively.
The existing fixtures at the Historic Comfort Station and the Ranger office will be
replaced by low flow plumbing fixtures. The septic tank for the new Visitor Contact
Center will have a 55,000 gallon capacity and the Visitor Contact Center will be
equipped with 17 low-flow toilets, three waterless urinals, and 10 low-flow sinks. There
will be no RV waste collection facilities. From the new septic tanks, wastewater will be
conveyed via a 6-inch PVC pipe to a 20,000 gallon dosing tank for flow equalization.
The effluent is then discharged from the dosing tank to one of two pumping basins.
Each basin contains two duplex dosing pumps.
The effluent will then be discharged from the pumping basins into a new 3-acre
leachfield southwest of the South Entrance Station along an existing service road on a
gently sloping hillside that slopes to the south/southwest. The proposed leachfield will
consist of 11,520 linear feet of pressure distribution leach trench and will be constructed
in four cells each with 2,880 linear feet. Each cell is equipped with its own 6-outlet
automatic, SCADA monitored distributing valve, and each cell consists of six zones
typically with two 120-foot laterals. Each leachfield cell will have an inspection port in
each leachfield lateral for monitoring wastewater depth in the leach trenches. Two
groundwater monitoring wells with groundwater elevation level-loggers will be installed
at the base of the leachfield to measure the depth to water below the leachfield area.
The RWD indicates the anticipated average daily flow from the new Visitor Contact
Center will be about 9,500 gallons per day (gpd) with peak flows of 15,830 gpd on
[Page 13]
Lonnie M. Wass - 3 - 8 July 2016
South Entrance Station OWTS
holidays. The average flow anticipated from the Historic Comfort Station will be about
2,300 gpd with a peak flow of 3,890 gpd. The peak flow at the Ranger of

[Page 13]
34 min/in. According to Table 5, Minimum Depth to Groundwater and Minimum Soil
Depth from the Bottom of Dispersal System of the General Order, the minimum depth to
groundwater requirement for percolation rates between 30 and 120 min/in is 5 feet bgs.
While groundwater was not encountered in any of the test pits or the piezometers (B-14
installed in the proposed leachfield to a depth of 25 feet bgs), the Discharger will install
two-groundwater monitoring wells at the base of the proposed leachfield to measure
groundwater levels and to ensure the discharge meets the required setback.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the
General Order are appropriate for this discharge:
 Septic Tank Monitoring,
 Subsurface Disposal Area,
 Depth to Groundwater Measurements,
 Reporting.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

