[Page 94]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Permittee owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility (WWTF)
and associated wastewater disposal facility that serve a population of approximately
15,372 within Crescent City and the surrounding County Service Area (CSA). The
CSA has two sub-areas: the Northwest area to the north of the City and the Bertsch
Ocean View area to the east of the City.
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater and has an
average dry weather design treatment capacity of 1.86 mgd and a peak wet
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 95]
CITY OF CRESCENT CITY ORDER NO. R1-2023-0039
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0022756
weather flow capacity of 6.12 mgd. The Permittee has three significant industrial
users, including a cheese factory and two breweries that are covered under local
pretreatment permits to discharge to the Facility.
The Permittee and CSA each maintain a separate sanitary sewer collection
system within the service area. Flows generated within the CSA are collected and
conveyed in the CSA’s satellite collection system to the limits of the Permittee’s
system. The Permittee’s system then conveys combined City and County-
generated flows to the Facility, which is owned and maintained by the Permittee.
The headworks includes a mechanically cleaned screen, a flow-measuring
Parshall flume, and a wet well in which five pumps are available to lift the flow to
the primary clarifiers. Primary treatment consists of two grit removal tanks followed
by two rectangular primary clarifiers. Secondary treatment is provided by operating
the rotating biological contactors (RBC) and membrane bioreactor (MBR) in
parallel. The RBC system consists of three trains of four-stage, RBCs with a
combined surface area of 1.2 million square feet. Flow from the RBCs reach three
rectangular secondary clarifiers. Flows from the clarifiers and any flow from the
MBR unit that is not used for recycled water use are commingled and disinfected
using sodium hypochlorite and dechlorinated using sodium bisulfite prior to
discharge to the Pacific Ocean at Discharge Point 001.
The Permittee has the capability of producing tertiary-2.2 recycled water utilizing
flow from the MBR and an ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection system that was
installed in 2010. The Permittee does not currently have any recycled water use
sites, but may produce recycled water in the future if recycled water use sites are
identified. The capacity of the recycled water system is 1.2 mgd; however, the
MBR can treat up to 1.6 mgd.
Solids handling consists of gravity thickening primary sludge, rotary drum
thickening of secondary sludge, and anaerobic digestion of thickened solids. Both
digesters are heated and mixed. Digested solids are dewatered using a belt filter
press and hauled to a landfill.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Treated wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 at 41° 44’ 38” N latitude
and 124° 12’ 10” W longitude to the Pacific Ocean. The outfall consists of a 24-
inch ductile iron pipe that has an effluent conveyance capacity of 11 mgd to 13
mgd, depending on tide conditions. The outfall structure is sloped downward and
discharges into a rocky slot in the surf zone adjacent to Battery Point Lighthouse.
Treated wastewater may also be discharged to the recycled water system at
Discharge Point 002.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 96]
CITY OF CRESCE

===PLANNED CHANGES===

