[Page 4]
2. Any activity that produces a waste and discharges to existing high quality
waters will be required to meet WDRs that will result in the best practicable
treatment or control of the discharge necessary to assure pollution or
nuisance will not occur, and the highest water quality consistent with the
maximum benefit to the people of the state will be maintained.
This Order allows discharge to groundwater considered high quality
groundwater for nitrogen, Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), and coliform organisms
and designated for domestic and municipal supply (MUN) in the Basin Plan.
This Order is consistent with Resolution No. 68-16 because implementation of
the Order will result in Best Practicable Treatment or Control2 of the discharge
and lead to a net benefit to water quality by providing a higher level of treatment
1 The Board interprets “high quality waters” as the best water quality that has existed
since the Policy was adopted in 1968 after considering any subsequently authorized
degradation that has been allowed in compliance with the Policy.
2 Learn about Effluent Guidelines | US EPA (https://www.epa.gov/eg/learn-about-effluent-
guidelines)
[Page 5]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 6 -
Hopland PUD WWTF
WDR Order No. R1-2023-0013
and control than individual septic systems, some of which are failing due to age
and poor site conditions.
Best Practicable Treatment and Control at this facility consists of a wastewater
collection system, treatment plant, and percolation ponds. Treatment will
consist of screening, biological oxidation and solids settling in aerated and
facultative ponds, and chlorine disinfection. Secondary treated effluent will be
conveyed alternately to two percolation ponds. The manner of waste treatment
and disposal are consistent with the manner of treatment and disposal at
similarly situated facilities. This Order contains discharge prohibitions, effluent
limitations, receiving water limitations, monitoring requirements, and a provision
to assess potential impacts to groundwater and surface waters and bring the
discharge into compliance with groundwater limitati

===PLANNED CHANGES===

