[Page 96]
The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 3.01 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 24.5 mgd of secondary treated wastewater, as well as
a peak wet weather flow of 7.0 mgd of advanced treated wastewater. The
Facility’s secondary treatment train consists of an influent wet well, bar screens,
aerated grit removal, primary clarifiers, trickling filters, aerated solids contact
tank, secondary clarifiers, and a chlorine contactor pipe where secondary
disinfection is performed using sodium hypochlorite. The Facility’s advanced
treatment train includes the addition of ferric chloride and polymer to adsorption
clarifiers and multi-media filters.
Advanced treated effluent is disinfected with sodium hypochlorite in the tertiary
chlorine contact basin and sent to the Recycled Water Storage Ponds for
distribution to recycled water users. When there is insufficient capacity in the
Recycled Water Storage Ponds, secondary effluent is disinfected with sodium
hypochlorite in the secondary chlorine contact basin and sent to the percolation
ponds for disposal. If there is insufficient capacity in the recycled water storage
ponds or the percolation ponds during the allowable discharge season (October
1 through May 14), the advanced treated effluent is dechlorinated with sodium
bisulfite and discharged to the Russian River.
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected tertiary recycled water. The Facility has
three recycled water storage ponds with synthetic liners to provide storage for
the disinfected tertiary treated recycled water and delivers it to authorized
recycled water users. Recycled water is delivered by a recycled water pump
station and transmission system to a recycled water fill station and metered
customers. Delivery of recycled water to users began in July 2019.
This Order includes requirements for the production of r

[Page 96]
2.1.4. Biosolids Management
Biosolids generated during the treatment process are reduced through
thickening in dissolved air flotation units followed by stabilization using
anaerobic digesters (mesothermic). Digested sludge is dewatered using a belt-
filter press. During the term of this permit, the belt-filter press is anticipated to be
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 97]
CITY OF UKIAH ORDER NO. R1-2024-0016
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0022888
replaced with a FKC Screw Press that can operate continuously (through
SCADA) that will reduce the pollutant loading of the pressate returned to the
headworks after biosolids treatment.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The Facility is located within the Ukiah Hydrologic Subarea within the Upper
Russian River Hydrologic Unit.
2.2.2. During the wet weather season (October 1 – May 14), effluent treated in
accordance with permit requirements in section 4.1 of the Order may be
discharged from the Facility via an outfall pipe at Discharge Po

===PLANNED CHANGES===

planned changes to the Facility include SCADA/PLC upgrades to improve
communication and reliability of the Facility’s control system. This upgrade will
also allow for remote viewing of WWTP data and better protection against cyber
threats. Additional planned changes include the replacement of the belt filter press
with a FKC Screw Press, installation of a new Suspended Air Floatation (SAF)
system for solids treatment, and installation of a septage receiving station.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
Calif