[Page 92]
Plant (JWPCP), and La Canada WRP (non-industrial). Due to the
interconnectedness of this system, it is appropriate to formally evaluate local limits
for all treatment plants on the system at one time so that conditions throughout the
system can be considered. The Districts have reviewed the discharge limitations in
the NPDES permits issued to these facilities and have found that changes to
existing local limits are not necessary to meet the limitations. The most recent local
limits evaluation was submitted to the Los Angeles Water Board in April 2018,
following the NPDES permit adoption of the Joint Water Pollution Control Plant. In
that evaluation, JOS found that the existing limits were fully protective of the JOS
system and concluded that changes to existing local limits did not appear to be
necessary to meet the limitations.
2.1.2. Treatment at the Whittier Narrows WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, inert media filtration, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The UV
disinfection system has been incorporated into a dual barrier disinfection system
which includes application of chlorine as free chlorine at a very low dosage
upstream of the UV disinfection to inactivate any virus that is not readily susceptible
to UV, followed by UV disinfection to inactivate any other pathogens that are more
susceptible to UV. Since effluent that has been disinfected using the UV process
does not carry residual chlorine, a minimal amount of chlorine is added to the UV-
disinfected effluent to provide minimal residual chlorine to reclaimed water supplied
for direct reuse. Treated wastewater that is not conveyed to direct reuse is
dechlorinated prior to discharge in order to remove any chlorine residual. Treated
wastewater discharged to San Gabriel River and Rio Hondo is dechlorinated.
2.1.3. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal and are regulated by Order Number R4-2017-0180 (NPDES
Number CA0053813). Attachment C is a schematic of the Whittier Narrows WRP
wastewater flow.
2.1.4. The Permittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
de-nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted Order: 6/10/2021) F-5
[Page 93]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021-0096
WHITTIER NARROWS WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053716
Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since
September 2003.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiv

===PLANNED CHANGES===

