[Page 89]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Saugus WRP, a tertiary wastewater treatment plant located at 26200
Springbrook Avenue, Santa Clarita, CA 91350, currently receives wastewater from
the City of Santa Clarita and unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County. The
wastewater is a mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 05/12/2022 F-5
[Page 90]
SANTA CLARITA VALLEY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2022-0175
SAUGUS WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054313
pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR part 403. Saugus WRP has a design capacity of 6.5
MGD and serves an estimated population of 79,376 people.
The Saugus WRP is part of an integrated network of facilities, known as the SCVSD.
The SCVSD currently incorporates the Valencia WRP and the Saugus WRP, which
are connected by interceptors and trunk sewers. The SCVSD system allows for the
diversion of influent flows from the Saugus WRP to the Valencia WRP if so desired.
2.1.2. The Discharger has undertaken a full evaluation of local limits for the SCVSD in the
Santa Clara River Watershed. The most recent local limits evaluation was submitted
to the Los Angeles Water Board on October 29, 2015. In that evaluation, SCVSD
found that the existing limits were fully protective of the SCVSD system. However, a
re-evaluation will be required and the Permittee shall submit to the Los Angeles
Water Board a revised local limits evaluation for Los Angeles Water Board approval
within 180 days of the effective date of Order No. R4-2022-0175.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Saugus WRP consists of influent screening, primary sedimentation,
activated sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, dual media pressure filtration, disinfection (UV and/or
chloramination), and dechlorination as needed.
2.1.4. Hypochlorite and ammonia are used to disinfect treated effluent at the Saugus WRP
prior to discharging the effluent to the Santa Clara River. Disinfecting agent may be
added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens and
viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional disinfectant may be
dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. UV disinfection will be a new
disinfection process used at the Saugus WRP to reduce chloride discharge to the
Santa Clara River. However, the chloramination disinfection system will be retained
as a backup disinfection process. Treated wastewater discharged to Santa Clara
River is dechlorinated with sodium bisulfite, to remove residual chlorine when
chloramines are used as the disinfecting agent.
2.1.5. Biosolids from both the Valencia and the Saugus WRPs are processed at the
Valencia WRP and hauled offsite. Waste activated sludge from both the Saugus and
Valencia WRPs is thickened by dissolved air flotation. Thickened waste activated
sludge and primary sludge are combined, digested anaerobically, dewatered and
then reused through composting, although the permittee may also dispose of
biosolids in a landfill or by direct land application. Attachment C contains schematics
of the Saugus WRP wastewater flow.
2.1.6. The Permittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
denitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since
September 2003. SCVSD installed the UV disinfection system at the Saugus WRP
on July 20, 2021, in accordance with the milestones established in Time Schedule
Order No. R4-2019-0056-A02, adopted by the Los Angeles Water Board on July 8,
2021. SCVSD continued optimizing the UV system during the fourth quarter 2021
and first quarter 2022 as follows: tested UV performance, implemented corrective
actions (replaced UV intensity sensors, increased UV

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
SCVSD plans on meeting the TMDL-based chloride final effluent limitation by upgrading its
disinfection system, designing, and constructing additional treatment equipment, in
accordance with the deadlines established in TSO No. R4-2019-0056-A02. The UV
technology will be designed to disinfect the treated effluent, lower the amounts of
disinfection byproducts produced, as well as reduce chloride concentrations by
approximately 7 mg/L.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California
Water Code (commencing with section 13