[Page 97]
Water Board, within 180 days of the effective date of Order No. R4-2022-0174, a
revised local limits evaluation for Los Angeles Water Board approval.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Valencia WRP consists of influent screening, primary
sedimentation, primary effluent equalization, activated sludge biological treatment
with nitrification and denitrification, secondary sedimentation, inert media filtration,
disinfection (UV and/or chloramination), and dechlorination (as needed). Treated
wastewater discharged to Santa Clara River is dechlorinated when chloramines are
used as the disinfecting agent.
2.1.4. Hypochlorite and ammonia are still used to disinfect treated effluent at the Valencia
WRP prior to discharging the effluent to the Santa Clara River. SCVSD plans on
using chloramines as the disinfecting agent for its recycled water program, which is
regulated under separate Waste Discharge Requirements that serve as Water
Reclamation Requirements. However, once the UV disinfection system is optimized,
UV disinfection will replace the chloramine disinfection system for portion of the
effluent that is discharged to the Santa Clara River. Disinfecting agent is added to
the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and
to minimize algal growth in the filters. Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to
the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. Prior to discharge, sulfur dioxide and/or
sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
2.1.5. Biosolids from both the Valencia and the Saugus WRPs are processed at the
Valencia WRP and hauled offsite. Waste activated sludge from both the Saugus and
Valencia WRPs is thickened by dissolved air flotation. Thickened waste activated
sludge and primary sludge are combined, digested anaerobically, dewatered and
then reused through composting, although the permittee may also dispose of
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
Adopted: 05/12/2022 F-6
[Page 98]
SANTA CLARITA VALLEY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R4-2022-0174
VALENCIA WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054216
biosolids in a landfill or by direct land application.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
SCVSD plans on meeting the TMDL-based chloride final effluent limitation by upgrading its
disinfection system, designing, and constructing additional treatment equipment, in
accordance with the deadlines established in TSO No. R4-2019-0055 and its
amendments. The UV technology will be designed to disinfect the treated effluent, lower
the amounts of disinfection byproducts produced, as well as reduce chloride
concentrations by approximately 7 mg/L.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California
Water Code (commencing with section 13