[Page 6]
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
Oak Hills Wastewater Treatment Plant (Wastewater System) is a Class I wastewater
system. California American Water must staff a Grade I chief plant operator for proper
operation of the Wastewater System. The current chief plant operator is Robert Moss,
Grade 3, License Number 41116.
In the notice of intent, California American Water proposes that the Wastewater System
is designed to treat and dispose of 125,000 gallons per day to a secondary treatment
level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies shown in Table 2.
The Central Coast Water Board is permitting the operation and disposal of the system
as described below. California American Water must not change operation or disposal
technology without Central Coast Water Board notification and review.
Table 2. Treatment Technology
The headworks consist of one lift station. The station does
Headworks/Preliminary not have any influent screening. Manual maintenance is
Treatment performed to remove large debris from the suction side of
influent pumps.
Conventional treatment ponds are used. The main
treatment pond (Pond 2) is 8-acres wide and 7 feet deep
equipped with two floating aerators. The water from the
Primary and main treatment pond then flows to Pond 1, a 0.4-acre wide
Secondary Treatment and 7 feet deep pond before disposal. The ponds are not
synthetically lined. Wastewater flows from Pond 2 to Pond
3 via gravity. Ponds provide both primary and biological
treatment.
From Pond 1, wastewater is land disposed via spray fields
Wastewater Disposal
with a total area of approximently 15 acres. Currently, only
Method
half of the area is used.
Pond 3 is an unlined emergency overflow storage pond.
Wastewater Storage
Any wastewater that flows in pond 3 stays in pond 3.
Solids are accumulated in the treatment ponds and are
only removed by dredging and then disposed at a nearby
municipal landfill facility when needed. There has been no
Biosolids/Sludge
disposal from the pond during California American Water’s
Production and
ownership.
Handling
The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is Monterey
Regional Waste Management District - Landfill Facility
located at 14201 Del Monte Blvd, Marina, CA
A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3,
which were reported in California American Water’s annual monitoring reports. A
su

===PLANNED CHANGES===

