[Page 84]
Jose Creek and Whittier Narrows WRPs, as well as JWPCP, and La Canada WRP
(non-industrial). Due to the interconnectedness of this system, it is appropriate to
formally evaluate local limits for all treatment plants on the system at one time so
that conditions throughout the system can be considered. The Districts have
reviewed the discharge limitations in the NPDES permits issued to these facilities
and have found that changes to existing local limits are not necessary to meet the
limitations. The most recent local limits evaluation was submitted to the Los Angeles
Water Board in April 2018, following the NPDES permit adoption of the Joint Water
Pollution Control Plant. In that evaluation, JOS found that the existing limits were
fully protective of the JOS system. However, a re-evaluation will be required
following the renewal of the NPDES permit issued to JWPCP.
2.1.3. Treatment at the Los Coyotes WRP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, inert media filtration, chloramination, and dechlorination. Treated
wastewater that is not conveyed to direct reuse is dechlorinated prior to discharge in
order to remove chlorine residual. Treated wastewater discharged to San Gabriel
River is dechlorinated.
2.1.4. Hypochlorite and ammonia are used as disinfectants at the Los Coyotes WRP.
Disinfecting agent is added to the treated effluent prior to the filters to destroy
bacteria, pathogens and viruses, and to minimize algal growth in the filters.
Additional disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact
chamber. Prior to discharge, sulfur dioxide and/or sodium bisulfite is added to the
treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
2.1.5. No facilities are provided for solids processing at the plant. Sewage solids separated
from the wastewater are returned to the trunk sewer for conveyance to JWPCP for
treatment and disposal and are regulated by Order Number R4-2017-0180 (NPDES
Number CA0053813). Attachment C is a schematic of the Los Coyotes WRP
wastewater flow.
2.1.6. The Permittee has constructed a biological nutrient removal system with a nitrogen
denitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance with the ammonia
Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has been in operation since
September 2003.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET (Adopted Order: 12/9/2021) F-5
[Page 85]
JOINT OUTFALL SYSTEM ORDER R4-2021-0142
LOS COYOTES WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0054011
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Los Coyotes WRP discharg

===PLANNED CHANGES===

