[Page 1]
3. On page 3, paragraph No. 11 is revised as follows:
A. The SPWRF treats wastewater generated within the City and is designed for a
flow of 4.2 MGD. Based on the discharge records between July 2010 and June
2017, the monthly average effluent discharged from the SPWRF ranged
between 1.36 and 2.44 MGD, with an average of 1.86 MGD. The monthly
average effluent discharge flow rates between February 2018 and
December 2021 ranged from 1.03 to 3.4 MGD, with an average of 1.86
MGD.
B. The wastewater treatment process at the SPWRF (See Figure 3 for process
flow schematic) consists of preliminary treatment (coarse and fine mechanical
screening and grit removal at the Influent Lift Station), flow equalization (two
flow equalization tanks), secondary treatment (three aeration tanks with
nitrification and denitrification activated sludge), tertiary treatment (six
biomembrane bioreactors, providing further carbonaceous oxidation,
nitrification/denitrification and solids removal to meet the limits of the WDRs),
and disinfection (UV). Treated and disinfected effluent is discharged to three
2
[Page 2]
percolation ponds (Figure 45). The returned activated sludge is treated at two
of three aerobic digesters (one aerobic digester is for backup) after being
thickened at two thickeners. The solids generated at the aerobic digesters
receive final dewatering at the screw dewatering press. Final solids are hauled
by Synagro to their South Kern Compost Manufacturing Facility where
they are composted to meeting the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) Class B A reuse standards are sent to the Ventura County
Regional Bio-Solids facility for agricultural reuse.
C. The SPWRF was not designed to remove chloride. Since the SPWRF has no
ability to remove chloride, chloride is passed through to the effluent and then
groundwater via discharges to the percolation pond. To address levels of
chloride in the effluent, an advanced treatment system, consisting of
reverse osmosis (RO), will be constructed at the SPWRF, which will be
designed to reduce the chloride concentration in the effluent to 110
milligrams per liter (mg/L) or less. The RO system will consist of
nanofiltration and RO units to reduce effluent chloride concentrations
followed by a RO brine concentrator (Figure 4).
4. On page 4, paragraph No. 13 is revised as follows:
On August 23, 2018, the Regional Water Board approved the City’s modified
groundwater monitoring network dated May 1, 2018 to expand the
groundwater monitoring network by including agricultural water supply wells.
Subsequently, on April 22,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

