[Page 3]
1. For All Small Domestic Systems:
a. Odors of sewage origin shall not be perceivable beyond the limits
. of the discharger's property boundaries.
b. The siting, design, construction, operation, maintenance, and
monitoring of all small domestic systems must comply with all of the
applicable provisions of the RWQCB's Basin Plan.
[Page 4]
c. The discharger shall not discharge waste in excess of the
maximum design and disposal capacity of the small domestic
system.
d. The discharge of waste from small domestic systems shall comply.
with all applicable provisions of the RWQCB's Basin Plan, including
but not limited to any prohibitions and water quality objectives.
For Septic Systems, the ~olfowinA~dd itional requirements Apply:
a. Septic tank cleanings shall be'performed only by a duly authorized
service.
b. The discharger shall maintain a log of all septic cleanings. At a
minimum the log shall include the date of the cleaning, and the
name, address, phone number, and license number (if applicable)
of the cleaner.
\
c. Dischargers who accept wastes from RVs or'other mobile waste
systems must ensure that such wastes (with constituents including
formaldehyde, zinc, and phenol) do not deleteriously affect the
septic system or impact the ground water.
.
,
3. For Activated sludge sy,stems,t he Following Additional
,
Requirements Apply: .
If collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid
wastes are disposed of at a landfill, such disposal shall comply with CCR,
Title 23, Section 251 0, et seq. (Chapter 15).
b. If sewage sludge is land applied, disposed of at a monofill, or
incinerated, this activity shall comply with existing Federal,State, ..
and local laws and regulations, including requirements of 40 CFR
a
503, the RWQCB, and the county ordinances, and shall be
approved by the appropriate RWQCB's Executive Officer.
c. The discharger shall submit a sludge disposal plan and obtain the
appropriate RWQCB Executive Officer's written permission prior to
any dispo

===PLANNED CHANGES===

