[Page 147]
The Ojai Valley WWTP was upgraded in 1997 to its current configuration and
treatment methods. The design, configuration, sizing of treatment facilities and
processes were based upon the Los Angeles Water Board’s Basin Plan in effect at
the time and studies related to the Ventura River that indicated a Total Nitrogen
design limit of 8 mg/L was appropriate. The treatment plant has achieved winter total
nitrogen concentrations between 1.3 mg/L and 6.6 mg/L since February 2019. The
current configuration and processes are unable to meet the final effluent limit of 4.6
mg/L in the winter and under 3 mg/L in the summer. A nitrification-denitrification
process is currently under construction to achieve the final effluent limits, including
additional aeration, anoxic tank, carbon (Micro C) injection system, filtration and
multistage treatments options including replacement of the four oxidation ditch
aerators with variable speed aerators to optimize nitrification and denitrification and
a carbon (Micro C) injection system to facilitate to optimize denitrification.
The Discharger evaluated the Facility’s ability to comply with the total nitrogen
effluent limitations and determined that given the high variability of the conditions in
the watershed, and any additional sewer connections in the future, the Facility
cannot consistently meet the final effluent limitations for total nitrogen in this Order.
The data supporting the need for a compliance sche

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Several physical alterations to the Facility associated with the nitrification/denitrification
(NDN) process are proposed by the Permittee as summarized in Table F-4 below.
Construction started on the NDN process on September 12, 2023, and it is scheduled
for completion on March 1, 2024.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 12/21/2023 F-11
[Page 102]
OJAI VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2023-0430
OJAI VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO.CA0053961
Table F-4. Summary of Capital Improvement Projects
Project Name Project Summary
1. Two new Parkson Denitrification filters are 98% complete.
2. Two micro “C” carbon holding tanks have been installed along with a
chemical feed pump system, which has been used to deliver carbon to
the oxidation ditches and to facilitate denitrification in the new and
Construction of retrofitted denitrification filters. The chemical feed system 95% complete.
NDN Process 3. The backwash pump station for the two new denitrification filters to send
filter backwash water back to the head of the plant is 100% complete.
4. Another process upgrade (not started yet) to optimize denitrification
includes the replacement of the aerators in the four existing oxidation
ditches to include adjustable frequency drives.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the California