[Page 126]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Permittee owns and operates the OWRRF located at 6001 Perkins
Road, Oxnard, California. The OWRRF has a total design treatment flow
capacity of 31.7 million gallons per day (MGD) of secondary treated effluent.
Between January 2018 and April 2023, the average daily discharge flow was
15.95 MGD and the maximum daily flow was 29.3 MGD, as reported to the
Los Angeles Water Board. During the same period an average daily flow of
1.58 MGD of disinfected secondary treated effluent from the OWRRF was
conveyed by gravity to the AWPF for additional treatment and reuse. The
AWPF treatment process produces a brine that discharges directly to the
OWRRF ocean outfall. Between January 2018 and April 2023, the average
daily brine flow from the AWPF to the ocean outfall pipeline was 0.23 MGD.
The OWRRF serves a population of 252,000 in the city of Oxnard, the city of
Port Hueneme, the United States Naval Bases in Ventura County, and some
unincorporated areas of Ventura County. The City of Port of Hueneme and
the United States Navy operate separate collection systems, but each
discharge to the City of Oxnard’s treatment plant. Flow to the OWRRF
consists of domestic (69%), industrial (19%), and commercial (12%)
wastewater.
2.1.2. Following is a description of the treatment processes:
a. Preliminary Treatment and Influent Pump Station: Preliminary
treatment at the headworks consists of an inlet junction structure, bar
screens, screenings conveyance, grit removal, and grit conveyance. The
influent junction box collects flow from the Hemlock, Eastern, and Central
Trunk Sewers as well as return flows from the OWRRF and AWPF. From
there, flow is routed to two of six influent screen channels. Four of the screen
channels have mechanical bar screens while the remaining two are
equipped with manual bar screens. From there, flow is routed to one of two
grit chambers to remove grit and other heavy material that is hauled to an
offsite landfill for disposal. Finally, flow is gravity fed to the influent pump
station wet well. The influent pump station includes six dry pit submersible
pumps. During normal operations one or two of the six pumps are on duty.
b. Primary Treatment: Raw wastewater from the headworks flows to four
primary sedimentation basins for primary treatment. Each sedimentation
basin is 105 feet in diameter and equipped with a sludge collector, sludge
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-5
ADOPTED: 05/23/2024
[Page 127]
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
pump, and surface scum removal mechanism. The primary treatment
process includes facilities for adding ferric chloride and polymer to enhance
sedimentation. Ferric chloride destabilizes the suspended particles in the
primary influent wastewater to promote flocculation. The addition of polymer
after floc formation produces a much larger floc, enhancing the settling of
suspended solids in the primary clarifiers.
c. Secondary Treatment: The secondary treatment system removes organic
material from primary effluent and is comprised of trickling filters (biotowers),
activated sludge tanks (ASTs), and secondary sedimentation basins (SSTs).
The primary effluent flows to an interstage pump station (IPS) where it is
pumped by three pumps to the two existing biotowers. The larger biotower is
140 feet in diameter while the smaller biotower is 100 feet in diameter. Flow
from the biotowers re-enters the IPS and is then pumped by three interstage
feed pumps to the ASTs. The OWRRF has two ASTs that can be operated in
a step-f

[Page 128]
Businesses are contracting with private haulers for oil & grease removal.
g. Solids Handling: The solids handling facilities at the OWRRF consist of
two gravity thickeners for primary sludge thickening, two dissolved air
flotation thickeners (DAFTs) for waste activated sludge (WAS) thickening,
three anaerobic digesters, and four belt filter presses (BFPs) for dewatering.
Primary sludge and scum is pumped from the primary clarifiers to the gravity
thickeners. The primary sludge feed is combined at the thickener feed
junction box and discharged to the thickener influent well. Polymer is added
to this sludge stream. The purpose of the gravity thickeners is to reduce the
liquid content in the primary sludge sent to the digesters. WAS from the
secondary clarifiers is pumped from the RAS/WAS pump stations to the
DAFTs where polymer is used to improve the separation of the solids from
the liquid in the WAS flow. The DAFTs separate the solids from the liquid in
the WAS flow by using fine air bubbles to float the sludge particles to the
surface, where it is then scraped off. Volume reduction from WAS thickening
benefits the sludge digestion and dewatering processes by reducing the
volume of sludge to be processed, quantity of chemicals required for sludge
conditioning, and amount of heat required for digestion. The thickened WAS
solids and the thickened primary sludge are combined prior to entering the
digesters. The combined thickened solids are preheated and pumped to the
anaerobic digesters. Digester gas produced through the digestion process is
used to run the three cogeneration engines. Digested solids are pumped to
the solids dewatering facility where they are dewatered through four belt filter
presses (BFP’s). Polymer is added to the digested sludge upstream of the
BFPs to enhance dewatering. Dewatered sludge cake is conveyed to trucks
for transport to an offsite landfill. The main purpose of anaerobic digestion is
to biologically decompose organic material in primary and secondary scum
and sludge to a stable form in compliance with regulatory requirements for
final disposal. Anaerobic digestion also reduces the amount of solids to
dewater, reduces the volume of sludge cake that is hauled to the landfill,
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-7
ADOPTED: 05/23/2024
[Page 129]
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
reduces pathogens in the sludge and produces digester gas that is high in
methane and useful for fueling other equipment. The BFP system is
designed to concentrate the anaerobically digested sludge from a solids
content of less than 3 percent to a range of 18 to 20 percent.
2.1.3. Water Reclamation. Up to 8 MGD of the secondary-treated effluent from
the OWRRF flows to the AWPF for advanced treatment that includes
microfiltration (MF), reverse osmosis (RO), and ultraviolet/advanced
oxidation process (UV/AOP) to produce up to 6.25 MGD recycled water. The
treatment and use of recycled water from the AWPF is regulated under
Order R4-2020-0051 (File No. 08-070). As previously mentioned, the AWPF
permeate is permitted to be used for nonpotable uses and indirect potable
reuse (Aquifer Storage and Recovery (ASR)), but ASR is not yet in
operation. The MF backwash wastewater is returned to the OWRRF’s
headworks, and up to 1.75 MGD RO brine is commingled with the OWRRF’s
secondary-treated effluent and discharged to the Pacific Ocean.
2.1.4. Pretreatment: The OWRRF has an industrial wastewater Pretreatment
Program which is approved by USEPA and the Los Angeles Water Board.
The City’s staff manages a pretreatment program that consists of 1,303
nondomestic dischargers. Forty-five of those dischargers are classified and
permitted as Significant Industrial Users (SIU), and 12 of the SIUs are
Categorical Industrial Users (CIU). The City also regulates and regularly
inspects nonsignificant nondomestic dischargers, including 2 groundwater
remediation sites, 484 discharging auto shops, and 769 food service
establishments. The City issue

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has started work on the following improvement and rehabilitation
projects. None of the projects will increase hydraulic or treatment capacity. All
work, except for the secondary settling tanks, is expected to be complete by the
end of 2025.
Headworks: This project rehabilitates the existing headworks concrete structure
to improve flow metering and odor control. Improvements include replacement of
influent flow meters, rehabilitation of deteriorated concrete, replacement of grit
chamber covers, and the addition of a new odor scrubber to supplement the
existing odor scrubber.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-12
ADOPTED: 05/23/2024
[Page 134]
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY NPDES NO. CA0054097
FACILITY
Primary Clarifiers: This project rehabilitates the existing primary clarifiers to
meet seismic requirements, improve pumping systems, and add odor control.
Improvements include replacement of the internal mechanical systems (center
column, center cage, gates, rake arms, skimmer blades, scum box, flushing
valve, and drive motor), installation of new solids and scum pumps, replacement
of underground piping, seismic retrofitting, and installation of a new odor control
system.
Secondary Aeration Basins: This project rehabilitates and upgrades the
secondary aeration basins to meet seismic requirements and improve
operational efficiency. Improvements include repairing deteriorating concrete,
making structural improvements, replacing primary and RAS influent piping,
removing interpass gates, replacing step-feed and effluent gates, installing
baffles, installing new flexible membrane aeration system and associated piping,
installing new mechanical mixers in the anaerobic zones, installing new control
valves and flow meters, and installing a new programmable logic controller and
dissolved oxygen control. After project completion, the aeration basins will
operate in series instead of the current serpentine approach.
Secondary Settling Tanks: This project will rehabilitate 18 secondary settling
tanks over the next five years to improve the existing structural and mechanical
systems. Improvements include repair of deteriorating concrete and the
replacement of all mechanical equipment including chains, sprockets, flights,
drives and scum tubes.
Electrical Equipment: A new primary electrical building is being constructed to
replace the existing building which was built around 1975. The pro