[Page 94]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Permittee owns the ECLWRF located at 1935 South Hughes Way, El
Segundo, California. The Facility treats secondary effluent provided by the City of
Los Angeles’ Hyperion WRP to various water qualities depending on the end use
of the recycled water. The end uses of the recycled water include: irrigation; high
and low pressure boiler feed water for the Chevron El Segundo Refinery boilers;
cooling tower makeup water for the refineries, and groundwater injection to the
West Coast Basin Barrier Project. The brine waste discharge permitted by this
Order is generated by the reverse osmosis treatment systems needed to
produce the boiler feedwater and the recycled water for groundwater
replenishment. The pipelines between Hyperion WRP and ECLWRF that convey
secondary-treated effluent and untreated brine waste are owned and maintained
by the Permittee.
The ECLWRF currently has a total wastewater treatment design capacity of 62.5
MGD and produces recycled water using three treatment processes; 1) a
disinfected tertiary treatment system, 2) an advanced treatment train consisting
of ozone, microfiltration, and reverse osmosis for industrial boiler feed water, and
3) an advanced treatment train consisting of ozone, microfiltration, reverse
osmosis, and advanced oxidation for injection into the West Coast Groundwater
Basin as a seawater intrusion barrier. The schematic for the advanced treatment
train is provided in Attachment C-1. The brine waste stream is a byproduct of the
reverse osmosis treatment, as shown in Attachment C-1. Between 2017 and
2022, a daily maximum of 3.85 MGD of brine waste was generated from the
reverse osmosis trains of the advanced treatment facility and discharged to the
Pacific Ocean. The advanced treatment facilities currently produce up to 17.5
MGD of recycled water for indirect potable reuse for the West Coast Basin
Barrier Project and another 4.8 MGD of reverse osmosis permeate for refinery
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-6
ADOPTED: 11/16/2023
[Page 95]
WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R4-2023-0368
EDWARD C. LITTLE WATER RECYCLING FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0063401
boiler feed water makeup. As shown in Attachment C-1, the advanced oxidation
process is only needed for groundwater injection and includes ultraviolet light
with hydrogen peroxide, decarbonation, and lime stabilization.
Solids generated from the above-mentioned processes are dewatered onsite
using two plate-and-frame presses. They are then hauled off-site to be
beneficially reused for land applications such as composting, construction, and
soil blending.
Water Reclamation. The ECLWRF has separate Waste Discharge
Requirements and Water Recycling Requirements that govern the use of tertiary
and advanced treated r

[Page 95]
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Reverse osmosis brine waste produced at the ECLWRF is discharged through
Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States.
Discharge Point 001 corresponds to the Hyperion WRP 5-mile outfall, identified
as Discharge Point 002 in the Hyperion WRP NPDES Order No. R4-2023-0033.
Before reaching Discharge Point 001, the untreated brine waste from the reverse
osmosis treatment process is discharged to the Hyperion WRP discharge pipe
downstream of the gravity valve, before the pump station discharge. Under
specific conditions specified in section 3 of the Hyperion WRP Order No. R4-
2023-0033, effluent from Hyperion WRP may be diverted to the 1-mile outfall.
For the brine from ECLWRF, there is only infrastructure in place for brine to be
conveyed to the 5-mile outfall. The City

===PLANNED CHANGES===

