[Page 109]
1. Southern Regional Tertiary Treatment Plant (SRTTP)
The SRTTP headworks consists of the coarse bar screens, influent pump station wet-
well, flow meter, fine drum screens, grit collectors, drain pump station to receive the
SRTTP return flows, and (if necessary, to neutralize phosphorous) alum feed system. As
an added design enhancement, if the influent pump station should go down for any
reason, flow will automatically be diverted to the Lemon Grove Impoundment Basins for
containment to prevent a spill.
The effluent from the grit collectors gravity-flows into secondary treatment (sequencing
batch reactors, SBR). The SBRs operate in four different sequences or steps which are
fill, react/compressed air, settle, and decant. A methanol feed system is available to
provide supplemental carbon to the SBRs through a dedicated line at each SBR.
The SRTTP’s tertiary treatment process includes three flow equalization basins (total
storage capacity of one million gallons), filter feed pumps, disk filters, sodium
hypochlorite generation system, disinfection contact basins, and recycled water pumps
and metering facilities. The Discharger sends the disinfected tertiary-treated wastewater
into the MCBCP’s recycled water distribution system for landscape irrigation under the
Master Recycling Permit Order No. R9-2018-00231. The MCBCP has four designated
reuse sites: 11 Area Sport Activity Field – Mission hydrologic subarea (HSA) 903.10,
Horse Pasture – M

[Page 110]
2. Advanced Water Treatment Plant at Haybarn Canyon (AWT)
The treatment systems for the AWT consists of liquid granulated activated carbon
(LGAC), which is currently non-operational; cartridge filters/reverse osmosis (RO), which
treats a portion of the groundwater to achieve a total dissolved solids concentration of
less than 350 milligram per liter (mg/L); and corrosion control (CCT) chemical injection
systems.
The brine pump station at the AWT sends the RO concentrate (waste brine) from the RO
trains to the OOOPS through a 16-inch diameter land outfall that runs along Vandegrift
Boulevard for approximately

===PLANNED CHANGES===

