[Page 64]
Up to 8 of the 16 filters can be used to produce Title 22 unrestricted-use non-
potable recycled water. The Discharger backwashes the filters to clean the
media. Each filter is backwashed approximately once every 24 hours. Filter
backwash water is sent to a backwash equalization basin for storage,
followed by flocculation and sedimentation. The treated backwash water is
pumped to chlorine contact tanks for disinfection prior to discharge to San
Francisco Bay. The settled solids from the backwash water are pumped back
to primary treatment.
2.1.3.5. Disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite and ammonia are metered into the filter
effluent at the head of four serpentine chlorine contact channels to produce a
solution of chloramines for disinfection. As the effluent leaves the contact
channels, its chlorine residual is measured, and an appropriate amount of
sodium bisulfite is added to neutralize the hypochlorite. The portion of the
effluent diverted for recycled water use is not neutralized with sodium
bisulfite.
2.1.3.6. Outfall Channel. Following dechlorination, the fully treated effluent flows by
gravity under Los Esteros Road and daylights through two effluent discharge
pipes into an approximately half mile long effluent channel. The channel
provides additional stabilization of the treated effluent, backup aeration if low
dissolved oxygen levels are detected, and a backup dechlorination system in
case upstream meters indicate there is remaining residual chlorine. The final
effluent flows over a weir at the downstream end of the outfall channel where
final measurements for chlorine, pH, and dissolved oxygen are taken before
discharge to Artesian Slough, Coyote Creek, and South San Francisco Bay.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from primary and secondary
clarification operations is processed using Temperature Phased Anaerobic
Digestion (TPAD) with thermophilic and mesophilic anaerobic digesters that are
operated in series. The process consists of primary sludge screening, dissolved
air flotation (DAF) thickening of primary and secondary sludges, and TPAD.
Digested sludge then undergoes either lagoon stabilization and dewatering
using open air drying beds or mechanical dewatering using centrifuges (once
the new biosolids dewatering facility is complete). Dewatered biosolids are used
as alternative daily cover at a landfill, land applied as a soil amendment, or
processed further into a compost or fertilizer.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater from within the treatment plant’s
boundaries is directed to the plant headworks; therefore, permit coverage for
stormwater discharges is not required.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger provides a dry-season average of
approximately 16 MGD of treated wastewater for non-potable reuse in San
Jose, Santa Clara, and Milpitas through the South Bay Water Recycling
Program. Uses include irrigation of golf courses, parks and playgrounds, farms,
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-6
[Page

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to complete the following projects during this permit term.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability.
2.5.1. Digester Upgrade. This project will renew the mesophilic digester tanks and
the mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation and control equipment
associated with them, as well as replacing the existing floating covers with fixed
covers. In addition to the mesophilic digester upgrades, the project will
construct a new fats, oil and grease receiving facility, including storage tanks
and connections to existing facilities.
2.5.2. Digested Sludge Dewatering Facility. This project will build a new digested
sludge dewatering facility, including a new building, centrifuges, conveyors,
truck bays, and polymer storage and dosing equipment is underway. Ancillary
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-9
[Page 68]
City of San José and City of Santa Clara Order R2-2025-0027
San José-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility NPDES Permit CA0037842
facilities include digested sludge pump stations and pipelines from digesters to
a storage tank, digested sludge pump station and pipeline from the storage tank
to the dewatering building, and a centrate return pump station and pipeline. The
Sludge Dewatering Facility will eventually replace the lagoon and solar drying
biosolids processing.
2.6. Sea Level Rise
The treatment plant is located within the 100-year coastal floodplain with a Base
Flood Elevation of 12-ft NAVD88 surrounding the main facilities and 11-ft NAVD88
within the treatment facilities located within the boundary of Los Esteros Road and
Zanker Road.
The Discharger developed a model to assess the vulnerability of various areas
and treatment secti