[Page 1]
2014-0153-DWQ-R5241
The CAHFS Laboratory will provide diagnostic analysis for the dairy, cattle, and poultry
industries in the Central Valley, and will consist of an office building and laboratory building,
each with a separate septic tank and leach field disposal system. However, there will be an
overflow pipe to connect the two systems in the event of a pump failure, to provide
redundancy.
The Domestic septic system will collect domestic waste from the office building including
the restrooms and breakroom/kitchen, while the Laboratory septic system will collect
domestic waste from the restrooms and breakroom within the laboratory building as well
as sinks and drains from the various laboratories, necropsy rooms, and crematory.
Both the Domestic and Laboratory septic systems will be equipped with a 4,500-gallon
septic tank and leach field each with an effective area of approximately 3,000 square feet.
Flows to the Domestic and Laboratory septic systems are estimated at 2,386 gallons per
day (gpd) and 3,483 gpd, respectively, for a total combined flow of about 6,000 gpd.
The Laboratory septic system has the potential to collect wastes other than just domestic
wastewater including blood and some laboratory chemicals. Samples were collected at a
similar laboratory both before and after a necropsy examination to compare with typical
domestic wastewater. Based on the results, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and
nitrogen concentrations in the laboratory wastewater appear to be similar to what would be
expected from a typical domestic wastewater.
The Laboratory septic system will have an effluent filter to prevent solids from discharging
to the leach field and will be equipped with an Emergency Detention System (EDS)
consisting of a 4,000-gallon holding tank to capture any wastes including hazardous waste,
if necessary, before it enters the septic system for further treatment (i.e., neutralization,
disinfection, etc.) or off-site disposal. All laboratory wastes including potentially hazardous
wastes will be handled in accordance with the UC Davis Chemical Hygiene Plan, Policies
and Procedures for Hazardous Chemical Use, Storage, Transportation, and Disposal.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge, and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of

===PLANNED CHANGES===

