[Page 72]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
The Discharger owns and operates a municipal wastewater treatment facility which treats
wastewater originating in service areas of the Carmel Area Wastewater District, servicing
approximately 11,000, and the Pebble Beach Community Services District, servicing
approximately 4,500. The Carmel Area Wastewater District collection system is composed
of approximately 83 miles of gravity sewers ranging in size from 6-inches to 27-inches in
diameter together with nearly 5 miles of force mains and seven pump stations. The
Pebble Beach Community Services District owns and maintains 74 miles of sewer
collection and interceptor lines and eight lift stations. The collection systems of Carmel
and Pebble Beach are regulated by the State Water Board Order No. 2006-003-DWQ, the
Statewide General WDRs for Sanitary Sewer Systems.
Treatment components include influent flow monitoring, bar screens, barminutors, an
aerated grit tank, primary settling basins, four secondary aeration basins, and secondary
clarifiers. Secondary treated wastewater is chlorinated and dechlorinated and is either
diverted to tertiary treatment or is metered prior to discharge.
Waste activated sludge is thickened by dissolved air floatation and blended with primary
solids before anaerobic digestion. Digested sludge is dewatered by belt filter press and
hauled offsite for disposal at the Monterey Regional Waste Management District Landfill.
The tertiary treatment system provides reclaimed wastewater for irrigation of seven local
golf courses, one equestrian center, one private school, and some smaller landscaped
areas. Tertiary treatment was upgraded to microfiltration and reverse osmosis (MF/RO) in
the fall of 2008. Recycled water production and use is regulated by Water Reclamation
Requirements Order Nos. 93-72 and 94-04, respectively.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 73]
CARMEL AREA WASTEWATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2014-0012
NPDES NO. CA0047996
Treated secondary effluent is filtered using a submerged microfiltration system which
produces filtrate under vacuum conditions by a filtration pump. The system contains three
cells with a total filtrate capacity of 1.9 MGD. The microfiltration system serves as a
pretreatment to reverse osmosis; a portion of the microfiltration flow is not treated by
reverse osmosis but instead blended with reverse osmosis permeate. Reverse osmosis
treatment consists of three independent, 2-stage reverse osmosis treatment trains. Each
treatment train has a dedicated high pressure feed pump.
Finished water is then conveyed to the Tertiary Facility for chlorination. The Tertiary
Facilities include a flow equalization basin, four chlorine contact basins, a Lamella
Thickener, and a reclamation wet well and conveyance pumps. The reclamation pumps
convey the water to a storage facility at the Pebble Beach reservoir for the recycled water
users.
Reverse osmosis reject water is chlorinated and dechlorinated before it is sent to the
effluent station for ocean discharge. MR/RO waste is equalized and pumped from the
MF/RO system to the Tertiary Facilities and eventually returned to the plant headworks.
Discharges to Carmel Bay consist of dechlorinated secondary treated wastewater, RO
concentrate, or combinations thereof depending on seasonal demand for recycled water.
Treated wastewater is discharged to Carmel Bay, an Area of Special Biological
Significance, within the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary pursuant to State Water
Board Resolution No. 84-78, which grants an exception to the prohibition established by
the California Ocean Plan

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
An update of the Carmel Area Wastewater District’s Long Term Capital Plan for the next
15 years was identified and completed in March 2013. In June 2013 the District signed
a contract with Kennedy/Jenks Consulting Engineers to begin the first of three Five Year
Plans. The schedule is to go out to bid in 2014 and begin construction in 2015. The
following projects are planned:
• New portable backup RAS pumping system
• Thickener replacement
• Digester Firm Capacity Improvements – a new digester
• #1 Water Improvements – a new #1 water pump station
• #3 Water Improvements – a new #3 water hydropneumatic tank, strainer, and
control system
• Dewatering Improvements – install new screw press and backup system
• Standby power reliability improvements
• Standby Blower replacement
• Hypochlorite and SBS system improvements
• Stormwater pumps station to control on-site stormwater
• Septage Receiving Station
• Miscellaneous Yard piping rehabilitation and replacement
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-11
[Page 80]
CARMEL AREA WASTEWATER DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2014-0012
NPDES NO. CA0047996
The Discharger had been evaluating seasonal RO reject disposal alternatives to
augment the Carmel River Lagoon habitat in lieu of discharging through the ocean
outfall. The grant issued by Fish and Wildlife ceased under a Stop Work Order issued
by the Department on May 2, 2013. The initial results indicated that additional
treatment would be necessary beyond the MFRO process and that the cost of such
treatment may be prohibitive for a relatively small amount of water.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND