[Page 9]
3. The sludge layer is within 8 inches of the outlet device.
If a septic tank or vault is pumped during the year, the pumping report shall be
submitted with the annual report. All pumping reports shall be submitted with the next
regularly scheduled monitoring report. At a minimum, the record shall include the date,
nature of service, service company name, and service company license number.
POND SYSTEM MONITORING
Influent samples shall be taken from a location that provides representative samples of
the wastewater and flow rate. At a minimum, influent monitoring shall include the
monitoring specified in Table 2 below. Influent flow shall be measured/estimated prior to
discharge to the effluent retention ponds.
Table 2 - Pond Influent Monitoring Requirements
Sampling Reporting
Parameter Units Sample Type
Frequency Frequency
Metered/Estimated
Flow gpd Continuous Quarterly
(see 1 below)
BOD mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
EC µmhos/cm Grab Monthly Quarterly
Total Nitrogen (as N) mg/L Grab Quarterly Quarterly
1 Flow may be metered or estimated based on potable water supply meter reading
or other approved method.
All wastewater ponds shall be monitored and observed as specified in Table 3 below.
Monitoring shall be conducted for all parameters listed in Table 3 for each pond that
contained wastewater during the month/quarter.
Table 3 - Wastewater Pond Observation Monitoring Requirements
Sample Sampling Reporting
Parameter Units Type Frequency Frequency
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measurement Monthly Quarterly
Odors --- Observation Monthly Quarterly
Berm Condition --- Observation Monthly Quarterly
[Page 10]
National Chavez Center - - 4 - - 13 March 2020
Cesar Chavez National Monument Facility
MRP 2014-0153-DWQ-R5321
Sample Sampling Reporting
Parameter Units Type Frequency Frequency
DO (see 1 below) mg/L Grab Monthly Quarterly
1 DO shall be measured between 8:00 am and 10:00 am and shall be taken
opposite the pond inlet at a depth of approximately one foot. Should the DO be
below 1.0 mg/L during a weekly sampling event, the Discharger shall take all
reasonable steps to correct the problem and commence daily DO monitoring in
the affected ponds until the problem has been resolved.
SLUDGE/BIOSOLIDS DISPOSAL MONITORING
The Discharger shall report the handling and disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings, grit,
sludge, biosolids, etc.) generated at the wastewater system. Records shall include the
name/contact information for the hauling company, the type and amount of waste
transported, the date removed from the wastewater system, the disposal facility name
and address, and copies of analytical data required by the entity accepting the waste.
These records shall be submitted as part of the annua

===PLANNED CHANGES===

