[Page 1]
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The OWTS is owned and operated by the Discharger. The OWTS will replace an existing OWTS~
which is deteriorating, with an activated sludge plant, manufactured by P. J. Hannah. The OWTS is
sized for 25,000 gpd, but will be operated at flows not to exceed 15,000 gpd in order to incorporate
denitrification.
Based on County records, the R WD reports that percolation rates determined during initial OTWS
construction ranged from less than 1 to 2 minutes per inch. The RWD states that during the construction
of the OWTS, a significant amount of fill materials ranging from clay loam to sandy loam was placed
within the leachfield area. The R WD indicates that a 12-foot-deep test pit was excavated in 2005 to
determine that the existing leachfield lines -vyere installed 3 feet below ground surface (bgs), an
intermittent sand lens exists 5-6 feet bgs, and groundwater was not encountered in the test pit. The
R WD indicates that area groundwater is between 40 - 50 feet below grom1d surface (bgs), according to
the Lines ofE qual Elevation of Water in Wel/s·in Unconfined Aquifer, published by Department of ·
Water Resources (DWR) in Spring of 2

[Page 2]
5. Effluent discharged to the leachfield shall not exceed the following limits:·
Units Monthly Avernge Daily Maximum
BOD mg/L 20 40
TSS mg/L 20 40
Total Nitrogen mg/L I 0
Total Coliform Organism MPN1/100 mL 23 240
Most probable number
6 .. As a means for detennining compliance with General Order Requirement B.3. the Discharger
shall include in each annual report (due l5 January) a copy df a Jog docun;i.enting t~e quantity
and method of disposal of all solids (e.g., screenings and sludge) removed from the OWTS.
during the previous calendar year. .
7. All technical reports required herein that involve evaluation, or other work requiring
interpretation and proper appUcation of engineering or geologic sciences, s~all be prepared by or
under the direction of persons registered to practice in California pursuant Jo California Business .
and Professions Code, sections 6735,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

