[Page 73]
Water Pollution Control Facility can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 18.5 MGD. In 2021, the average
daily dry weather influent flow was 10.0 MGD. The treatment process
consists of comminution, grit removal, primary sedimentation, flow
equalization, trickling filtration, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and chlorine disinfection. The plant also has 240 acres of out-of-
service oxidation ponds that can be used for emergency storage (e.g., during
peak wet weather).
2.1.3.2. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. The City of San
Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant can provide secondary treatment for
an average daily dry weather design flow of 7.6 MGD. In 2021, the average
daily dry weather influent flow was 4.3 MGD. The treatment process consists
of screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, flow equalization, trickling
filtration, activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and chlorine
disinfection. The plant also has five acres of out-of-service oxidation ponds
that can be used for emergency storage.
2.1.3.3. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control
Plant. The Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution
Control Plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry
weather design flow of 20.0 MGD. In 2021, the average daily dry weather
influent flow was 11.2 MGD. The treatment process consists of screening,
grit removal, primary sedimentation, modified Ludzack-Ettigner nitrification
and denitrification, secondary clarification, and sodium hypochlorite
disinfection.
2.1.3.4. Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant. The
Raymond A. Boege Alvarado Wastewater Treatment Plant can provide
secondary treatment for an average daily dry weather design flow of
33.0 MGD. In 2021, the average daily dry weather influent flow was
22.0 MGD. The treatment process consists of screening, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, and
chlorine disinfection. During this Order term, the Discharger plans to
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 74]
East Bay Dischargers Authority (EBDA) Order R2-2022-0023
EBDA Common Outfall NPDES PermitCA0037869
implement wastewater treatment plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet
section 2.6.,

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes).
Historically, Union Sanitary District discharged up to 5.0 MGD of treated
wastewater from this plant to Hayward Marsh through the EBDA pipeline but
Union Sanitary District intends to formally cease this discharge during this
Order term.
2.1.3.5. Marina Dechlorination Facility. The Marina Dechlorination Facility
dechlorinates treated and disinfected effluent from the EBDA and LAVWMA
member agencies using sodium bisulfite.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management
2.1.4.1. City of Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility. Sludge at the City of
Hayward Water Pollution Control Facility is anaerobically digested,
dewatered in dewatering beds, and air dried for up to two years. The City
hauls dried biosolids to an authorized disposal site for use as alternative daily
cover.
2.1.4.2. City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant. Sludge at the City of
San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant is anaerobically digested,
dewatered using a belt filter press, and air dried. The City hauls dried
biosolids to an authorized disposal site or applies the biosolids to land as
Class A Exceptional Quality biosolids or Class B biosolids (as defined in
40 C.F.R. part 503) depending on available bed space.
2.1.4.3. Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water Pollution Control
Plant. Sludge at the Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Water
Pollu