[Page 2]
I. FACILITY INFORMATION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of El Dorado Hills and
serves a population of approximately 50,000. The design average dry weather flow
capacity of the Facility is 4.0 MGD.
The tertiary treatment system at the Facility consists of the following:
· headworks with fine screening and grit removal;
· central odor control system and biofilters;
· two raw wastewater equalization tanks;
· two primary clarifiers;
· two activated sludge aeration basins with nitrification/denitrification;
· two biological nutrient removal basins;
· two secondary clarifiers;
· two dissolved air flotation (DAF) units for algae removal;
· six mixed-media (sand and anthracite) tertiary filters;
· UV disinfection system;
· two lined drain ponds; and
· 61.9 million gallon unlined storage reservoir.
The central odor control system collects air (negative pressure/vacuum) from various
treatment units and the air is treated at the biofilters to prevent nuisance odors. The
concrete-lined drain ponds are used for stormwater, filter backwash water, and
filtrate from the belt filter presses. The drain pond liners consist of 6 inches of
concrete on the pond bottoms, underlain with 12 inches of gravel base, and 4 inches
of concrete on the side walls. The concrete liner is reinforced with rebar throughout.
Wastewater in the drain ponds is routed to the primary clarifiers. The unlined storage
reservoir is used to store secondary treated wastewater prior to the tertiary treatment
process. Secondary treated wastewater from the storage reservoir is sent to the
DAFs to remove algae, and polymer and coagulant are added prior to tertiary
filtration and UV disinfection. The storage of secondary treated wastewater is
necessary in order to meet the demand of recycled water use. The Discharger
produces about 1.2 billion gallons of recycled water annually for landscape irrigation.
In addition, the reservoir stabilizes flows to the tertiary filtration and UV disinfection
system which is dependent on stable and consistent flow rates for effectiveness and
efficiency. Tertiary treated wastewater may be recycled in the Discharger’s
reclaimed water distribution system or discharged from Discharge Point 001 to
Carson Creek. Use of the Facility’s ponds and storage reservoir are part of the
treatment process as described above, and thus operation is covered by the
provisions in the Municipal General Order, as specified in this NOA R5-2023-0025-
003. Monitoring of any discharges from the storage reservoir is covered under
Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) Order R5-2024-0804. The specifications
and use of reclaimed water are covered under a separate Master Reclamation
Permit (Order 5-01-146) issue

[Page 2]
003. Monitoring of any discharges from the storage reservoir is covered under
Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) Order R5-2024-0804. The specifications
and use of reclaimed water are covered under a separate Master Reclamation
Permit (Order 5-01-146) issued to the Discharger in accordance with California Code
of Regulations, Title 22 and the California Water Code.
Solids handling facilities include:
· waste activated sludge DAF;
· two anaerobic sludge digesters; and
- 3 -
[Page 3]
El Dorado Irrigation District 23 September 2024
El Dorado Hills Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2023-0025-003
· belt filter press.
The solids handling facilities result in the production of Class B biosolids. Biosolids
from the belt filter press are collected and hauled offsite by a separate commercial
entity and applied to agricultural lands or to solid waste landfills.
II. RECEIVING WATER BENEFICIAL USES
The Facility discharges seasonally from Discharge Point 001 to Carson Creek, an
ephemeral stream, which flows to Deer Creek, a tributary to the Cosumnes River
within the San Joaquin River watershed. According to the Water Quality Contr

===PLANNED CHANGES===

