[Page 2]
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the areas including Cameron Park
and Shingle Springs, serving a population of approximately 20,000. The design
average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 3.6 MGD. The current average
dry weather flow for the Facility is 0.64 MGD. The Facility provides full nitrification
and denitrification for nitrogen removal and uses tertiary filtration followed by
ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
The tertiary treatment system at the Facility consists of the following:
· influent headworks with manual bar screen, automated fine screen, and primary
clarification for grit removal (grit removal is not always attainable during high wet
weather flows);
· one unlined emergency storage basin;
· two raw influent wastewater equalization tanks;
· aeration basins for biological nutrient removal;
· waste activated sludge and secondary clarification;
· polymer feed system;
· granular and cloth tertiary filtration; and
· UV disinfection system.
Wastewater routed to the emergency storage basin, or the equalization tanks is
returned to the headworks. Use of the Facility’s emergency storage basin is part of
the treatment process as described above, and thus is covered by the provisions in
the Municipal General Order, as specified in this NOA R5-2023-0025-004. The
emergency storage basin is rarely necessary and was only used once for less than
seven days during the last six years. The Facility utilizes catch basins and drains
located throughout the plant to collect the Facility’s stormwater. All stormwater at the
Facility is routed to the plant drain structure, a large wet well, and pumped to the
primary clarifier for processing in the treatment facilities. Tertiary treated wastewater
may be recycled in the Discharger’s reclaimed water distribution system or
discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Deer Creek. The specifications and use of
reclaimed water are covered under a separate Master Reclamation Permit (Order 5-
01-146) issued to the Discharger in accordance with California Code of Regulations,
Title 22, and the California Water Code.
The solids handling facilities include:
· gravity thickeners;
· aerobic sludge digesters;
· lime stabilization; and
· belt filter press.
- 3 -
[Page 3]
El Dorado Irrigation District 23 August 2024
Deer Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2023-0025-004
Biosolids from the belt filter press are collected and hauled offsite by a separate
commercial entity and applied to agricultural lands or to solid waste landfills.
II. RECEIVING WATER BENEFICIAL USES
The Facility discharges from Discharge Point 001 to Deer Creek, a tributary to the
Cosumnes River within the San Joaquin River Basin. According to the Water Quality
Control Plan for the Sacramento River and San Joaquin River Basins (Ba

===PLANNED CHANGES===

