[Page 66]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area. The Facility serves about 26,600 people in the City of Sonoma,
unincorporated areas of Glen Ellen, Boyes Hot Springs, El Verano, and Agua
Caliente. It has an average dry weather design capacity of 3.0 MGD and a wet
weather hydraulic capacity of 16.0 MGD. The average dry weather influent flow
during the previous permit term was about 2.1 MGD.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. Attachment C shows the flow diagram for the Facility.
The treatment process includes perforated plate screens, grit removal, aerated
equalization basins, aeration basins, secondary clarification, tertiary treatment
via cloth media disk filtration, chlorine gas disinfection, and dechlorination via
sulfur dioxide or sodium bisulfite. When influent flows exceed 16 MGD, flows
are routed to the Facility’s four equalization basins for temporary storage for
later treatment.
2.1.3. Sanitary Sewer Systems. The Discharger owns and operates its sanitary
sewer system, which includes 160 miles of sanitary sewer pipe and two pump
stations (including the length of lower laterals). The collection system is covered
under the State Water Board Order WQ 2022-0103-DWQ (Statewide Waste
Discharge Requirements General Order for Sani

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. The Discharger plans to complete the following projects
during this permit term. These changes are mentioned here for informational
purposes only and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that
they pertain to ensuring Facility reliability. Nevertheless, this Order authorizes
these projects. Even so, the Discharger may need to obtain other necessary
permits or permit modifications to implement these changes.
The Discharger is currently constructing its influent/effluent pumping and piping
upgrade project, with planned completion in Fall 2027. The project includes the
replacement and upgrade of seven influent and effluent pumps, and their
associated piping and equipment. The Discharger also plans to complete plans for
future dechlorination and disinfection practices due to its sulfur dioxide gas
(dechlorinating chemical) supplier stopping its distribution to the Discharger during
the previous order term. The Discharger implemented temporary solutions during
the previous order term to prevent the discharge of chlorinated effluent to receiving
waters (see Fact Sheet section 6.3.5.6).
2.6 Sea Level Rise. The Discharger determined that its treatment pl