[Page 2]
Domestic wastewater will be screened via a rotary drum 3-millimeter opening screen,
pumped to two settling tanks totaling 26,000 gallons , equalized in six 10,000 -gallon tanks
with a combined capacity of 60,000 gallons, and treated through a moving bed bioreactor
process followed by polishing through a horizontal flow subsurface treatment wetland .
Screenings will be washed, compacted, bagged, and collected in a roll -off bi n and hauled
offsite. The moving bed bioreactor aerobic biological treatment system consists of a
pre-anoxic zone, blower -aerated biochemical oxygen demand and nitrification zones, and
clarification. A recycle pump will return a portion of the nitrified ef fluent to the beginning of
the treatment process or pre- anoxic zone for denitrification. Waste activated sludge solids
from the clarified zone are pumped to sludge holding tanks and hauled off -site. The five
horizontal flow subsurface wetland treatment cel ls are a self -contained, lined, engineered
system with no proposed discharges to the environment. The wetland cell s have a synthetic
liner to prevent infiltration or exfiltration to protect groundwater and surface water. The cells
will be planted with vegetation species typically found in local wetlands. The wetland
treatment cell s effluent pump station and downstream processes at the central utility plant
have been designed to manage the modeled peak rain event.

Following the treatment wetland, the ef fluent is pumped back to the central utility plant for
final treatment via a Schreiber’s Fuzzy Filter compressible media filter, Aquionics In- line
400+ UV disinfection system UV disinfection unit with two reactors , granular activated
carbon adsorption filters for the removal of trace organics , and ozonation primarily for color
removal and incidental disinfection. The media filter is sized to process the peak flowrate
with a surface loading rate of 40 gallons per minute per square foot (gpm/ft
2). If needed, t he
treatment process could use a coagulant to achieve turbidity targets . The flow path will be in
series through two UV units, each rated for supplying a dose of 100 mJ/cm2. An onsite UV
disinfection system spot -check bioassay test is not required at this time since the UV
disinfection system will be operated to provide a double UV dose (200 mJ/cm2). The ozone
system includes a dissolved ozone sensor, an oxidation reduction potential (ORP) monitor,
[Page 3]
Google Bay View Campus July 27, 202 2
Notice of Applicability for Order WQ 2014- 0153 -DWQ
Page 4 of 17 and an ozone destruct system with carulite- 200 media to catalyze any excess ozone back to
oxygen.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

