[Page 36]
NALP
[Page 37]
NOITCES
NALP
[Page 38]
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
2.5.1 Pretreatment Facilities
Raw wastewater will be pumped from the existing influent lift station to a new plant pretreatment facility.
The new pretreatment facility will consist of a grit chamber followed by fine screens. Figure 2-3 shows
the plan layout for the pretreatment facilities.
2.5.2 Membrane Bioreactor
The MBR combines a suspended growth biological reactor for activated sludge treatment with submerged
membranes for solids separation. The membranes are contained within the biological tanks and replace
the clarifiers used in conventional activated sludge plants. The MBR process consists of an anoxic zone
for denitrification, an aeration zone for soluble BOD reduction and nitrification, a post-anoxic zone for
further denitrification and a membrane zone for solids separation. The process is designed with an SRT of
20 days, which should be adequate for nitrification/denitrification at the assumed minimum temperature
of 16°C.
Each biological train is rated at 1.25 mgd. Based on the temperature monitoring it may be possible to re-
rate the process trains up to a capacity of 1.5 mgd each. Expansion can be accomplished by adding
biological trains and membrane trains. The design flow of 5.0 mgd meets the projected growth to the
current planning horizon. Additional space for membranes will be provided in each membrane tank. It is
important to note that the initial design has allowed for only enough membranes to handle 4.0 mgd ADF
conditions. The City of Hollister determined that the full 5.0 mgd membrane capacity will not be
required during the first five years of the Project (2008-2013). A decision to purchase the additional
membranes at a later date was made as a cost savings measure.
2.5.2.1 MBR Influent Distribution
Screened wastewater will flow by gravity from the fine screens to the MBR influent distribution structure
that will be used to distribute the wastewater to the MBR process trains. This structure will be covered
with checkered plates for odor control. Air from the MBR influent distribution structure will be treated in
the odor control biofilter.
The flow will be evenly distributed to each process train by providing a downward acting weir gate for
each process train. The weir gates will be manually adjusted to provide a proper flow split to each train.
The process trains could be isolated by raising or closing the weir gate. The influent will flow through
pipes to each individual process train. The MBR influent distribution structure wil

===PLANNED CHANGES===

