[Page 6]
2. Wastewater System Operation Summary
King City domestic wastewater treatment plant (Wastewater System) is a Class II
wastewater system. King City must staff a Class II chief plant operator for proper
operation of the Wastewater System. The current chief plant operator is Miles Farmer
with Cypress Water Services, Grade 3, License Number 40014. The operation and
maintenance of the wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal for both the domestic
and industrial facilities is overseen by Cypress Water Services. Cypress Water Services
is the primary point of contact for operations and reporting.
King City also owns and operates an industrial wastewater treatment and disposal
facility adjacent to the domestic wastewater treatment plant. The industrial facility is
permitted to treat 2.4 million gallons per day from May 1 to November 30 and 1 million
gallons per day from December 1 to April 30, but currently operates at a much lower
flow. This General Permit only covers the treatment and disposal of domestic
wastewater, King City has a sperate permit (currently Order 91-84) for the industrial
system.
The Wastewater System is capable of treating an average daily flow of 1,200,000
gallons per day (gpd) and a peak hour flow of 3,000,000 gpd to a secondary treatment
level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment
capabilities shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Influent flow enters a wet well prior to flowing through a
Parshall flume that meters influent flows. Metered influent
flow enters a grit removal channel and rags and debris are
grinded and removed via a Muffin Monster grinder. Flow
Headworks/Preliminary can also be diverted to a bar screen post grit channel
Treatment should an issue with the Muffin Monster grinder arise.
Screened wastewater is then pumped via a triplex lift
station to a distribution box where it is distributed
simultaneously to one of five aerated treatment ponds.
Headworks treatment capacity (gpd): 3,000,000
- 2 -
[Page 7]
King City April 12, 2024
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Plant
The first stage of secondary treatment consists of five
clay-lined, aerated faculative ponds (Ponds 1A, 1B, 1, 2,
and 3) that operate in parallel.
These ponds are fed directly from the primary treatment lift
station, typically in parallel, however the ponds can be
configured to produce some degree of series flow if
Secondary Treatment -
desired.
Aerated Ponds
Ponds 1A and 1B: 12.2 acres, 39.8 MG, 300 HP aerator
power, 63 day detention time.
Pond 1: 5.5 acres pond with volume of 5.4-9 million
gallons (MG).
Pond 2: 5.8 acres pond with volume of 5.4-9.5 MG.
Pond 3: 6 acres pond with volume of 5.9-9.8 MG.
The second stage of secondary treatment occurs in two
unlined polishing ponds (Pond 4 and Pond 5) plumbed in
series. Effluent from Pond 5 flows to the effluent pump
station where it is pumped to the disposal spray fields.
Since these ponds are unlined they are acting as
Secondary Treatment –
treatment and disposal ponds.6
Polishing Ponds
Ponds 4 and 5: 20.9 acres total for both ponds, 31.5 MG,
26-day detention time.
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 1,200,000
Treated wastewater is disposed at the domestic spray field
labeled 8 (see Figure 2). The field consists of six spray
disposal areas. King City alternates between the six
disposal areas in the field to allow the previous disposal
Wastewater Disposal areas to rest.
Method
Spray field size is 65 acres of total domestic disposal
surface area with a design application rate of 0.8 inches
per day.
Disposal Capacity (gpd): 1,400,000
Biosolids/Sludge
Solids are stored within the ponds and removed by special
Production and
dredging events on an as needed basis.
Handling
6 Current effluent sampling location ES-1 is after Ponds 4 and 5. When King City re-designs the facility for needed
upgrades, Central Coast Water Board staff will re-evaluate where disposal is occurring and ensure effluent samples
are being taken prior to disposal. If Ponds 4 and 5 continue to be combined treatment and disposal ponds, ES-1
and the point of compliance will be moved prior to Pond 4 to capture water quality at disposal.
- 3 -
[Page 8]
King City April 12, 2024
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Plant
A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3,
which were reported in King City quarterly monitoring reports. The Central Coast Water
Board used reported effluent water quality data to establish the effluent and
groundwater limitations in se

===PLANNED CHANGES===

