[Page 17]
Scott J. Hatton 2 6 February 2020
Lake Isabella WWTF
the WWTF to Aqua Operations, Inc. The WWTF was constructed in 1984 and consists
of a sanitary sewer collection system, two lift stations, a treatment plant and a
leachfield. The treatment plant consists of flow equalization, flow control, two-stage
trickling filtration, clarification, effluent pumping, and sludge storage.
The WWTF provides sewerage service to 54 active mobile home connections,
19 inactive connections, an 86-unit adult living facility, and a shopping center. The
shopping center contains a grocery market, a drug store, variety stores, two restaurants,
a California Department of Motor Vehicles office, and a gasoline station. The average
daily flow in 2018 and th

[Page 18]
Total Nitrogen (as N) mg/L 31 38
(25 – 43) (33 – 41)
The September/November 2019 influent BOD results still showed high variability but the
dataset average (286 mg/L) was significantly lower than the March/Aril 2019 dataset
average of 518 mg/L. Furthermore, the effluent BOD results decreased significantly
(88 mg/L compared to 42 mg/L). Table 4 of the General Order establishes a technology
performance effluent limitation of 90 mg/L for trickling filter systems. However, as
discussed in further detail below, the Tulare Lake Bain Plan specifies more stringent
limitations for domestic discharges to land.
The RWD does not address setback distances to nearby streams, wells, or
impoundments. However, the areas served by the Lake Isabella WWTF meet the
applicable setback requirements for treatment systems and leachfield listed in Table 3
of the General Order. The nearest surface water is the Lake Isabella Hot Springs, which
is located about 850 feet north of the wastewater treatment system and about 1,200 feet
west of the leachfield. The nearest domestic well is located about 300 feet upgradient of
the leachfield disposal system. Water is supplied to the adjacent mobile home park and
shopping center by the Erskine Creek Water District, whose wells are about 1.5 miles
south of the Lake Isabella WWTF. The auxiliary dam for Lake Isabella is about 1.5 miles
north of the WWTF.
Groundwater Data
The Discharger monitors a three well groundwater monitoring network. Groundwater
monitoring wells MW-1 and MW-2 were i

[Page 19]
Nitrate (as N) results from MW-1 and MW-2 average 19 mg/L and 15 mg/L,
respectively, and all of the samples since June 2018 exceed the primary maximum
contaminant level of 10 mg/L. MW-3 is reported to have been installed within the
leachfield, and the results seem to verify this as the EC and chloride results from MW-3
are similar to EC and chloride results in the March/April effluent sampling events.
Assuming MW-3 is within the leachfield, the general lower concentrations could possible
indicate that the percolated effluent nitrogen (primarily in the organic/ammonia form
based on available data) has not yet nitrified. Therefore, future groundwater monitoring
should include total nitrogen and ammonia.
The lower values/results of EC and chloride in samples collected from MW-1 and MW-2
appear to indicate rapid blending and attenuation with the underlying groundwater. The
average EC value in MW-2 (506 umhos/cm) is half of the average EC result in samples
collected from MW-3. However, the nitrate as nitrogen re

===PLANNED CHANGES===

