[Page 5]
1. OWNERSHIP AND WASTEWATER SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Ownership and facility information submitted by Central California Conference of
Seventh-day Adventists to the Central Coast Water Board is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Owner and Wastewater Facility Information
Facility Name Monterey Bay Academy
Facility Address 783 San Andreas Rd.
La Selva Beach, CA 95076
Parcel Numbers 046-371-01
Latitude/Longitude 36. 54' 18.99" N/121. 50' 20.96" W
Owner of Facility Central California Conference of Seventh-day Adventists
Legally Responsible Daniel R Serns
Official of Owner Chief Executive Officer
Owner Mailing P.O. Box 770
Address Clovis, CA 93613
Facility Billing 783 San Andreas Rd.
Address La Selva Beach, CA 95076
Permitted Design Maximum average monthly 49,900
Flow, Max Average
Monthly (gallons per
day, gpd)
Baseline Flow 35,000
(average annual flow)
in gpd
Operators Mason Weidner, Grade II
Waste type and Domestic wastewater from standard connections from
Service Area faculty housing and school campus buildings.
Threat to Water 2
Quality
Complexity B
For Internal Use
Fee Code 58
Primary Place Type Wastewater Treatment Facility
Facility Type Municipal/Domestic
Facility Waste Type Domestic Wastewater
[Page 6]
Monterey Bay Academy March 20, 2024
Attachment 1
Regulatory measure Enrollee - WDR
Type
Reclamation Included No
EPA Approved No
Pretreatment
Program
Per the Report of Waste Discharge (filed on July 5, 1983), the oxidation/percolation
ponds are located on slightly sloping (5-12 percent) topography consisting of sandy
soils to a depth of 55 feet. Depth to groundwater during the dry season is approximately
52 feet, as measured from onsite borings. Groundwater generally flows in a south-west
direction.
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION SUMMARY
The treatment system consists of a series of eight unlined oxidation/percolation ponds
covering approximately 2.5 acres throughout the Monterey Bay Academy facility. The
oxidation/percolation ponds are located on slightly sloped topography consisting of
sandy soils. Two primary wastewater transport lines, each serving a separate sector of
the campus, convey wastewater to the lift station prior to entering pond #1. Ponds are
designed to be self-leveling and the flow from pond #1 to pond #8 occurs in sequential
order. In recent years, only pond #1 and pond #2 have actively been utilized, while pond
#3 – pond #8 are used to temporarly store effluent when conducting maintance on pond
#1 and pond #2. Daily average flow into the ponds is between 35,000 and 40,000
gallons per day and the system has the capacity to hold 9.5 million gallons of
wastewater. A summary of the system is included in Table 2 below. A facility site map
and dispersal system layout are shown in Attachment 2.
Table 2. Permitted Pond Treatment, Disposal Technologies, and Capacity
Influent Maximum Daily Flow 70,000 gallons per day
Permitted Design
Maximum average monthly flow 49,900 gallons per day
Flows
A grease trap is located in the school kitchen and is
Grease Trap
maintained by staff monthly.
Headworks/Preliminary Grinder pumps are used in lift stations to grind wastewater
Treatment prior to Pond 1.
Treatment consists of eight, unlined oxidation/percolation
ponds in series. The total volume of the eight ponds is
Treatment/Disposal approximately 9.5 million gallons. The ponds also
percolate wastewater and are the only permitted disposal
location.
Biosolids/Sludge
The ponds are periodically drained and cleaned to remove
Production and
settled solids.
Handling
- 2 -
[Page 7]
Monterey Bay Academy March 20, 2024
Attachment 1
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Central California Conference of Seventh-day Adventists must operate the facility in
accordance with the General Permit1 and this notice of applicability.2 Historically,
wastewater from the treatment and disposal ponds had been occassionally reclaimed
on approximaltey 35 acres of nearby fodder crops, but is no longer being land applied.
Wastewater disposal outside of the ponds shown in Figure 3 is no longer permitted.
Central California Conference of Seventh-day Adventists must request approval from
the Central Coast Water Board prior to discharging to areas other than the specified
series of oxidation/percolation ponds. If the the Central California Conference of
Seventh-day Adventists wishes to pursue applying recycled water in the future, they
must submit a title 22 engineering report to the State Water Resources Control Board’s
Division of Drinking Water and the Central Coast Water Board for review and approval.
Central California Conference of Seventh-day Adventists must operate the pond system
to comply with the effluent limits below.
A. Effluent limits
Central California Conference of Seventh-day Adventists must comply with the site-
specific limits listed in Table 3.
Table 3. Wastewater Limits for Pond System
Constituent Unit Limit Point of Compliance1
49,900 (monthly average2)
Influent
Flow gpd 70,000 (maximum daily)
(IS-1)
Five-Day
Biochemical
mg/L 90 (daily maximum) Effluent (ES-1)
Oxygen Demand
(BOD )
5
%
Influent
Total N 50% Removal Effluent (ES-1)
versus
Effluent
1 Refer to monitoring and reporting program for sampling locations
2 Average flow is the sum of the daily flow that occurs each

===PLANNED CHANGES===

