[Page 4]
Residential flows from the 2-bedroom single-family residence and 1-bedroom guest
cottage are estimated at 120 GPD/bedroom, per Napa County standard, assuming low-
flow fixtures.
(3 bedrooms * 120 gpd) = 360 gpd peak flow from residential units.
The future peak design flow for the WWTP is 5,310 gpd, based on the sum of restaurant
wastewater and domestic wastewater above.
Mustards Grill wastewater data from 2007 to 2023 show restaurant primary treated
effluent characteristics of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 1,200 milligrams per
liter (mg/L), total suspended solids (TSS) of 400 mg/L, and total nitrogen (TN) of 60
mg/L. Typical residential primary treated effluent characteristics provided by Orenco
include BOD of 150 mg/L, TSS of 50 mg/L, and TN of 50 mg/L. Based on the design
flows of 4,950 gpd for the restaurant and 360 gpd for the primary residence and guest
house, the combined primary treated influent characteristics are estimated to be BOD of
1,129 mg/L, TSS of 376 mg/L, and TN of 59 mg/L.
Although limited to a maximum discharge of 4,000 gpd, the overall capacity of the
proposed improvements to the wastewater treatment system is sufficient to
accommodate the planned future increase in flow to 5,310 gpd. The improvements will
occur during three phases as described in this Notice’s next section.
A schematic of the Facility’s wastewater treatment process is provided as Notice
Page 5 of 18
[Page 5]
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
Attachment C. The treatment train is summarized below.
1.5. Summary of New Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Process
1.5.1. Primary Treatment
Upgrades to septic tanks and grease traps occurred in 2023 during Phase 1. The Phase
1 upgrades to eliminate groundwater inflow and infiltration (I/I) in the collection system
included abandoning and replacing the existing concrete grease interceptors, septic
tanks, and lift station adjacent to the restaurant with new fiberglass tanks, including a
7,000-gallon Xerxes grease interceptor and a 15,000-gallon Xerxes combined septic
and pump tank (5,000-gallon septic and 10,000-gallon pump tanks). The risers of the
restaurant sludge tanks and residential septic tanks were also replaced and resealed to
further reduce I/I.
The new grease interceptor tank and combined septic/pump tank from the Phase 1
upgrade will remain in place and continue to serve as primary treatment for the
restaurant. The septic tanks and pump tanks for the existing residence (1,200-gallon
septic tank and 500-gallon pump tank) and guesthouse (1,500-gallon septic tank and
810-gallon pump tank) will be inspected and remain in place and continue to serve as
primary treatment for the residences.
Sanitary wastewater flows by gravity to the 15,000-gallon combined septic/pump tank.
Kitchen wastewater flows by gravity first to the 7,000-gallon grease interceptor, then to
the 15,000-gallon combined septic/pump tank where the kitchen wastewater combines
with the sanitary wastewater.
Primary-treated effluent from the combined septic/pump tank and residential and guest
house septic tanks is pumped to the existing treatment tank for secondary treatment,
described in section 1.5.2.
The dosing compartment of the 15,000-gallon combination septic/pump tank is
equipped with duplex submersible pumps (Goulds Model 3887 BHF No. WS1012BHF)
as well as floats for pump controls and high water level alarm. The floats are connected
to a SCADA system with an alert system and pump controls.
1.5.2. Secondary Treatment
The existing treatment train will be upgraded during Phase 2. The existing above ground
MBR structure will be retained and repurposed. The MBR membranes, pumps, and
diffusers will be removed and the MBR tank (treatment tank) will remain in place. Two
new Orenco AdvanTex® AX100 treatment units (AX100 units), designed for blackwater
and restaurant waste, will be installed above-ground. The combined septic tank effluent
from the site will be pumped to the system, through an existing two-millimeter perforated
screen. The screened influent will first enter the 7,000-gallon pre-anoxic chamber of the
treatment tank. In addition to the septic tank effluent, a mixed liquor recirculation stream
from the AX100 treatment units will also enter the anoxic zone for denitrification. Effluent
from the pre-anoxic chamber of the treatment tank will flow over an existing weir inside
Page 6 of 18
[Page 6]
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
the treatment tank into the 13,000-gallon aeration chamber for biological oxygen
demand (BOD) removal and nitrification.
The existing pump that transfers aeration chamber effluent to the membrane chamber
will be removed. The existing 3,000-gallon membrane chamber of the treatment tank will
remain as a primary post-aeration settling chamber. Effluent from the aeration chamber
will be conveyed to this post-aeration settling chamber (the prior membrane chamber)
via an existing overflow connection. Effluent from the settling chamber will be conveyed
to the new Orenco AX100 system via an existing overflow connection to the sludge
tanks.
The existing blower serving the aeration chamber will be replaced with a modern, high
efficiency, low noise blower. The existing diffusers will be inspected and replaced if
necessary. The aeration process will reduce BOD of the mixed liquor to less than 220
milligrams per liter (mg/L). This is the maximum mass loading for final treatment in two
Orenco AX100 units, per specifications provided by Orenco.
The two new AX100 units will be installed above-ground, adjacent to the four existing
5,000-gallon sludge tanks. Two of the sludge tanks will be disconnected from the
existing system, pumped, and tested for watertightness. One sludge tank will be
repurposed as an additional settling tank for the secondary-treated effluent from the
settling chamber of the treatment tank. This will allow suspended solids to settle out
before gravity flowing to the second sludge tank, which will be repurposed as a
recirculation tank for the AX100 units. A portion of the water pumped from the
recirculation tank will be diverted back to the pre-anoxic chamber for advanced
denitrification. The remainder will cycle through the AX100 units, which will provide
additional BOD removal and denitrification. Distribution between the pre-anoxic
chamber and the AX100 units will be controlled by balancing valves and monitored by
flow meters. This will allow the operator to adjust the recirculation rate as needed.
Recirculation will be controlled by two 50 gallon per minute, 0.75 Horsepower pumps.
Recirculation through the AX100 units will reduce BOD and total suspended solids
(TSS) in the polished effluent to less than 30 mg/L, suitable levels for subsurface drip
dispersal. The upgraded system is expected to reduce total nitrogen (TN) by a minimum
of 50 percent.
Effluent from the AX100 units will pass through a recirculating splitter valve in the
recirculation tank and be conveyed to the existing 5,000-gallon pump tank for timed
dosing to the existing GeoFlow subsurface drip dispersal field. Pump tank effluent will
pass through a new Sanitron® ultraviolet (UV) system for disinfection prior to dispersal
to the existing field.
The two remaining 5,000-gallon sludge tanks will remain as emergency overflow tanks
for the upgraded treatment system. The system has an alarm float that indicates when
the tank is half full.
Page 7 of 18
[Page 7]
Mustards Grill July 10, 2024
Enrollment Letter, Order WQ 2014-0153-DWQ
1.5.3. Disinfection System
Disinfection will be provided by a new 280-watt Sanitron® S5000C Ultraviolet (UV) unit.
The Sanitron UV unit will be installed in-line between the dosing tank outlet and the
Geoflow field, providing continuous disinfection for all flows to the field. The Sanitron UV
unit is recommended for flows up to 30 gallons per minute.
1.5.4. Subsurface Dispersal System
Treated wastewater is discharged to land in a dedicated land dispersal area located on
the facility site, behind, southwest of the restaurant building and associated adjacent
vehicle parking area. The dispersal area is about 40,000 square feet (sf). The area wa

[Page 7]
1.5.4. Subsurface Dispersal System
Treated wastewater is discharged to land in a dedicated land dispersal area located on
the facility site, behind, southwest of the restaurant building and associated adjacent
vehicle parking area. The dispersal area is about 40,000 square feet (sf). The area was
graded in 2004 to create an elevated constant-shallow-slope area for the dispersal
system. Following initial grading, a bed of uncompacted imported loam soil of 18 to 36
inches deep was placed over native soil. The dispersal system pipe network was laid
out within the imported soil. The area was seeded and mulched after construction. The
finished area is a grass-vegetated field of constant shallow slope (0.5 percent), sloping
from the southwest to the northeast, with associated steeper sloping edges. The effluent
dispersal system is comprised of a subsurface pressurized pipe network of proprietary
manufactured tubing with built-in ‘drip’ emitters (GeoflowTM Subsurface Dripline),
installed within the dispersal area.
The subsurface drip dispersal system will be upgraded during Phase 3. Phase 3
upgrades include replacing the Geoflow subsurface drip tubing and adding soil to the
existing dispersal field to increase separation to the seasonally high groundwater table.
Two complete Geoflow dispersal fields will be built, one to serve as the primary
dispersal field and one to serve as the reserve area (Reserve Area 1). Dispersal lines
will be installed with two-foot

===PLANNED CHANGES===

