[Page 5]
headworks must not exceed 100,000 gpd as a monthly average. The
- 2 -
[Page 6]
Blacklake Water Reclamation Facility May 31, 2023
Attachment 1
Central Coast Water Board understand that the district will need to install influent flow
meters or demonstrate how influent flow does not exceed a monthly average of 100,000
gpd.
Sludge is dewatered onsite with a portable centrifuge and the biosolids are hauled
offsite to Liberty Composting, Inc., in Lost Hills, CA. The facility has not dewatered and
removed biosolids since 2019 when 338 tons of sludge were removed from Aerated
Pond #2 and 93 tons of sludge were removed from Aerated Pond #3.
Table 2. Permitted Pond Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
Permitted Design Influent Monthly Average Flow - 100,000 gallons per day
Flows Influent Maximum Daily Flow - 200,000 gallons per day
Two parallel comminutors grind large solids. If one or both
Headworks/Preliminary comminutors becomes clogged or is out of services,
Treatment wastewater flows over a slide gate into a bypass channel
containing a manual bar screen.
Aerated ponds provide both primary and secondary
Treatment treatment. Treatment consists of three paritially-mixed
areation ponds with splasher- type aerators.
Two chlorine contact basins designed for a minimum of 20
Disinfection minutes contact time at 200,000 gpd, to provide redudancy
during peak flows
Effluent is pumped to a lined effluent storage pond and
used as irrigation for a golf course.
Effluent Storage
Off spec water is recirculated back into the treatment
ponds.
Effluent is used to irrigate approximently 45 acres of
Disposal
Blacklake Golf Resort.
Biosolids/Sludge Sludge is dewatered onsite with a portable centrifuge and
Production and the biosolids are hauled offsite to Liberty Composting, Inc.,
Handling in Lost Hills, CA.
3. WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
Nipomo CSD must operate the facility in accordance with the General Permit4 and this
notice of applicability.5 Nipomo CSD must comply with the site-specific limits listed in
Table 3.
4 General Permit sections B.2, B.4, and B.6 are not applicable for this facility.
5 General Permit section B.1.b. state

===PLANNED CHANGES===

