[Page 6]
EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The WWTF is located at 16565 Prospect Place, Pioneer, in Amador County. The community is
situated within Section 21, Township 7N, Range 13E, MDB&M with assessor’s parcel numbers
023-070-024 and 023-070-075. Currently there are 56 units with a population of 78. There are
no commercial uses in the community and the wastewater system does not accept wastewater
from outside of the community.
The community is served by municipal water supplied by the Amador Water Agency (AWA).
The source water from Tiger Creek Reservoir is treated by Buckhorn Water Treatment Plant.
Based on a sampling event conducted on 28 May 2020 by the AWA, the treated water supply
has a TDS concentration of 27 mg/L.
The WWTF consists of a conventional collection system, two 5,000-gallon steel septic tanks,
and three unlined evaporation/percolation ponds. During routine operation, collected
wastewater is directed into one of the two septic tanks for primary settling, clarification and
[Page 7]
treatment. Septic tank effluent is then directed into one or more of the evaporation/percolation
ponds for disposal.
The contents of each of the septic tanks are pumped out every year when the tank is
seasonally rotated out of service. Evacuations are conducted by a licensed septic tank
inspection contractor. Evacuated materials (solids and liquids) are delivered to a licensed
treatment and disposal facility.
There are no monitoring wells onsite and depth to groundwater beneath the by the community
has not been determined directly. However, the RWD states that monitoring well data have
been obtained from Mace Meadows Community Leachfield System, which is located
approximately 3,500 feet north of the Pioneer Creek Mobile Home Community at a similar
elevation. The first semi-annual 2017 monitoring report for the Mace Meadows Community
Leachfield System indicates that the ground water depth was approximately 88 feet below
ground surface. The RWD states that the depth to ground water beneath the Pioneer Creek
Mobile Home Community may be roughly 80-90 feet below ground surface.
Wastewater generation rates are not currently measured at the community. Because MRP 88-
109 does not contain monitoring requirements for effluent quality, there ar

===PLANNED CHANGES===

