[Page 6]
2. WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATION AND TREATMENT SUMMARY
Greenfield Wastewater Treatment Plant (Wastewater System) is a Class II wastewater
treatment facility. Greenfield must staff a Grade II chief plant operator for proper
operation of the Wastewater System. The current chief plant operator is Jason Molinari,
Grade 4, License Number 28290.
The Wastewater System was originally designed to treat a peak flow of 2,000,000
gallons per day to a secondary treatment level and had an estimated average disposal
capacity of 1,500,000 gpd. Currently, the Wastewater System is not consistently
achieving secondary treatment level standards, and the disposal capacity has
decreased. Therefore, the current permitted monthly average flow is 1,200,000 gpd.
Greenfield may propose to increase permitted flow once it demonstrates that disposal
capacity at the ponds and RIBs is sufficient to discharge all wastewater entering the
system without pond freeboard violations.
The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment
capabilities shown in Table 2. The Central Coast Water Board is permitting the
operation and disposal of the system as described below, Greenfield must not change
operation or disposal without Central Coast Water Board approval. Per General Permit
Section III.7., discharge to areas other than the designated percolation ponds and rapid
infiltration beds shown in Figures 2 and 3, and described in Table 2, is prohibited.
Table 2. Permitted Treatment & Disposal Technologies and Capacity
Mechanical screening device with compactor/washer,
Parshall Flume/ultrasonic level read for influent flow
Headworks/Preliminary
measurement, flow splitter box to split flows to Clarifiers 1,
Treatment
2 and 3.
Headworks capacity: 5,000,000 gpd (peak flow)
Three circular clarifiers operated in parallel. Two with 0.5
mgd capacity and another with 1.0 mgd capacity
Primary Treatment
Primary treatment capacity 2,000,000 gpd based on
original design and loading.
Three aerated lagoons: Pond 1, Pond 2, and Pond 3,
equipped with total of 90 HP floating aerators (18-5HP
Secondary Treatment Aerators). Pond 1 and 2 operated in parallel and Pond 3
in series. Secondary treatment capacity: 2,000,000 gpd
based on original design and loading.
- 2 -
[Page 7]
Greenfield Attachment 1 October 4, 2024
Two percolation ponds: Pond 4 and Pond 5 (4.2 acres total
surface area). Operated in parallel to allow emptying and
sludge removal when needed.
Land Application by Controlled Flood: 18-acres total area
by controlled flood methods in currently 11 bermed rapid
infiltration basins (RIBs, also called percolation fields).
Wastewater Disposal
Effluent is thinly spread, beds are rotated, dryed and
(Two Methods)
disked between applications. E

===PLANNED CHANGES===

