[Page 1]
5. The Facility treats domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater from the service area
described above. The City of Fresno’s sewer collection system consists of approximately
24,151 manholes, 15 lift stations, 11.5 miles of force mains, and 1,601 miles of gravity
sewers (excluding abandoned/out of service segments and private facilities). In addition,
the City of Fresno’s sewer collection system receives domestic wastewater from the City
of Clovis at, primarily, four connection points.
6. The Facility previously consisted of two separate wastewater treatment plants, referred to
as Plant 1 and Plant 2. Plant 2, a 6 mgd trickling filter plant, was demolished in 2008.
Plant 1, an activated sludge treatment plant, is still in service but was expanded in 2009.
Prior to the 2009 expansion, the activated sludge treatment plant had two treatment trains
and had a design treatment capacity of 88 mgd.
7. The Operator completed an organics upgrade project in 2009 to increase the Facility’s
treatment capacity. The purpose of the upgrades was to provide additional treatment
facilities to meet an increase in organic loadings at the Facility. The upgrades included the
addition of a new primary effluent flow split structure, a secondary treatment train (Train
C), and one new anaerobic digester.
8. The Operator, in an effort to increase the reuse of treated wastewater, completed the
construction of Phase I of the tertiary treatment system at the Facility in 2017. The tertiary
treatment system is planned in three phases. The current design flow for the tertiary
treatment system is 5.0 mgd but can be expanded in two subsequent phases to 15 mgd
(Phase II) and ultimately 30 mgd (Phase III).
9. The Facility now includes preliminary, primary, secondary, and tertiary units with
disinfection. Preliminary and primary treatment consists of bar screens, grit removal tanks,
and six primary clarifiers. Secondary treatment consists of three treatment trains (Trains
A, B, and C) that operate as three separate activated sludge systems. Each treatment
train contains aeration basins and secondary clarifiers. Train A includes three
complete-mix square aeration basins and four secondary clarifiers. Train B includes four
plug-flow rectangular aeration basins and eight secondary clarifiers. Train C includes two
plug-flow aeration basins and four secondary clarifiers. The tertiary treatment system
receives primary-treated effluent diverted immediately upstream of Train C’s aeration
basins. The tertiary treatment system includes a fine screen, two pre-aeration basins, four
membrane bioreactor tanks, and four in-vessel ultraviolet light disinfection system trains.
The Facility also includes an Anaerobically Digestible Material receiving station and a
station to receive material from the Discharger’s sewer cleaning vehicles. A facility layout
is included in Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made a part of this Order by
reference.
10. Included within the Facility property are 1,720 acres of disposal ponds (Discharge
Point 001). The 1,720 acres of disposal ponds consist of 83 ponds that collectively
provide a total storage capacity of 10,890 acre-feet. Order 5-01-254 limited the discharge
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2018-0080 3
CITIES OF FRESNO AND CLOVIS
REGIONAL WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
of undisinfected secondary-treated wastewater to 80 mgd as an annual monthly average
and 88 mgd as a maximum monthly average.
11. In addition to disposing undisinfected secondary-treated wastewater to the onsite disposal
ponds, the Discharger also conveys undisinfected secondary-treated wastewater to
farmers for restricted irrigation of nonfood crops on agricultural land on the Facility
property and on surrounding properties (Discharge Point 002). The onsite recycling of
undisinfected secondary-treated wastewater is conducted by local farmers under lease
agreements on approximately 748 acres (hereinafter referred to a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

