[Page 16]
Scott J. Hatton - - 2 - - 19 August 2019
Camp Mather OWTS
Capacity Evaluation Technical Report for the Facility, prepared by Stantec. The report
was resubmitted on 9 May 2019, signed and stamped by Richard E. Stowell (RCE
38812).
The Facility is located at 35250 Mather Road, Groveland in Tuolumne County (Section
2, Township 1 South, Range 19 East MDB&M), approximately 12 miles east of
Groveland and 10 miles northeast of Highway 120. This memorandum provides a
summary of Central Valley Water Board’s review of the ROWD, the supplemental
information provided, and the applicability of this discharge to be covered under the
General Order.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
The Facility is located on City and County of San Francisco property, as a charter city.
Tuolumne County and the City and County of San Francisco have mutually agreed the
Discharger would apply for a permit to receive coverage by the State of California,
avoiding potential conflicts between the City and County of San Francisco and
Tuolumne County zoning and planning codes.
Camp Mather consists of 97 cabins, tent camps, a dining hall and a recreational area
that are primarily utilized seasonally by about 500 campers and 50 staff members from
June through August. Music festivals were occasionally held at the camp during
Memorial and Labor Day weekends, resulting in a larger number of visitors to the camp.
However, according to the Discharger, these festivals no longer occur. During the winter
seasons, the camp is only occupied by the caretaker and sometimes maintenance and
construction personnel during the spring and fall.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Facility consists of two separate onsite wastewater treatment systems (OWTS), a
small septic system with a leach field that is utilized year round and a larger septic tank
attached to five leach fields operated during the summer months. The original OWTS for
Camp Mather was designed in 1927, approved by M.M. O'Shaunessy, a City Engineer
who planned the Hetch Hetchy Water Supply and created Camp Mather. The plans
indicate the OWTS was originally designed to accommodate approximately 500 people,
assuming wastewater flow of 30 gallons per capita per day or 15,000 gallons per day.
Currently, the Camp Mather OWTS has two operational leach fields (Leach Field #1 and
Leach Field #2). The 2019 Leach Field Capacity Evaluation Technical Report
recommends that a maximum month hydraulic limit of 20,000 gallons per day (gpd) be
established for the Facility until the Discharger demonstrates the system can support a
higher flow. According to the 2010 ROWD, the Facility in the past experienced flows up
to at least 40,000 gpd as the result of Camp Mather hosting festivals. In 2009, just
following a festiva

[Page 17]
Camp Mather OWTS
mentioned, festivals are reportedly no longer held at Camp Mather. According to the
technical report, the Discharger monitored Facility wastewater flows in 2018, and the
maximum monthly average flow for 2018 was 18,369 gpd.
The septic tanks are pumped out annually to restore capacity for the following camping
season. Originally, four serpentine leach fields were constructed in series for the OWTS
utilized during the summer. A new leach field (Leach Field #5) was added to the OWTS
in 1988. As previously mentioned, Leach Fields #1 and #5 are currently operational.
Leach Fields #2, 3, and 4 need to be renovated or decommissioned and disconnected.
The wastewater generated at the camp is from public toilets, washrooms, a kitchen and
a cafeteria. Limited water quality data is available for the Facility since the Discharger
currently does not have a monitoring and reporting program. The ROWD characterizes
the Facility’s influent domestic wastewater as follows:
• pH around

[Page 19]
General Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring;
• Solids Disposal; and
• Subsurface Disposal Monitoring
1 The 2010 ROWD by Kennedy/Jenks Consultants recommends that three
groundwater monitoring wells, one upgradient of the septic tanks and two
downgradient of the leach fields be constructed. In addition, the October 2018
memorandum from Richard Stowell with Stantec provides recommendations on
where monitoring wells should be located.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

