[Page 49]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The Facility is located at 2600 Grant Avenue in
San Lorenzo. It provides secondary treatment and disinfection of domestic and
commercial wastewater from the communities of Castro Valley (serviced by
Castro Valley Sanitary District), San Lorenzo, Ashland, Cherryland, and
Fairview, and portions of the cities of San Leandro and Hayward. The estimated
service area population is about 192,000.
Attachment B provides maps of the area around the plant.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides advanced-secondary treatment for
an average dry weather design flow of 20.0 MGD. The wastewater treatment
process consists of screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated
sludge modified Ludzack-Ettigner nitrification and denitrification, secondary
clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection. Prior to any wet weather or
maintenance exercise discharge, the Discharger will also dechlorinate the
wastewater.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 50]
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Order R2-2024-0006
Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge NPDES Permit CA0037559
Effluent ammonia concentrations may be higher during lower temperature
winter conditions because nitrification (conversion of ammonia to nitrate) is
mediated by specific bacteria that convert ammonia to nitrate less efficiently at
lower temperatures. Effluent ammonia concentrations may also be higher
during peak wet weather events when the nitrifying bacteria are more
susceptible to hydraulic washout. During such events, the plant may not provide
adequate resident time for nitrification and denitrification (i.e., the conversion of
nitrate to nitrogen gas, which is released to the atmosphere). The Discharger
uses available basins to store solids containing the necessary microorganisms
and reduce the potential for washout.
2.1.3. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters. This Order covers intermittent
discharges of secondary-treated, disinfected, and dechlorinated municipal
wastewater to the Discharger’s wet weather outfall. These discharges occur in
Lower San Francisco Bay (Discharge Point 001). During the dry season, the
Discharger provides advanced-secondary treatment and discharges effluent
through the EBDA deepwater outfall.
The wet weather outfall is a shallow-water outfall without a diffuser. The discharge
location is approximately 920 feet offshore

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger is not planning significant changes for this
Order term.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 53]
Oro Loma and Castro Valley Sanitary Districts Order R2-2024-0006
Intermittent Wet Weather Discharge NPDES Permit CA0037559
2.6. Sea Level Rise. Based on the National Research Council 2012 Projections – Sea-
level Rise for the Coasts of California, Oregon, and Washington: Past, Present,
and Future, the Discharger has begun planning for 12-inches of sea-level rise by
2050 and 36-inches by 2100. The Discharger is currently protected by a perimeter
levee, and critical structures are built at or above an elevation of 8 feet. The
Discharger has been and plans to continue working with the Hayward Area
Shoreline Protection Agency (HASPA) to plan sea-level rise mitigation strategies,
such as a horizontal levee. HASPA membership consists of the City of Hayward,
Hayward Area Recreation and Park District, and East Bay Regional Park District.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code
article 4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with § 1