[Page 84]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal facility, which provides service to the community of San Simeon and the
Hearst San Simeon National Historic Monument Visitor Center. The Facility
receives domestic and commercial wastewater and currently serves a population
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 85]
SAN SIMEON ORDER NO. R3-2022-0003
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047961
of approximately 462 people. The Facility receives intermittent6 flows of reverse
osmosis concentrate from the San Simeon Community Services District drinking
water treatment facility.
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal system. The collection system is composed of approximately 1.6 miles of
predominately 6-inch diameter pipe. The existing treatment plant has been in
operation since 1961 and is considered a secondary treatment facility. The
treatment system consists of a comminutor, a 90,000-gallon equalization basin,
four activated sludge tanks, four clarifiers, a chlorine contact chamber, and
dechlorination. Wastewater is discharged via an 800-foot ocean outfall at
Discharge Point 001 to the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States. The
minimum initial dilution ratio of seawater to effluent is 115:1.
A tertiary treatment package unit was constructed in 2012 to provide recycled
water for irrigation use within the service area.
Biosolids from the clarifiers are pumped to a spare aeration basin which is used as
an aerobic digester. When solids concentration exceeds 2 percent, the contents
are pumped to another sludge storage tank. Approximately once per month, 6,000
gallons of the concentrated biosolids are trucked to Liberty Composting, Lost Hills,
California for disposal.
This Order provides the option for the Discharger to develop a hauled saline waste
program that will allow it to accept and discharge concentrates from water filtration
systems such as reverse osmosis or ion exchange treatment systems via
Discharge Point 001. . Prior to discharging hauled saline waste through the ocean
outfall, the Discharger must submit a hauled saline waste disposal study to the
Executive Officer for their approval.7 This Order authorizes such discharges and
implements development of a hauled saline waste study and institutes monitoring
and reporting of hauled saline waste wastes.
Historic

===PLANNED CHANGES===

