[Page 0]
WITH A LOW THREAT TO WATER, OROVILLE WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT CONSTRUCTION DEWATERING PROJECT, OROVILLE, BUTTE COUNTY
On 12 May 2025 Robert Barton of Myers & Sons Construction, LLC submitted a Notice
of Intent (NOI) on behalf of Sewerage Commission – Oroville Region to obtain coverage
under Water Quality Order 2003-0003-DWQ, Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Discharges to Land with a Low Threat to Water Quality (hereafter
General Order) for construction dewatering discharge for the above referenced project.
The submittal contains all information required to evaluate applicability of the General
Order. This letter serves as formal notice that the General Order is applicable to the
Oroville Wastewater Treatment Plant (Facility) and the dewatering of the construction
project as described below. You are hereby assigned the following General Order
enrollment number, 2003-0003-DWQ-0260 for the Oroville Wastewater Treatment Plant
(WWTP) Construction Dewatering Project (Project). Please include this number on all
correspondence related to this discharge.
You should familiarize yourself with the entire General Order and its attachments
enclosed with this letter. Your enrollment into this General Order shall continue until the
Central Valley Water Quality Control Board (Central Valley Water Board) receives an
official written request for termination.
PROJECT LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION
The Project is located at the Oroville WWTP, 2880 S. 5th St, Oroville, Butte County more
specifically near the current water clarifiers. Construction operations are to start in mid-
2025 and are expected to be completed in late 2026, though dewatering efforts are
expected to cease around December 2025. The project proposes the construction of an
additional secondary clarifier and also a mixed liquor distribution box. During the
construction and or installing of new improvements at the Facility, groundwater will likely
[Page 1]
Oroville WWTP Construction - 2 - 3 June 2025
Dewatering Project
2003-0003-DWQ-0260
be encountered and dewatering will be required to complete excavations and
installation of site improvements. The dewatering will be accomplished by installation of
a series of wells constructed as needed in the vicinity of excavations at the site. It is
proposed that thirteen (13) wells in total will be needed, nine (9) for the secondary
clarifier and four (4) for the mixed liquor distribution box. These wells will pump ground
water to depress the water table in the construction areas to allow for excavation and or
installation of proposed improvements.
The site dewatering will occur sporadically with concurrent construction phases of the
project. Water removed from construction sites will be pumped from wells and either
discharged into the WWTP, if sufficient capacity is available or, it will be land applied to
areas to the south of the construction site onto and to remain on the Facilities property
with no runoff onto neighboring properties. The maximum daily dis

===PLANNED CHANGES===

