[Page 9]
Attachment 1
Preliminary treatment consists of a JWC Auger Monster
System Model No. AGD 1800-285 that grinds, screens,
washes, and transports inorganic solid to a bagged
disposal unit. The JWC Auger Monster's maximum
capacity to screen is 250 gallons per minute (gpm) with an
influent suspended solids concentration of 300 milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
Headworks/Preliminary At the headworks, there is a secondary channel parallel to
Treatment the main channel that is used for bypassing the preliminary
treatment system and inspecting and maintaining the
preliminary treatment equipment.
After major solids removal, the wastewater is directed
through a trapezoidal flume for continuous volumetric flow
measurement (flow range up to 600 gpm) and then
pumped through a Eutek TeaCup cyclonic separator grit
removal system with a design capacity of 200 gpm.
4
[Page 10]
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
Secondary treatment begins within two 43,000 gallon
extended aeration basins (AB1 and AB2) operated in
parallel. Aeromod ClarAtors clarifiers (Clarifier 1 and
Clarifier 2) are centered inside each of the two aeration
basins to perform primary clarification after aeration. Each
primary clarifier can treat a daily average of 14,280 gpd
and a maximum of 46,560 gpd. Effluent from both primary
clarifiers combine and flow to an Aeromod Split ClarAtor,
Model 16320 secondary clarifier (Clarifier 3) for further
treatment. The Split ClarAtor clarifier's average design
treatment capacity is 28,800 gpd and a maximum design
capacity of 92,800 gpd.
Wasted activated sludge from both primary clarifiers is
pumped to the digester. Return activated sludge is
captured out of the secondary clarifier and split to be
Secondary Treatment
reintroduced into each of the two aeration basins.
Post clarifier filtering consists of four RF-400-CW radial
filter units. The filters operate in parallel but only one is on
at anytime. The non-operating radial filter comes online
once the operating filter goes offline to initiate the
backwash cycle. Backwash is initiated automatically every
24 hrs or by head loss across the radial filter unit.
Backwash effluent is redirected back to the aeration
basins. The average design flow rate for each radial filter
is 25,000 gpd for a total possible filtering capacity of
100,000 gpd. The radial filter performance meets title 22
California Code of Regulations §60301.320 definition of
filtered wastewater, which is requirement of a disinfected
recycled water but the effluent is not disinfected and is not
used as recycled water.
Effluent wastewater is disposed in a leach field with a
100% replacement zone. The leach field has seven zones,
Disposal separated by isolation valves at the start of each zone.
The zones are rotated every 6 months, resulting in six
online zones and one offline zone.
5
[Page 11]
California State Parks Pfeiffer Big Sur WWTP MRP October 2, 2025
Attachment 1
Solids produced at the headworks are bagged for hauling
offsite by Monterey Regional Waste Management District
(831-384-5313) and disposal at the Marina Landfill in
Monterey County.
Biosolids/Sludge
Wasted activated sludge is pumped into the aerobic
Production and
digester with a storage capacity of 13 days at average
Handling
daily flow and four days at maximum daily flow. Digested
sludge is directed to either one of two sandbeds or through
a belt press for dewatering. Solids are collected and taken
offsite for final disposal by Waste Management at the
Marina Landfill in Monterey County.
Wastewater Effluent BOD and TSS < 30 mg/L
Design Goals1 Total Nitrogen < 20-50 mg/L
1 These are design goals and should be used to evaluate system performance.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS
California Department of Parks and Recreation must operate th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

