[Page 7]
Scott Hatton - 2 - 9 March 2018
Interstate 5 Travel Center OWTS
proposed system design was approved by Fresno County on 9 May 2017, but the
General Order contains Section B.1.g that requires that all wastewater disposal systems
with a design flow rate of 3,500 gpd to be approved by a licensed civil engineer. A
second revised technical report was prepared in August 2017 and submitted to the
Central Valley Water Board on 11 September 2017. Mr. Rafael Divina, California
Professional Civil Engineer No. 30011, stamped and signed the revised August 2017
technical report along with Mr. Flores of OST System Designs, Inc.
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
O.S.T System Designs, Inc., (OST) on behalf of Mr. Jay Steinbach (Owner and
Discharger) designed the new OWTS that serves the Travel Center. The Travel Center
operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year as a travel stop for autos, commercial trucks,
and buses. The Travel Center contains a main commercial building that houses a retail
convenience store, a restaurant, and a sandwich shop. Two fuel filling areas are
present to the south (trucks) and north (autos) of the main building. Water meter
readings for the Travel Center indicate an average water use of just less than
10,000 gallons per day (gpd), but that water use increases up to 15,000 gpd during
peak operating days such as weekends and holidays. The former onsite septic system
failed due to the tank and leachfield being undersized. The former OWTS consisted of
a 1,500-gallon capacity grease interceptor, an 8,000-gallon septic tank, and a failed
leachfield. The existing OWTS was removed and replaced (as discussed below), with
the exception of the grease interceptor, which was retained.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The former OWTS was replaced with two new septic tanks, a surge tank, and a new
leachfield. OST indicates the new system contains the following:
• An effluent filter and alarm system following the grease interceptor;
• Increased septic tank capacity with a 30,000-gallon primary tank, a
15,000-gallon secondary tank;
• Aeration of the secondary tank to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) and oil and grease content of the discharge;
• Installation of a 15,000-gallon surge tank with an Orenco Duplex pump system
to handle surges and peak flows that may occur during weekends and holidays;
and
• Automated timed pressure dosing of wastewater to the leachfield.
The effluent is discharged from the surge tank into a new 1,000-linear foot leachfield
with ten 100-foot laterals. Each leachfield lateral will have an inspection port for
monitoring wastewater depth in the leach trenches.
The anticipated average flow/discharge from the Travel Center to the septic system is
about 7,500 gpd with flows estimated up to 11,145 gpd during peak use periods
[Page 8]
Scott Hatton - 3 - 9 March 2018
Interstate 5 Travel Center OWTS
(weekends and holidays). In accordance with the requirements of the General Order,
discharges with flow rates less than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a nitrogen
effluent limitation.
In April 2016, OST excavated three test pits to depths of up to 15 feet below the ground
surface (bgs) in the area of the proposed leachfield. The soil in the three test pits was
described as light brown, moist, loose, Wasco Sandy Loam. There was no evidence of
groundwater encountered in the test pits.
OST also conducted four percolation tests in a benched trench excavated to 8.5 feet
bgs in the area of the proposed leachfield. Percolation rates ranged from 4.62 to 7.06
minutes per inch (MPI) and averaged 5.67 MPI. According to Table 5, Minimum Depth
to Groundwater and Minimum Soil Depth from the Bottom of Dispersal System of the
General Order, the minimum depth to groundwater requirement for percolation rates
between 5 and 30 MPI is 8 feet bgs. Groundwater was not encountered in the three
test pits excavated to 15 fee

===PLANNED CHANGES===

