[Page 63]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
500 Davidson Street in the City of Novato. It provides secondary treatment of
domestic and industrial wastewater for the City of Novato and adjacent
unincorporated Marin County and serves a population of approximately 60,000.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer System. The sanitary sewer system is comprised of
approximately 212 miles of gravity sewer pipes, 23 miles of associated force
mains, and 39 pump stations.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The treatment process consists of influent screening,
grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge secondary treatment
followed by secondary clarifiers, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. The plant can
provide secondary treatment for an average dry weather design flow of
7.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a peak wet weather capacity of 47 MGD.
Between September 2020 and March 2025, the plant treated a daily average of
5.0 MGD, with the highest reported average daily flow being 30 MGD.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with gravity thickeners and treats the thickened sludge with anaerobic digestion.
The digested solids are then pumped to sludge lagoons for further thickening
and eventually applied to a 14.4-acre dedicated land disposal site. The sludge
lagoons and dedicated land disposal site are both located east of the treatment
plant (see Attachment B).
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment; therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The Discharger produces up to 1.7 MGD of disinfected
tertiary recycled water that is regulated under State Water Resources Control
Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DDW. The disinfected tertiary recycled water is
sent to the North Marin Water District and used for landscape irrigation, car
washes, and dus

[Page 63]
188 million gallons of recycled water between 2020 and 2024.
Additionally, the Discharger has two reclamation storage ponds with a
combined storage capacity of 180 million gallons. The effluent from these ponds
meets California Code of Regulations, Title 22, section 60304(d), standards and
is regulated under Regional Water Board Order 92-065. Preceding or during the
dry months (typically from June 1 through August 31), the Discharger diverts
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 64]
Novato Sanitary District Order R2-2026-0002
Novato Sanitary District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037958
secondary-treated treated effluent to its storage ponds for subsequent pumping
to a wildlife pond and nearly 800 acres of pasturelands. The pasturelands are
comprised of Site 2 (161 acres), which the Discharger owns, and Sites 3
(234 acres) and 7 (409 acres), which Marin County leases to the Discharger.
The pastureland irrigation is regulated under Regional Water Board
Order 92-065.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters. Discharge Point 001 discharges treated
effluent to San Pablo Bay through a multiport diffuser located about 950 feet
offshore. The diffuser

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger plans to relocate its discharge location to
create and support new brackish marsh habitat as part of the State Coastal
Conservancy’s Bel Marin Keys Unit V wetland restoration project (see Fact Sheet
section 2.3). The new discharge location will provide secondary-treated effluent as
a freshwater source to a new marsh system on Bel Marin Keys Unit V property.
This project may not be completed during this Order term.
The Discharger plans to complete the following other projects during this Order
term:
· Complete the design and construction of a cogeneration project that will utilize
digester gas produced in the anaerobic digesters;
· Install a solar photovoltaic system, and
· Upgrade the UV disinfection system.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional Water Board
authorization. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement these changes.
2.6. Sea Level Rise. In 2017, the