[Page 62]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at 5019
Imhoff Place in Martinez. It provides secondary treatment of domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastewater for Danville, Lafayette, Martinez,
Moraga, Orinda, Pleasant Hill, San Ramon, Walnut Creek, Concord, Clayton,
and adjacent unincorporated areas. The Discharger also regulates 19
significant industrial users that discharge to the Facility through its pretreatment
program. The Facility serves a population of about 484,800. Attachment B
shows a map of the area around the Facility.
2.1.2 Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 1,500 miles of publicly-owned pipes that range from
6 to 102 inches in diameter. The Discharger owns and operates 15 pump
stations and operates two privately-owned pump stations in Orinda. This
collection system is part of the Facility covered by this Order. The City of
Concord owns and maintains the collection system within the Concord city limits
and maintains the collection system serving the City of Clayton. The portions of
the collection system owned or operated by the City of Concord are not covered
by this Order.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 53.8 million gallons per day (MGD).
From May 2020 through April 2021, the average daily influent flow was
34.2 MGD. The wastewater treatment process consists of screening, grit
removal, primary clarification, secondary biological treatment, secondary
clarification, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Attachment C shows a flow
process diagram for the Facility.
The Facility also has holding basins with a combined capacity of 168 million
gallons. The Discharger uses these holding basins to temporarily store peak
wet weather flows when primary-treated wastewater exceeds the secondary
treatment capacity. When flows subside, the Discharger routes stored
wastewater back to the headworks for full primary and secondary treatment.
2.1.4. Recycled Water. From 2017 through 2020, the Discharger annually diverted,
on average, approximately 5 percent of its total effluent, or 533 million gallons,
to its Recycling Plant. The Recycling Plant further treats the UV-disinfected
effluent with sand/anthracite filtration and sodium hypochlorite disinfection and
stores recycled water in a covered seven-million-gallon reservoir prior to
distribution. The Discharger uses about two-thirds of the recycled water
produced for washdown operations at the wastewater treatment plant and
distributes the remaining recycled water offsite, primarily for landscape
irrigation. Irrigation customers include schools, parks, corporation yards,
landscape medians, and com

===PLANNED CHANGES===

