[Page 49]
1. Wastewater Treatment.
The Discharger owns and operates a 420-acre steel finishing plant. The Facility finishes
purchased coils of hot-rolled steel but does not manufacture steel from raw materials. The
processes include pickling with hydrochloric and sulfuric acid, cold rolling, alkaline
cleaning, annealing, hot-dip galvanizing, and electrolytic tin and chromium plating.
Attachment C provides a schematic diagram of the Facility treatment processes. The
following treatment systems provide preliminary treatment in the main part of the Facility
prior to final treatment at the main treatment plant in the northeast corner of the Facility:
• The oil separation treats oily wastewater from cold rolling mills.
• The outgoing treatment system reduces chromium VI from the chromium recovery unit.
• The primary neutralization system neutralizes the pH of spent alkaline cleaning baths.
Partly treated wastewater from the above processes flows to the main treatment plant along
with other untreated waste streams (see Attachment C).The treatment plant also receives a
maximum of 5 million gallons per year of wastewater from impoundments and purge water
from monitoring wells.
Attachment C provides a diagram of the Facility’s main wastewater treatment plant. It
consists of a pump station (Lift Station No. 3), an oil/water separator, a mixer building to
adjust the pH with lime or caustic for metals precipitation, two clarifiers, and two
neutralization tanks for final pH adjustment (hydrochloric acid in the first stage and
hydrochloric acid or caustic in the second stage). Solids from the clarifier are dewatered with
a filter press and hauled to the Facility’s onsite landfill. The filtrate is returned to Lift Station
No. 3 for treatment. Treated wastewater is discharged to New York Slough at Discharge
Point No. 001.
F-5
[Page 50]
USS-POSCO Industries Order No. R2-2016-0043
Pittsburg Plant NPDES No. CA0005002
2. Stormwater Management
The treatment plant also receives most of the stormwater from the Facility’s developed areas
(e.g. parking lots, buildings, roadways, and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

