[Page 66]
Alameda County Flood Control & Water Conservation District stormwater
system to the plant. The project runs regularly during the dry season and
occasionally during dry periods of the wet season. Since its inception in 2017,
the URDP has diverted a total of 670 million gallons for treatment.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The wastewater treatment process consists of odor
control, screening, grit removal, primary clarification, high purity oxygen
activated sludge, secondary clarification, disinfection, and dechlorination.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
Attachment C provides a flow schematic.
During peak wet weather flows, the plant can accept up to 425 MGD of influent
by means of five 85 MGD influent pumps. Since the primary treatment design
capacity is 320 MGD, wet weather flows in excess of the primary treatment
capacity are stored onsite in an 11-million-gallon wet weather concrete storage
basin and returned to the plant influent when flows subside. Primary effluent
may also be diverted around biological treatment, disinfected, and “blended”
with disinfected biologically treated effluent. The “blended” wastewater is then
dechlorinated prior to being discharged to Central San Francisco Bay through a
deepwater outfall. This discharge occurs only after fully using the maximum
biological treatment capacity, which is 168 MGD under optimal conditions.
During wet weather, diverted primary effluent flow can be up to 30 percent of
the total effluent flow. From 2021 through 2024, the number of blending events
ranged from 2 to 10 per yea

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger plans, at a minimum, to rehabilitate the
secondary clarifiers, the oxygen production plant, and grit dewatering over the next
five years.
The Discharger is conducting a multi-year pilot study to optimize and possibly
modify its high purity oxygen activated sludge process to improve biological
nutrient removal. If the pilot is successful, the Discharger could implement
changes ranging from simple process updates to equipment upgrades and/or new
facilities for supplemental treatment. The Discharger will report on the status of
this effort annually, as required by Order R2-2024-0013, the Nutrients Watershed
Permit.
2.6 Sea Level Rise. To adapt to rising sea levels, the Discharger developed a sea
level ri