[Page 63]
3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Facility. The existing wastewater treatment plant was initially constructed in
1961 to provide primary treatment and was later upgraded to provide secondary
treatment and disinfection. The plant is now designed to provide secondary
treatment for an average of 2.0 million gallons per day (MGD). As indicated in
the study “Improving Process Reliability and Performance Through Flow
Equalization” (Nolte & Associates, April 1991), the plant can provide secondary
treatment for up to 4.4 MGD during wet weather. From April 2015 through
November 2019, daily influent flows ranged between 0.10 and 1.6 MGD, with an
average of 0.34 MGD.
Existing plant operations and processes include preliminary treatment with bar
screening and grit removal, primary treatment with primary sedimentation tanks,
secondary treatment with trickling filters and secondary sedimentation,
disinfection with sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite.
Treated wastewater is routed to Discharge Point No. 001.
b. Planned Facility. The Planned Facility will be designed to treat all wastewater to
tertiary treatment standards. It is being designed for an average dry weather flow
of 1.3 MGD and a peak wet weather flow of 3.9 MGD.
Planned Facility operations and processes are anticipated to include an
equalization basin for storage of instantaneous peak flows; preliminary treatment,
including screening and grit removal; secondary treatment by means of a
membrane bioreactor (MBR), consisting of activated sludge biological process
basins and submerged membrane filtration trains; and ultraviolet disinfection.
Effluent recycled for use onsite or distributed to other users will be chlorinated.
Effluent in excess of recycled water demands will not be chlorinated and will be
pumped to a constructed wetland adjacent to the new treatment plant for polishing
treatment. After wetland treatment, the treated effluent will be routed to
Discharge Point No. 002.
To adapt to rising sea levels, the Planned Facility will adhere to the City and
County of San Francisco’s Guidance for Incorporating Sea Level Rise into
Capital Planning in San Francisco. The Planned Facility will accommodate 39
inches of sea level rise, plus 6 inches of freeboard.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
[Page 64]
U

===PLANNED CHANGES===

