[Page 1]
8. Effluent disposal is to 94 acres of land south of Lerdo Highway and the WWTF that is
owned by the County. When access roads and berms are omitted, the area contains a
total of about 90 acres of land for the reclamation of wastewater. While WDRs
Order 84-148 indicated the discharge was to irrigate fodder, fiber, and seed crops on
property owned by the County, the discharge is pumped or gravity flows from the holding
ponds at the WWTF through a 10-inch pipeline to a series of four-valved distribution lines
that feed a series of small diameter seepage pits. Unfortunately, the RWD notes that the
[Page 2]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2018-0014 -3-
KERN COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE
KERN COUNTY LERDO CAMPUS
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
capacity of the seepage pits is quickly exceeded and the effluent often flows overland.
Additional disposal occurs as the effluent percolates into the underlying vadose zone from
the unlined effluent storage ponds. The seepage pits have been used for years and allow
the effluent to be concentrated in a smaller area. The area around the seepage pits is
proposed as part of the land application area. The discharge may have concentrated
constituents such as nitrates in the soils underlying the seepage pits. This Order includes
Provision H.14 that requires the Discharger to submit a work plan to close the seepage
pits and evaluate the soil conditions underlying the seepage pits.
Upgraded WWTF and Discharge
9. The upgraded WWTF provides secondary treatment with nitrification and denitrification of
the effluent, and has an annual average daily treatment capacity of 0.68 mgd (maximum
monthly average daily flow of 0.86 mgd, maximum daily flow of 1.09 mgd). The upgraded
WWTF has a new headworks with a mechanical bar screen that removes debris and
solids more than 6 mm in size. A washer compactor dewaters and compresses the
screened solids. A Parshall flume measures influent flow. Secondary treatment is an
extended aeration activated sludge process using the proprietary Biolac Wave Ox system.
A pump station returns biosolids from the clarifier to the aeration basin. Waste activated
sludge is discharged as needed to the aerobic digester. Effluent can be pumped and
stored in one of seven (six unlined, one lined) effluent storage ponds.
10. The upgraded WWTF has been online since April 2017 and there is limited monitoring
data (April through November 2017) available for review.
Table 3 – Upgraded WWTF Influent and Effluent Quality
Constituent Units1 Influent Effluent
Biochemical Oxygen Demand mg/L 148 10
Total Suspended Solids mg/L 131 12
Electrical Conductivity umhos/cm na2 753
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L na2 2.1
Nitrate as Nitrogen mg/L na2 18
Total Nitrogen mg/L na2 20
1. mg/L = milligram per liter; umhos/cm = micromhos per centimeter.
2. na = not analyzed.
11. Biochemical oxygen dema

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed
upgrades to the then existing WWTF at the Kern County Lerdo Campus (Lerdo Campus) at 17824
Quality Road, which is about 10 miles northwest of Bakersfield in Kern County. The upgrades to the
WWTF are generally complete, but the new Kern County Justice Facility (KCJF) is under construction.
The new WWTF has been online since April 2017 and currently serves a population of approximately
2,500 inmates and a staff of about 600. The new KCJF will house an additional 822 inmates and staff.
Wastewater Generation and Disposal
Waste Discharge Requirements Order 84-148 regulates a discharge of up to 0.5 million gallons per day
(mgd) and permits the reclamation of treated effluent from the WWTF to land for irrigation of fodder,
fiber, and seed crops. The former WWTF was constructed in 1978 and produced non-disinfected,
non-denitrified secondary-treated effluent that was discharged to a series of unlined effluent storage
ponds, and then to a land application area south of the WWTF. In the 1990’s, the disposal changed to
a series of seepage pits on the property just south of the WWTF. Unfortunately, the capacity of the
seepage pits is easily exceeded and the effluent often surfaces and flows overland. The discharge of
secondary-treated effluent to the seepage pits concentrates the discharge to a small area and may
have