[Page 83]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of El Portal and the
Yosemite Valley in Yosemite National Park, and serves a population of approximately
2,200 permanent residents and up to 20,000 visitors per day to the Park during peak
summer months. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 1.0 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of preliminary, primary, secondary, and
tertiary treatment. Preliminary treatment consists of bar screening, grit removal, and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 84]
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR ORDER R5-2025-0031
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK NPDES NO. CA0081759
EL PORTAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
grinders. Primary treatment consists of two circular primary clarifiers which are
followed by a 125,000-gallon flow equalization basin. Secondary treatment consists
of activated sludge (three 125,000-gallon aeration tanks) and secondary clarification
(two 50-foot diameter clarifiers). Tertiary treatment consists of coagulation,
flocculation, tube settling, and sand filtration. The tertiary-treated effluent is then
disinfected by ultraviolet light. Dried biosolids are stored onsite at the location(s)
identified in Attachment C and are hauled off-site by Liberty Composting Inc. The
Facility produces approximately 85 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is expecting major Facility upgrades to be completed in 2028. The
upgrades include new preliminary treatment, flow equalization and secondary
treatment. Once the upgrades are complete, the Facility will be capable of
denitrification. The new additions to the Facility will be located adjacent to the
existing Facility. The existing tertiary treatment and UV disinfection will be upgraded.
The Discharger also plans to add a new aerobic sludge digestion system and sludge
dewatering screw press. The effluent discharge locations will remain the same.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued