[Page 2]
12. For the purposes of this Order, the upgraded tertiary WWTF includes the wastewater
collection system, the treatment system, effluent storage ponds, effluent distribution
piping, lined sludge storage area, and the Discharger’s onsite Use Area (spray fields
and crops).
13. Improvements to the WWTF include: upgrade of the existing headworks (new influent
sewer lines, new influent flow metering and new fine/coarse bar screens);
construction/installation of an extended aeration basin; two new secondary clarifiers;
coagulation of clarified effluent; six continuous backwash sand filters; an ultraviolet light
disinfection chamber; three new storage ponds; two new sludge dewatering centrifuges;
and conversion of an existing treatment pond to a dewatered sludge storage area. The
WWTF will produce an effluent anticipated to meet coliform levels of 2.2 Most Probable
Number per 100 milliliters (MPN/100 mL) and a total nitrogen concentration of less than
10 mg/L.
14. Tertiary treated effluent from the WWTF will be recycled and/or disposed of at the
181-acre Use Area west and southwest of the WWTF, as shown in Attachment A. The
term Use

[Page 3]
17. The Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent for Biosolids Discharge to Land dated
22 January 2010 to obtain coverage for a proposed discharge of sludge under State
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Water Quality Order No. 2004-
0012-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to
Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicutural, Horticultural, and Land
Reclamation Activities (General Order 2004-0012-DWQ). The Discharger proposed to
remove approximately 2,500 tons of sludge that had accumulated in the former
treatment ponds, dewater the sludge with a centrifuge, and then dry the sludge in a
3.6-acre clay-lined sludge treatment/storage area (previously a treatment pond). The
resulting biosolids are to be used as a soil amendment on land owned by the
Discharger.
18. The Discharger was issued a Notice of Applicability (NOA) on 15 May 2010 for coverage
under General Order 2004-0012-DWQ. The NOA is for the discharge of sludge from the
former treatment ponds and does not cover discharges of sludge generated from the
ongoing operation of the tertiary WWTF. The NOA will be terminated at the conclusion
of the sludge removal and application project. The Discharger submitted a Pre-
Application report on 3 June 2010 indicating a total of 2,127 tons of Class B biosolids
would be applied to 60 acres at a rate of 35.4 tons per acre.
19. The Discharger proposes to dewater and store sludge generated from the upgraded
tertiary WWTF with a centrifuge and then discharge the dewatered sludge for storage to
a 3.6-acre clay-lined storage area that was formerly a wastewater treatment pond
located adjacent the upgraded WWTF. The Discharger’s consulting engineer provided
a 27 August 2010 signed and stamped memo that indicates the clay liner will confine
any leachate to the storage area. Additional information regarding the storage area
(thickness of clay liner, performance demonstration data, storm water controls) and the
proposed methods of treatment of the sludge is necessary. A Use Area Management
Plan is req

===PLANNED CHANGES===

