[Page 95]
1. Existing Facility. The Facility is staffed and operated 24 hours per day and the
liquid treatment process consists of influent pumps, a septage receiving station,
mechanical bar screening, aerated grit handling, grit classifiers that wash and
dewater grit, covered primary sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen biological
treatment by activated sludge, secondary sedimentation, nitrifying sidestream
treatment for ammonia removal, disinfection with sodium hypochlorite, and
dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. The Facility has partially-constructed and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 96]
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT ORDER R5-2021-0019
SACRAMENTO REGIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0077682
partially-operating Primary Effluent Pump Station (PEPS) and Biological
Nutrient Removal facilities. Effluent can be diverted to lined emergency storage
basins (ESB’s), as needed, to meet effluent dilution, thermal, and disinfection
requirements or divert excess flows. Odors are controlled through stripping
towers and carbon treatment.
2. Future Facility. Based on information provided by the Discharger, the Facility
will be modified in order to comply with certain requirements in this Order,
consistent with the applicable compliance deadlines. The future Facility and
operation is as follows, and differs seasonally.
The desig

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As discussed in section II.A.2 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is constructing
upgrades to the Facility, including replacement of the existing pure oxygen biological
treatment facilities with BNR air activated treatment facilities capable of removing
ammonia and nitrate nitrogen, addition of tertiary treatment in the form of filtration
with granular media filters, and an increase in lined ESB facilities. Construction of
the side stream ammonia treatment is complete.
In all, Facility modifications will result in the construction, commissioning, and
operation of seven or more new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units: flow
equalization, disinfection chemical storage, biological nutrient removal (phase I and
phase II), nitrifying side-stream treatment, and tertiary treatment facilities. Biological
nutrient removal and nitrifying side-stream treatment are biological treatment
processes. The start-up and commissioning period (i.e., period of time necessary for
adjusting and testing of new or reconstructed wastewater treatment units) for
projects of this size, while maintaining consistent and ongoing treatment operations,
is a complex undertaking. It involves the gradual transitioning of wastewater
treatment from curren