[Page 90]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Yuba City and serves a
population of approximately 65,000. In addition, the Facility accepts septage from
unsewered portions of Sutter and Yuba Counties. The design average dry weather flow
capacity of the Facility is 10.5 MGD.
Municipal and industrial wastewater treated at the Facility is either discharged to the
Feather River or to disposal ponds within the Feather River levee system on the eastern
side of the Feather River. The Facility also uses treated wastewater for multiple
processes including the spray system on primary and secondary clarifiers and screw
presses, makeup water for polymers, reheating oxygen, and hosing down facilities in
addition to landscape irrigation of 3.5 acres at the Facility. The ROWD estimates the
seasonal dependent annual average daily volume used for reuse is 0.5 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Secondary-level treated effluent from the Facility may be discharged to the Feather
River via a multiport diffuser at Discharge Point 001, a direct discharge at Discharge
Point 003, or via a multiport diffuser at Discharge Point 004. Treated effluent may
also be directed to Discharge Point 002, a series of six disposal ponds located within
the Feather River levee.
1. Treatment System. The treatment system at the Facility consists of the
following:
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 91]
CITY OF YUBA CITY ORDER R5-2024-0055
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0079260
• Bar screening;
• Aerated grit removal;
• Primary clarification;
• Pure oxygen aeration;
• Secondary clarification;
• Chlorine gas disinfection; and,
• Dechlorination (using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to the Feather River
at Discharge Points 001, 003, and 004).
The aeration process at the Facility was designed to handle high and variable
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) loadings from local food processing facilities,
commercial facilities, and residential areas. Additionally, approximately 30
percent of the BOD loading to the Facility is from one significant industrial user
(Sunsweet Growers) that discharges a nutritionally dilute industrial discharge.
a. Polyammonium Phosphate. A polyammonium phosphate dosing program
was put in place to help balance the influent wastewater nutrient ratio. This
was intended to help control filamentous growth outbreaks that led to high
sludge volume indexes and poor settling in the secondary clarifiers. The
polyammonium phosphate dosing program did not work as intended due to
the lack of the process analyzers and automation systems needed to
accurately track influent nutrients and dose accordingly. As of adoption of this
Order, polyammonium phosphate was last used in October 2022.
2. Stormwater. Section I.B.20 of the General Permit for Storm Water Discharges
Associated with Industrial Activities, Order 2014-0057-DWQ, states “Dis

===PLANNED CHANGES===

