[Page 9]
11. The Stone Ranch Property is underlain by a tile drain system that collects
subsurface drainage and directs it to an onsite evaporation basin. Discharge of
tile drainage water to the evaporation basin at the Stone Ranch property has
historically been regulated by WDRs Order 98-229. Conditions stipulated in
Order 98-229 for operation of the evaporation basin are carried over in this
Order.
12. The WDRs are being updated to incorporate the additional combined effluent
flow and the expanded LAA. WDRs Orders 96-050, 98-229, and
R5-2019-0008 are, therefore, rescinded and replaced with this Order.
Facility and Discharges
Existing Facilities
13. Process water from Leprino’s two facilities is combined in five equalization tanks
with a combined capacity of 3.5 million gallons and conveyed through a
12,000-foot pipeline to the Leprino treatment facility adjacent to the Lemoore
WWTF. The Leprino treatment system utilizes two High-Rate Activated Sludge
(HRAS) reactors, two Dissolved Air Flotation (DAF) units, and three Sequencing
Batch Reactors (SBRs), as shown in Attachment C. The HRAS system is used
to remove 70% or more of soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD)/biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD). The DAF units act as clarifiers to remove activated
sludge from the effluent stream and pump it back into the HRAS reactors. The
SBRs are used to remove additional BOD and provide partial nitrification and
denitrification. The wastewater then goes through a surge tank and final filtration
using a hydrotech disc filter to remove excess suspended solids before it is
discharged to an existing outfall pipeline where it is combined with the City’s
treated sanitary effluent.
[Page 10]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2024-0007 3
CITY OF LEMOORE AND LEPRINO FOODS COMPANY
RIVER RANCH RECYCLED WATER PROJECT
KINGS COUNTY
14. Solids from Leprino’s wastewater treatment system are removed from the
wastewater following treatment, dewatered using a belt press, and sent regularly
to the Stone Ranch property or other permitted destination for temporary storage
and land application. Solids or off-spec wastewater may also be discharged to
one of Leprino’s double-lined (clay liner overlain by an 80-mil HDPE synthetic
liner) facultative lagoons and recycled back into the system as shown in
Attachment C.
15. The Lemoore WWTF treatment process consists of two clay-lined aerated ponds
(Ponds 1A and 1B) and two partially aerated facultative/storage ponds (Ponds 2
and 3). It is unclear whether the facultative/storage ponds are lined. Barley straw
is added to the storage ponds to prevent algal blooms. After leaving the ponds
the City’s effluent is disinfected with chlorine gas before being combined with
Leprino’s treated process water in the existing recycled water pipeline. The pond
layout for the City and Leprino with applicable sampling locations is shown in
Attachment D.
16. Average quality of Leprino’s treated effluent (not combined with the City’s
effluent), City’s effluent (prior to disinfection), and the combined effluent for
October 2019 through December 2022 is presented in Table 1 below.
Table 1 – Average Effluent Quality (October 2019 – December 2022)
Constituent/ Leprino City Combined
Parameter Units Effluent Effluent Effluent
Electrical Conductivity (EC) µmhos/cm 2,904 1,120 2,335
Biochemical Oxygen Demand
mg/L 4.1 58 11.2
(BOD)
Total Suspended Solids
mg/L 17 56 67.1
(TSS)
Total D

===PLANNED CHANGES===

