[Page 0]
5. The Facility receives, on average, 308,000 gallons per day (gpd) of raw domestic
sewage from approximately 800 connections in the City of Westwood (population
~1,600) and a small amount (~2%) of that flow comes from a septage hauler.
[Page 1]
ORDER R5-2019-0061 2
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
Wastewater is discharged to one of four percolation/evaporation ponds. Peak
flows of two times (2x) the average gpd can occur during seasonal storm events.
Existing Facility and Discharge
6. Wastewater receives essentially no treatment before entering the Facility’s pond
system. Treatment in the ponds consists of natural aeration and decomposition.
The system consists of inlet structures (Comminutor and Parshall flume), and
four ponds. Inlet flow can be diverted to Pond 2 to allow drying and cleanout of
Pond 1. Pond 4 is partially segmented by an earthen berm dividing the pond into
east and west cells.
7. In addition to the regular domestic sewage from the town, the District also
receives septic tank effluent from a local septage hauler. The septage is
discharged into a hydrator to remove the liquid. The liquid passes through a
series of screens to remove grit, sand and any other settleable solids not
removed in the hydrator. The septage is separated ahead of the ponds so only
the clarified liquid is discharged into a 10,000-gallon holding tank for later release
into the Westwood outfall sewer line that discharges to the ponds.
8. The solids accumulated from the hydrator are coagulated with the use of a
polymer and when thoroughly coagulated are discharged to a drying bed near
the headworks of the system, about 500 feet east of Pond 1. The dried sludge is
transported to an appropriate disposal site in Nevada.
Site-Specific Conditions
9. The Facility’s wastewater treatment ponds are at an elevation of approximately
5,052 feet mean sea level (MSL). The overall topography at the Facility is
generally flat with a gentle slope to the south, towards Mountain Meadows
Reservoir.
10. The Facility ponds themselves are within Zone A (no base flood elevation
established) and the remainder of the property is located within Zone X (areas of
0.2 percent annual chance flooding).
11. The Facility is located within the south end of the Cascade Mountains Geologic
Province of California. Directly beneath the site, the basement rock is either
granite or meta-volcanic rock of Mesozoic age or older at an indeterminate (16 ft)
depth. The treatment ponds are constructed over flat-lying, vesicular basalt of
Pleistocene age. Interbedded within the basalt are cinders and residual clays,
and other pyroclastic rocks. Boring logs for the site indicate that the depth to
basalt bedrock ranges from 5 to over 25 feet. Clayey silt or gravel is commonly
found in fractures between blocks of basalt.
[Page 2]
ORDER R5-2019-0061 3
WESTWOOD CSD
WASTEWATER TREATMENT/DISPOSAL PONDS
LASSEN COUNTY
12. The soil types encountered at the Facility generally consist of gravelly to sandy
silt, clayey sand, and volcanic gravel and cobbles with the predominant soil type
in the project vicinity identified as Redriver-Weste complex, with 2 to 9 percent
slopes. Soils at bottom-of-pond are classified as a clayey sand (SC). The
permeability value for the clayey sand is 3.6 x 10-6 centimeter/second.
13. Annual Precipitation in the area is approximately 20 inches with an annual pan
evaporation of approximately 55 inches.
14. In the immediate vicinity of the Facility, land uses consist of timberland harvest,
open space, and rural residential. Mountain Meadows Reservoir also abuts the
property to the south/southeast.
Groundwater Conditions
15. The Site is not located within a groundwater basin as delineated by the California
Department of Water Resources (DWR). The site lies to the ea

===PLANNED CHANGES===

