[Page 73]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Colusa and serves a population
of approximately 6175. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 0.7 million
gallons per day (MGD). The Facility provides Title 22 tertiary treatment to municipal
wastewater with a current discharge flow of about 0.44 MGD. The Facility is also covered
under Water Quality Order WQ 2016-0068 DDW, Water Reclamation Requirements for
Recycled Water Use, and plans to use recycled water to irrigate City-owned farmland
adjacent to the Facility, and for landscape irrigation and dust control.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 74]
CITY OF COLUSA ORDER R5-2022-0020
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078999
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of headworks with mechanical
screening and flow measurement; a lined Biolac aeration basin with nitrification and
denitrification; two circular secondary clarifiers; a chemical feed facility; a rapid mix
basin; two flocculation basins; two cloth filters; an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection
channel; a reaeration basin; daily and monthly equalization basins; and an
emergency storage basin. After final treatment and disinfection, discharge of water
for recycling is diverted to the reclamation system which consists of a conveyance
pipe to the operational storage basin from which the recycled water is pumped to
various reclamation uses, such as irrigation of City-owned farmland, dust control,
and other irrigation uses. For storage of recycled water to be used for reclamation,
the Facility includes an operational storage basin and a seasonal storage basin.
Sludge is anaerobically digested in HDPE-lined facultative sludge lagoons. A
groundwater leachate collection system is located beneath the lagoons. All collected
leachate is routed back to the headworks. After several years, one of the two basins
is emptied, dewatered, and dried in place. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill for
disposal. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S.
EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503. If suitable, the Discharger plans to use the dried
biosolids on the City-owned farmland.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is locate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

