[Page 81]
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of preliminary influent bar screening
with a Parshall flume and ultrasonic level sensor, an aeration basin divided into two
equally sized cells, two 2.5-acre evaporation/percolation ponds, a filter supply pump
station, a horizontal pressure filter, and chlorine disinfection (with liquid sodium
hypochlorite) and dechlorination (with liquid sodium bisulfite). The design average
dry weather flow capacity is 0.070 mgd and the wet weather hydraulic design
treatment capacity is 0.75 mgd. The design filter loading rate is 0.576 mgd (400
gallons per minute). No chemicals are added to aid filtration. The multi-media
filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination units only operate during periods of
discharge to the South Fork of Battle Creek.
Aeration Basin: The aeration basin is clay lined with air blown mortar (ABM) slope
protection at the normal water level depth of 11.5 feet. The 1.52-million-gallon (MG)
basin is divided into two equally sized cells by a vinyl-coated polyester baffle curtain.
The hydraulic detention time in each cell at design ADWF is approximately ten days.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 82]
TEHAMA COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT NO.1 ORDER R5-2023-0040
MINERAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0084069
Evaporation/Percolation Ponds: Two 2.5-acre evaporation and percolation ponds are
provided to receive effluent from the aeration basin. The ponds serve as settling
basins for solids from the aeration process, as effluent disposal through evaporation
and percolation, and as regulating storage for filtered discharge to South Fork Battle
Creek. At least 2 feet of freeboard is maintained in both ponds at all times. Pond 1
will overflow into Pond 2 at the 2-foot freeboard level. In recent years, operations
have been to send effluent from the aeration basin into Pond 2 as it has a faster
percolation rate than Pond 1. As Pond 2 begins to get full, effluent is diverted to
Pond 1. Pond 1 and Pond 2 percolation rates range from 40,000 to 60,000 gpd and
60,000 to 80,000 gpd, respectively. When Pond 1 is full, it contains approximately
3.14 million gallons before reaching 2 feet freeboard; Pond 2 has a capacity of 5.38
million gallons before reaching the 2-foot free board requirement. Total capacity for
the two ponds is 8.5 million gallons. During seasonal discharge to South Fork Battle
Creek, withdrawal from each pond is controlled by valves on the suction piping at the
Filter Supply Pump Station.
Biosolids Handling: Currently solids captured by screens at the headworks are the
only solids removed from the plant on a regular basis. The headworks screenings
are washed and left to dewater and dry on the screened top access to the bar
screens and material is hauled offsite for disposal. Aeration cells No. 1 and No. 2
were measured for sludge depth in 2016 and again in 2021. The measurement
showed there was an insignificant amount of sludge in the ponds and that no
removal necessary.
Stormwater Management: The Discharger constructed a concrete lined storm water
interceptor channel around the Facility in 1998 which intercepts offsite storm water
from Highway 36 and contributing areas. The channel directs storm water around
the Facility and has been effective in reducing discharge events by preventing storm
water runoff from entering the evaporation/percolation ponds. The only basin with
substantial area and impervious area is the Operations Building Basin, of which
there is approximately 100-150 feet of soil and vegetated buffer area that stormwater
passes through before leaving the site.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 26, T28N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal w

===PLANNED CHANGES===

