[Page 4]
17. The aerated ponds' increased depth and anti-erosion plates will focus aeration to the
pond surface, allowing solids settling and digestion in the deeper fermentation pit portion
of Aeration Pond No. 2. The two remaining oxidation ponds will function as facultative
lagoons. Construction of the reconfigured ponds will involve removal of accumulated
sludge, over excavation of the first two feet of soil, and replacement of that soil at
90 percent relative compaction to form a reduced permeability liner. Design data for the
upgraded treatment ponds is summarized in the following table.
[Page 5]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0109 6
MAXWELL PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT
MAXWELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
COLUSA COUNTY
Operating
Surface Area Volume 1 Total Depth 2 Depth 3
Pond Name (acres) (MG) (feet) (feet)
Aeration Pond #1 1.24 3.55 15 13
Aeration Pond #2 2.08 6.09 15 13
Facultative Lagoon #1 2.00 2.83 7 to 11 5
Facultative Lagoon #2 2.00 2.96 7 5
1
Total volume at two feet freeboard.
2
Depth from berm crest to pond bottom.
3
Design operating depth with two feet of freeboard.
The bottom elevation of Aerated Pond No. 1 and the facultative lagoons will remain the
same (approximately, 80, 83.5, and 83 feet NAVD 881, respectively). Aerated Pond No. 2
will be excavated two to eight feet deeper to 80 feet NAVD 88.
18. The Discharger has been disinfecting treated effluent for several years to comply with its
NPDES permit. Disinfection is not required to comply with the water recycling regulations
set forth in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (Title 22) for irrigation of pasture
unless milking animals are allowed to graze on the recycling site. The Discharger does
not wish to allow grazing for milking animals at the water recycling site. The RWD stated
that the Discharger would continue disinfecting the effluent a

[Page 6]
25. The RWD included a water balance for the both the current and post-project design flow
scenarios to demonstrate adequate treatment, storage and disposal capacity for current
demand and anticipated development through approximately 2028. The water balance
was prepared based on reasonable estimates of influent flows, I/I, precipitation,
evaporation, and percolation. The water balance was used to model storage and
disposal capacity during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event with at least two feet of
[Page 7]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0109 8
MAXWELL PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT
MAXWELL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
COLUSA COUNTY
freeboard in every pond. The model indicates that the upgraded WWTF will provide the
following capacities:
Condition Capacity
Average daily flow 0.332 mgd
Average daily dry weather flow 1 0.224 mgd
Peak wet weather flow 1.50 mgd
1
June through September, inclusive.
The model shows that I/I is critical to the WWTF's effluent disposal capacity. Therefore, it
is appropriate to require that the Discharger continue its I/I reduction efforts, including
requiring p

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
14. As noted above, the Discharger proposes to upgrade the WWTF to improve treatment
reliability and add effluent storage and a water recycling site. Upon completion of the
improvements project, the Discharger will eliminate the discharge to surface waters to
comply with the TSO. The Discharger has secured approval for a $1.7 million grant from
the State Water Resources Control Board for this purpose, and additional funding is being
provided by the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Community Assistance
Program in the form of a grant and low interest loan.
15. The improvements project will consist of:
a. Increasing the depth of the existing aerated pond (Aeration Pond No.1);
b. Converting Oxidation Pond #I to a second aerated pond (Aeration Pond No. 2) with a
deeper fermentation pit;
c. Deepening the Oxidation Ponds #2 and #3 to convert them to facultative lagoons
(Facultative Lagoon Nos. 1 and 2);
d. Constructing an effluent pumping station and pipeline to convey treated effluent to an
effluent storage pond at the water recycling site; and
e. Improving the new water recycling site to provide irrigation and tailwater systems.
A conceptual site plan for the upgraded treatment plant is shown on Attachment C, which
is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
16. The project plans indicate that an average of 3 feet of sludge will be removed from the
existing oxidation ponds during construction. The plans require that the contractor decant
free liquids into one of the ponds and dry the sludge either within the ponds or by placing
it on a three-acre field south of the existing ponds. Once dry to an unspecified degree,
the sludge is to be spread on the field. The RWD did not include a plan to ensure that the
applied sludge will comply with the federal biosolids regulations, which include
requirements for pathogen reduction, vector attraction reduction, and contaminant
concentration limits. Additionally, the RWD did not specify storm water runoff control, the
rate of application with respect to nutrients or cropping plans to ensure nitrog