[Page 99]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Merced and serves a population
of approximately 93,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 12.0
MGD. Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions
at the Facility to increase the design daily average flow capacity to 16.0 MGD and up to
20.0 MGD, respectively.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of the following: a headworks pump
station with fine screens and grit removal; primary clarifiers; activated sludge basins
with separate anoxic denitrification basins; secondary clarifiers; flocculation basins;
filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; a rock re-aeration outfall; and a stormwater basin.
Solids handling and treatment include: a dissolved air flotation thickener, primary
digesters, solids holding tank, digester gas holder, solids dewatering facility, centrate
pump station, equalization basin, and lined active solar dryers. All dried biosolids are
applied to the Land Application Area (LAA) except the abandoned ponds 5 and 6
area. The Facility produces approximately 1,500 dry metric tons of biosolids
annually.
During emergencies, if the treated wastewater is not meeting permit requirements,
the wastewater is directed to the lined equalization basin. Additionally, under
extreme wet weather flow conditions, flows greater than the design maximum flow
are diverted to the lined equalization basin. Diverted flows are returned to the plant
headworks for treatment as plant capacity allows. In these emergent conditions, if
flows are greater than can be contained in the lined equalization basin, flow can be
diverted to the unlined emergency storage basin.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 10, T8S, R13E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Equivalent disinfected tertiary treated municipal wastewater is discharged at
Discharge Point 002 to Hartley Slough at a point latitude 37.253577 degrees N
and longitude 120.53159

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Based on demand, the Discharger has plans to complete two phased expansions at
the Facility to increase the flow rate to 16.0 MGD and 20.0 MGD. The expansion to
16.0 MGD will consist of adding a fourth activated sludge basin, a third sludge
digester, a solids holding tank, and additional active solar dryers. The expansion to
20.0 MGD will consist of adding a fourth primary clarifier, a fifth activated sludge
basin, and a fifth secondary clarifier. Effluent quality is anticipated to stay the same.
The Discharger has not proposed a timeframe for the phased expansions.
The Discharger detailed some scheduled improvements in the ROWD. In 2025, the
Discharger plans to perform PLC and SCADA hardware and software replacements
and updates and UV system PLC replacement with equipment updates. In 2027, the
Discharger plans to replace aeration basins 1 and 2, replace blowers, and perform
headworks improvements, pending funding.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 o