[Page 5]
22. According to the RWD, the lift station wet well, wet well overflow sump, and sewer system
provide a reserve storage capacity of approximately eight hours at current influent flows.
In the event of a power failure, a standby generator and pump can be used to transfer
sewage from the wet well to the primary ponds. The Discharger plans to install an
autodialer system to notify the plant operator of any alarm conditions.
Wastewater Collection System
23. The Knights Landing sewer system consists of 6-, 8-, and 10-inch vitrified clay pipe that
connects to a 12-inch gravity interceptor. The interceptor discharges into the main lift
station at the WWTF for distribution to the treatment ponds.
24. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary storage
and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines,
etc.) may be part o

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in Discharge
17. The Discharger plans to expand the existing WWTF to serve a new residential subdivision.
The subdivision is expected to increase the population served by the WWTF from
approximately 1,018 to 1,320.
18. The WWTF treatment and disposal capacity will be increased by converting part of the
existing 31.5-acre land spreading area to two percolation/evaporation ponds (Ponds 9 and
10). The remainder will continue to be used as land spreading area when needed. The
walls of the headworks structure will be raised by one foot to provide 100-year flood
protection. The rest of the WWTF is outside the 100-year floodplain.
19. Pond 9 will have a surface area of approximately 5.0 acres and a maximum volume of
31 acre-feet at two feet of freeboard. Pond 10 will have a surface area of approximately
4.5 acres and a maximum volume of 30 acre-feet at two feet of freeboard
20. The Discharger has completed a water balance for the expanded facility to demonstrate
that adequate treatment, storage and disposal capacity is available for the new subdivision
and other future developments. The water balance was prepared based on reasonable
estimates of site-specific influent flows, precipitation, evaporation, percolation, and
groundwater infiltration into the sewer system. The water balance was used to model
storage and disposal capacity during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event. The
model indicates that the expanded WWTF will have sufficient capacity for 105,000 gpd as
an average daily dry weather flow (from August through October each year) and
48.4 million gallons (MG) as a total annual influent flow (including I/I).
21. The WWTF Operation and Maintenance Manual submitted with the Report of Waste
Discharge is over 30 years old and needs to be updated to addre