[Page 86]
Since construction upgrades will be completed during the term of the permit, a
description of both the existing and upgraded WWTP treatment is included below.
Existing WWTP
The Facility design ADWF capacity is 0.8 MGD. The PWWF capacity is 2.1 MGD,
based on secondary treatment only. The Facility’s current ADWF (based on August
through October flow data) is 0.44 MGD and the average flow (when discharging to
the river) is 0.56 MGD. The highest PWWF at the effluent during the term of the
previous permit was recorded on 1 March 2019 at 1.5 MGD.
The treatment system consists of headworks (Parshall flume, mechanical shredder,
and bypass bar screen), unlined oxidation lagoons with aeration in ponds 1, 2, and 4,
dissolved air flotation thickener (DAFT) and rapid sand filtration, chlorine contact
chamber, dechlorination system, and a discharge line. The DAFT and rapid sand
filtration unit have a hydraulic capacity of 0.8 mgd. The use of the DAFT and rapid
sand filtration is limited during the winter period (16 November through 14 April) due to
limited hydraulic capacity to control wet weather flows, freezing conditions, and
fluctuating alkalinity and pH with alum used at the DAFT. All other times during the
year, the DAFT and rapid sand filtration units are utilized as part of the treatment
process. Discharge to the surface water during the fall (15 September through 14
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 87]
CITY OF MT. SHASTA ORDER R5-2023-0016
CITY OF MT. SHASTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078051
November) and spring (15 April through 14 June) shoulder periods receive advanced
secondary treatment.
Scum is periodically skimmed from the DAFT unit and conveyed to the backwash
pond to dry. Aside from sludge buildup over time in the lagoons and the material
skimmed from the DAFT unit, the Facility does not generate or handle solids other
than what is removed manually from the headworks.
Upgraded WWTP
The Facility design ADWF capacity is 0.9 MGD and the PWWF capacity is 3.6 MGD.
The treatment system consists of a mechanical spiral screen, grit chamber, activated
sludge with 2-stage aeration, clarification, filtration with disk filters, and UV
disinfection.
If necessary, overflow from the disk filters will flow to an unlined overflow pond on site
before being re-routed back to the treatment train. The Discharger expects this to
occur on an emergency basis only.
Solids are collected from the various treatment processes and treatment includes
aerobic digestion and mechanical sludge dewatering in a fan press. Solids are
collected in covered bins then hauled to a landfill for final disposal.
As noted in section II.E

[Page 91]
2013 to comply with requirements of previous NPDES permits, including more
stringent effluent limitations for BOD5, TSS, ammonia, copper, zinc, total coliform, and
pH.
The Project consists of upgrades at the Facility headworks, removing the lagoon
treatment and installing new clarifiers and activated sludge treatment capable of
nitrification and denitrification, new cloth filtration, and switching chlorine disinfection to
UV disinfection. Repairs at the outfall line into the Sacramento River include, but are
not limited to, replacement of the diffuser to ensure all ports are below the water
surface year-round.
The upgrades will increase the design ADWF from 0.8 MGD to 0.9 MGD and the
PWWF capacity from 2.1 MGD to 3.6 MGD.
The Discharger expects upgrades to be complete by Spring 2023 and once complete
and fully operational, the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes below, the upgrades are expected to be
complete by Spring 2023.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 28, T40N, R04W, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. The Facility discharges wastewater to the Sacramento River, a water of the United
States, within the Upper Sacramento Hydrologic Unit, Mount Shasta Hydrologic
Area, Box Canyon Hydrologic Subarea.
3. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to the
Sacramento River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 41° 16’ 35.18” N
and longitude 122° 19’ 6.98” W. The discharge point is approximately 0.6 miles
downstream of Box Canyon Dam.
4. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 002, a land
discharge to the leachfield south of Highway 89 at a point latitude 41° 17’ 8.34” N
and longitude 122° 16’ 24.65” W. The leachfield is on USFS property and located
approximately 3 miles east of the Facility and the Sacramento River.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 88]
CITY OF MT. SHASTA ORDER R5-2023-0016
CITY OF MT. SHASTA WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0078051
5. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 003, a recycled
water discharge to the Mt. Shasta Resort Golf Course at a point latitude