[Page 86]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Redding and serves a
population of approximately 29,000. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 3.4 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of bar screening; primary
sedimentation; alkalinity adjustment; biological treatment by activated sludge,
including nitrification and denitrification; secondary sedimentation; filtration;
disinfection; and dechlorination. Sludge is aerobically digested and dewatered using
a belt filter press. Dried biosolids are stored onsite at the location(s) identified in
Attachment C and are hauled to a landfill for disposal. The facility produces
approximately 100 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and
disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 11 and 12

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is evaluating plans to add facultative sludge lagoons and sludge
drying beds to the Facility. The facultative sludge lagoons would be used in
conjunction with the aerobic digesters to increase the Facility’s ability to reduce
solids. The sludge drying beds would be used as the Facility’s primary method of
dewatering solids, however, the Discharger would maintain the belt filter press as a
backup for dewatering. If these treatment components are installed at the Facility,
the new sewage sludge treatment train process will be secondary clarifiers, aerobic
digesters, facultative sludge lagoons, and sludge drying beds.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 89]
CITY OF REDDING ORDER R5-2023-0017
STILLWATER WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILTY NPDES CA0082589
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the