[Page 83]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service to wastewater customers for the community of
Linda, portions of unincorporated Yuba County south of Marysville, and the City of
Marysville. The City of Marysville wastewater conveyance to the WWTP began in
November 2019. Wastewater primarily consists of domestic residential connections with
limited commercial customers. No industrial uses occur within the current service area.
The current design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is 5.0 MGD. The
Discharger is planning a regionalization project with the City of Marysville to
accommodate planned and approved growth within the service area. The Discharger
anticipates that the current permitted discharger rate is adequate for the service area
needs through the next permit term with a current average dry weather flowrate of 2.6
MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of the headworks, two rectangular
primary clarifiers, four air activated sludge basins (that provide nitrification and
denitrification), two secondary clarifiers, compressible media filters, a chlorine
contact basin, and dechlorination using sulfur dioxide.
The Facility discharges to land using a series of five percolation ponds that lie within
the Feather River floodplain. Currently the Discharger discharges to a single pond at
a time and once that pond reaches a predetermined level they stop discharging to
that pond and start discharging to the next pond in series. They rotate though the
five ponds using this sequence, allowing them to perform pond maintenance
including discing and mowing prior to reuse. The pond berms have been overtopped
during high river stages five times since the Facility was constructed in 1960, most
recently in February 2017, resulting in tertiary treated wastewater from the ponds
being discharged to the Feather River. The most southeastern point of the
Discharger’s percolation ponds is approximately 1600 feet upstream from the City of
Yuba City’s most northern percolation pond. Yuba City is currently discharging to six
percolation ponds a majority of the year, while they are working to construct a new
diffuser that is submerged year-round, allowing less frequent discharge to their
percolation ponds. The Facility currently provides wastewater treatment to a
population of approximately 24,000, after the connection of Marysville’s collection
system to the Discharger’s facility in November 2019. The Discharger also maintains
a wastewater outfall pipeline terminating on the bank of the Feather River; however,
this outfall is rarely used and was not used during the term of previous Order R5-
2017-0094.
Solids handling facilities include a rotary drum thickener, two anaerobic digesters,
eight sludge drying beds and two facultative sludge lagoons. One of the sludge
lagoons is lined with a 60-mil fused HPDE liner and the other sludge lagoon and
eight sludge drying beds are concrete lined with waterstops at the construction and
expansion joints. The sludge lagoons each have a decant structure that allows liquid
to flow to the headworks. The eight drying beds have underdrains that also flow back
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 84]
LINDA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5-2022-0070
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079651
to the headworks. Therefore, the sludge lagoons and drying beds are all lined and
have drains or decant structures to preventing a release of contaminants to
groundwater.
The Discharger has received odor complaints by residents at the north end of the
plant, which corresponds to the prevailing wind from the southwest, as the HDPE
lined sludge lagoon is unable to be adequately emptied before warm weather
months, causing the odors. The HDPE lined lagoon stores a majority of sludge
produced in the wet weather months when the drying beds are less efficient. The
construction of the new 8-million-gallon concrete-lined flow equalization and sludge
storage basin is anticipated to allow the complete draining and drying of sludge from
the HDPE lined lagoon, which should help to mitigate future odor complains from
nearby residents. Annually, the sludge drying beds are manually cleaned and
approximately 400 tons of dewatered solids are disposed of in a landfill. Also, the
Discharger has not observed windborne contamination to the chlorine contact basins
from the biosolids storage area, especially since the prevailing winds are from the
southwest and there is a building just west of the storage area.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 1, T14N, R3E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. The Facility is permitted to discharge treated municipal wastewater at Discharge
Point 001 t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to construct an 8-million-gallon concrete-lined flow
equalization and sludge storage basin to allow for temporarily holding peak wet
weather flows and sludge storage. This basin will be constructed with waterstops
installed at each joint. During the dry months sludge will be spread out in the basin
at a height of 12 to 18 inches for drying. During wet months the sludge will be
removed to allow the basin to provide the plant with emergency storage of raw or
primary treated influent. The new basin will be located within the current Facility
footprint adjacent to the two existing sludge lagoons (sludge lagoon No.1 and No.2).
It will be bifurcated by a concrete berm with one decant structure located in the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-10
[Page 89]
LINDA COUNTY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5-2022-0070
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079651
southern half of the basin. This project is began in 2021 and will approximately be
completed within a year.
The Discharger is also evaluating the need for additional grit removal to
accommodate high influent grit loading during high-flow storm events. Storm flows in
2019 resulted in a surge of grit entering the WWTP that damaged the primary sludge
pump, pipelines, and inundated the primary clarifier influent channel and primary
sludge collection system. A grit removal study was conducted to inform this
treatment process improvement.
These changes are associated with increases in the design capacity of the Facility
from 5.0 MGD to 6.7 MGD to accommodate regionalization of flows from the City of
Marysville and future growth.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Ord