[Page 77]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the City of Oroville, Lake Oroville Area
Public Utility District, and Thermalito Water and Sewer District, serving a population of
approximately 40,855. The design average dry weather flow capacity of the Facility is
6.5 million gallons per day (MGD). The Discharger also accepts hauled septic waste.
The Discharger has an approved U.S. EPA pretreatment program that includes two
categorical significant industrial users (SIUs) and one non-categorical SIU.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of influent screening, grit removal,
primary clarification, biological treatment by activated sludge, secondary clarification,
disinfection, filtration, and dechlorination. Hauled septic and high influent flows that
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 78]
SEWERAGE COMMISSION – OROVILLE REGION ORDER R5-2021-0044
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079235
exceed treatment design capacity are attenuated with lined emergency storage
basins located onsite and returned to the treatment system when flows decrease.
Primary and secondary solids are aerobically digested and then dewatered using
storage basins. Dried biosolids are hauled to a landfill. In 2020, the Facility
generated 415 dry metric tons of biosolids.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in section 19, T19N R4E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the
Feather River, a water of the United States at a point latitude 39° 27’ 11” N and
longitude 121° 38’13”

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning multiple projects during the permit term. One project is
to replace the current influent pump station for larger capacity during wet weather
flows. The second project consists of upgrades to the existing grit removal system,
retrofitting the existing aeration basins to provide nitrification and denitrification,
replacing the chlorine disinfection with UV disinfection, and adding capacity to the
existing secondary clarifiers and filters.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDR’s pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal