[Page 2]
15. The Discharger has completed major upgrades to the WWTP that improve biological
treatment, provide UV disinfection of effluent, provide a back-up secondary clarifier, and
mechanically dewater the sludge. These improvements, described in the RWD, are
expected to protect groundwater quality and serve the Discharger’s projected population
and wastewater treatment needs through year 2025.
16. Both aeration basins have been lined with a 60 mil HDPE single liner to protect
groundwater quality. One aeration basin was lined in spring 2010 and the other was lined
in spring 2011. Additionally, the aeration system was rehabilitated and upgraded with two
additional 100-horsepower blowers.
17. A 120-foot diameter secondary clarifier was constructed in addition to the existing clarifier.
The new clarifier is designed with a 16-foot water depth to adequately separate sludge
solids. The existing 90-foot secondary clarifier will be used in parallel as needed or serve
as a backup when the 120-foot clarifier is out of service for maintenance.
18. Cloth media filters and a ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system were installed to protect
shallow groundwater from coliform organism contamination. The filter system consists of
four pile cloth-media type filters with a nominal pore size of ten microns to remove
suspended solids that would inhibit the efficiency of UV disinfection. The UV disinfection
system consists of two open channels (one duty and one standby), each equipped with
eight banks of UV lights.
19. As part of the WWTP upgrades, an additional screw press was added and both screw
presses with auxiliary equipment (flocculation tanks, polymer system and sludge feed
pump) were installed under a permanent canopy structure. The sludge drying beds are
uncovered and may be used in the summer for additional drying or for backup dewatering.
The sludge storage tank is used for emergency storage of wasted sludge in-case of
dewatering system failure.
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0063 4
CITY OF OAKDALE
OAKDALE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
STANISLAUS COUNTY
20. The Discharger states that the mechanical sludge dewatering system has been prone to
dysfunction since it was installed and the Discharger has been working to fix the system.
This Order requires the Discharger to submit a sludge dewatering system operational
report that describes the measures that have been completed to correct the problems and
certify that the system is operational by 30 December 2012.
21. A schematic of the upgraded treatment system is shown on Attachment C, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference. The wastewater treatment and
disposal process is summarized below:
a. Raw wastewater is pumped from the collection system to the headworks where it is
screened and degritted. Screened wastewater travels through the WWTP by gravity
flow until being pumped for filtration prior to UV disinfection. Filtered wastewater then
travels through the remaining portions of the treatment system by gravity flow.
b. Screened wastewater is aerobically treated in the West Aeration Basin and East
Aeration Basin, which are mechanically aerated and operated in parallel. The aeration
supply of the basins is designed to provide aerobic and anoxic zones to achieve
nitrification and denitrification.
c. Effluent from the aeration ponds is conveyed to the newly constructed 120-foot
diameter secondary clarifier. The existing 90-foot secondary clarifier can be operated
in parallel or serve as a backup when the 120-foot clarifier is being serviced.
d. Effluent from the secondary clarifier is pumped through cloth media filters prior to UV
disinfection. The filter system has a maximum throughput capacity of 11.6 MGD,
which is greater than the design peak flow of 10 MGD. Influent and effluent turbidity is
measured continuously using a turbidimeter.
e. The pumps used for filtration are housed in a low-lift pump station. Currently, three
pumps (two duty, one standby) are installed each with a capacity of 5 MGD and a
fourth pump can be added in the future.
f. Effluent from the cloth media filters is gravity fed to the UV disinfection system, which is
designed for a minimum UV dose of 100 millijoules per square centimeter (mJ/cm2).
g. Disinfected effluent is discharged to eleven rapid infiltration ponds (Ponds 1, 2, 4, 5,
and 8 through 14). Use of the ponds is alternated so that each pond is allowed to dry
before being used again. The Discharger states that rapid infiltration Ponds 3, 6, and 7
are no longer used due to their close proximity to the Stanislaus River.
h. Wasted sludge is pumped to the mechanical dewatering system. The sludge drying
beds may be used in the summer for additional drying or for backup dewatering.
Dewatered sludge is disposed by hauling to a local landfill.
22. The Discharger submitted a revised water balance in the RWD addendum. The water
balance was prepared based on reasonable estimates of influent flows, inflow and
infiltration (I/I), precipitation, percolation, and evaporation. The water balance was used to
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0063 5
CITY OF OAKDALE
OAKDALE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
STANISLAUS COUNTY
model disposal capacity during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event followed by a
year with average precipitation. The model shows that the WWTF provides the following
capacities:
Influent Flow Measurement Capacity
Total Annual Flow 935 MG
Average Dry Weather Flow 2.45 MGD
Maximum Monthly Average Flow 2.7 MGD
23. The following table compares historical effluent data with effluent data obtained after a
majority of the WWTP upgrades were completed in April 2011.
Effluent prior to WWTP Effluent after WWTP
up

===PLANNED CHANGES===

