[Page 87]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the communities in the western and
southern portions of the City of Lathrop, the Crossroads Commercial Center area, and
Lathrop Gateway Business Park and serves a population of approximately 13,200. The
design daily average flow capacity of the Facility is 2.5 million gallons per day (MGD).
Industry within the service area includes manufacturing, food processing, distribution
facilities, restaurants, and trucking companies. Waste streams from these industries are
relatively high-strength commercial/industrial wastewater. In 2005, the Discharger
adopted an Industrial Sewer Use Ordinance (Ordinance), which established pretreatment
standards prior to discharging industrial wastewater to the Facility. The Ordinance
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 88]
City of Lathrop ORDER R5-2022-0004-01
Consolidated Treatment Facility NPDES CA0085359
includes numeric effluent limits for total dissolved solids (TDS), biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), and nitrate. The Discharger currently has industrial waste discharge
permits with 3 significant industrial users to control salinity discharges to the Facility.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The headworks and primary treatment system at the Facility consists of a three-
stage screening process (fine screening, grit removal, ultra-fine screening) and a
950,000-gallon influent equalization tank used to allow a constant flow, determined
by the plant operator, to the biological treatment system by storing a portion of the
influent flow received during peak flow period of the day and returning the stored
wastewater for treatment during low flow periods. Biological treatment consists of a
two-train system with each treatment train consisting of an anoxic basin followed by
an aeration basin, with the anoxic and aeration basins of each train separated by
baffling. Following the biological treatment, a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system
(operating in parallel), consisting of four total (three installed and one for future use)
membrane tanks (each tank contains four modules) provides liquid-solid separation
by a selective membrane barrier. Following filtration, the Facility injects sodium
hypochlorite solution to disinfect prior to entering the chlorine contact basin and
dechlorinates using sodium bisulfite prior to discharge to the San Joaquin River.
An emergency storage basin is used to temporarily hold influent flows exceeding the
capacity of the headworks. It also receives water from the MBR and effluent from the
chlorine contact basin that does not meet permit requirements. The Facility will also
utilize cooling ponds after dechlorination as needed to cool the effluent prior to
discharge to the San Joaquin River to meet temperature effluent limitations. The
emergency storage basin and cooling ponds are lined with at least 40-mil high-
density polyethylene liner.
The waste activated sludge (WAS) generated from the CTF is pumped to a 190,000-
gallon aerobic sludge storage tank. In addition, the existing sludge handling facilities
include two belt filter press units housed in the dewatering building and a concrete
pad for “air drying” of the dewatered sludge. Dewatered cake from the filter press is
transferred either to a sludge haul truck or to the drying bed for storage or
supplemental drying when weather conditions permit. The sludge beds are used
daily, the beds are concrete lined, and any excess liquid is pumped to the
headworks. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S.
EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
Effluent will either be discharged to the San Joaquin River or to the recycled water
distribution system. The Discharger recycles a portion of its wastewater for irrigation
of agricultural and landscape use areas. Recycled water distribution is regulated by
separate State Water Board Water Quali

===PLANNED CHANGES===

