[Page 0]
6. The existing WWTF consists of three lift stations (one with headworks), an unlined aerated
pond (Pond 1), two sedimentation ponds (Ponds 2 and 3), and three evaporation and
percolation ponds (Ponds 4 through 6). Attachment C of this Order, which is attached
[Page 1]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0100 -2-
CITY OF SAN JOAQUIN WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
hereto and made part of this Order by reference, depicts a process flow diagram of the
existing WWTF.
7. The WWTF’s collection system is composed of 10 miles of gravity sewer lines, about
one-half mile of 8-inch force main and two lift stations, which converge to a terminal lift
station at Manning Avenue. The headworks is contained at the Manning lift station and
consists of a 3-inch Parshall flume and a manually-cleaned bar screen immediately
upstream of the lift station. Effluent is pumped from the Manning lift station to the WWTF
one half mile to the west.
8. Wastewater from the Manning lift station is discharged to Pond 1. Pond 1 is approximately
6 ft deep with one foot of freeboard, has a total volume of 20.9 acre-ft and an average
residence time of about 25 days. Aeration is provided by two 5 horsepower surface
aerators operated on timers. Wastewater from Pond 1 is discharged through a splitter box
into Ponds 2 and 3, which are operated in series. Ponds 2 and 3 are about 6 ft deep, and
have a combined wastewater volume of 50 acre-ft. These ponds are above the initial clay
layer, which helps restrict percolation.
9. Effluent from Ponds 2 and 3 discharge to evaporation/percolation Ponds 4, 5 and 6
(disposal ponds). The disposal ponds are about 12 feet deep each and have combined
surface area and effluent storage capacity of about 13.3 acres and 155.3 acre-ft,
respectively. These ponds are below the existing first encountered clay layer to enhance
percolation. The Discharger also uses a borrow pit for emergency storage to provide
additional capacity during heavy rainfall. The borrow pit will later be converted to a
permanent disposal pond.
10. The Discharger currently disposes of sludge onsite by draining and drying the ponds and
discing the residual sludge into soils underlying the ponds. City staff do not know the last
time sludge was removed from the aeration pond.
11. Self-monitoring reports from 2006 indicate that winter flows are not higher than summer
flows, demonstrating insignificant inflow and infiltration to the collection system during
winter months.
12. Self-monitoring data from January 2006 to December 2006 characterize the discharge as
follows:
Constituent/Parameter Units Influent Effluent % Removal1
Monthly Average Discharge Flow mgd 0.31 NS2

[Page 3]
16. The RWD describes the City’s plans to construct a new extended aeration biological
treatment process to replace the existing mechanical surface aerated pond system. The
treatment process will be operated to allow for de-nitrification. The WWTF will consist of an
aeration basin, an integral clarifier, return and waste activated sludge pumps, a blower
building, and sludge handling and storage facilities. The City has not determined the final
placement of the primary aeration basin, which may be constructed by converting existing
Pond 1, or constructing a new basin just north of Pond 1.
17. The water balance presented in the RWD indicates that the City will need approximately
40.5 acres of percolation area to dispose of 0.5 mgd. To obtain the necessary area, the
City plans to convert Ponds 2 and 3 and possibly Pond 1 into disposal ponds. This will be
achieved by lowering the pond bottom elevations beneath the existing clay layer to the
permeable soil below, which will enhance percolation. In addition, the City intends to
construct additional disposal ponds on existing City-owned land and an additional 25 acres
south of the WWTF, which is not currently owned by the City. The City will purchase this
property once funding is available. Attachment A depicts the locations of the existing and
proposed disposal ponds.
18. The RWD indicates that the proposed discharge will achieve the following effluent quality.
Constituent/Parameter Units Monthly Average Daily Maximum
Monthly Average Discharge Flow mgd 0.5 --
pH s.u. -- 6.0-9.01
Settleable Solids mL/L 0.1 0.2
BOD mg/L 15 30
TSS mg/L 15 30
Total Nitrogen mg/L 10 15
EC µmhos/cm SW2 + 700 --
1 Shown as a daily minimum and maximum range
2 Source water
19. It is

===PLANNED CHANGES===

