[Page 6]
23. Flow equalization may be provided by an equalization basin after the treatment process.
The basin may or may not be lined and will be maintained to prevent weed growth and
rodent intrusion.
24. Treated wastewater will continue to be disposed in the existing percolation basins
and/or former treatment /polishing ponds. The basins will be operated to maximize
percolation and minimize evaporation. As a result of the new wastewater treatment
system and improved operation of the percolation basins, the overall salinity increase
due to evapoconcentration is expected to be reduced from 80 percent to 20 percent.
25. The Discharger has not used the 120 acres of former land application area (LAA) for
effluent disposal since 2009 and does not plan to in the future. However, the
Discharger may use the former LAA and/or the decommissioned treatment pond area
to add additional percolation basins as operational backup of hydraulic capacity.
26. The RWD included a water balance based on reasonable estimates of influent flows,
inflow and infiltration (I/I), precipitation, percolation, and evaporation. The water
balance was used to model disposal capacity during a year with average precipitation
followed by a 100-year, 365-day precipitation event. The model shows that the new
WWTF will provide the capacities in the following table. During an average precipitation
year, only one or two percolation basins will be needed. During a 100-year, 365-day
precipitation event, the WWTF may need to use all eight percolation basins.
Influent Flow Measurement Capacity
Total Annual Flow 701 MG
Average Annual Flow 1.92 MGD
Maximum Monthly Average Flow 2.0 MGD
[Page 7]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014-0098 8
CITY OF DIXON
DIXON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SOLANO COUNTY
27. Decommissioning the wastewater treatment ponds will require the removal of
accumulated sludge. The sludge depth is estimated to be less than two feet in the first
three ponds and the total accumulation is estimated to be about 2,000 dry tons. This
Order requires the submittal of a pond closure workplan and closure report.
28. The new treatment system will use secondary clarifiers. Wasted sludge will be
mechanically dewatered and further dewatering may occur seasonally using asphalt
paved drying beds. Leachate and storm water runoff from the drying beds will be
returned to the treatment system. Dried solids will be disposed of at a landfill or other
approved disposal or reuse site.
Site-Specific Conditions
29. The Dixon community obtains its potable water supply from groundwater supply wells,
which are owned and operated by two water service suppliers, California Water Service
and Dixon-Solano Water Authority. The following table summarizes data from the
2012 California Water Service and Dixon-Solano Water Authority Drinking Water
Q

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Facility and Discharge
The Discharger plans to decommission the 122 acres of treatment ponds and construct an
activated sludge treatment system to minimize evapoconcentration of salts. The new system
will contain two treatment trains operated in parallel. Each treatment train will consist of a
concrete oxidation ditch and a secondary clarifier. The RWD states that evapoconcentration
during treatment will be negligible. The activated sludge treatment system will be
constructed in the northern area of the current wastewater ponds.
Influent wastewater character is not expected to change except with respect to salinity and
boron. The boron concentration may increase if residents use boron containing detergents to
improve the cleaning efficiency of hard water and the loss of water softeners. Additionally,
overall influent salinity could increase due to increased household water conservation.
Treated wastewater will continue