[Page 3]
19. According to the RWD, sludge produced from the WWTF will be dewatered in
geotextiles tubes installed inside roll-off bins. Water will drain through pores in the
[Page 4]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2016-0092
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION -5-
PLEASANT VALLEY STATE PRISON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
geotextile tubes and into the roll-off bins. The rear door of the roll-off bin(s) will be
propped open slightly to allow free water to drain from the roll-off bin(s) to a concrete
slab below. Water on the concrete slab will drain to a sump and then pumped back to
the aeration ponds for treatment. Once the geotextile tube(s) are filled, the geotextile
tube(s) will be left to drain for up to a week. Then the geotextile tube(s) and solids will
be dumped as a unit in a landfill. The roll-off bins will be returned to the WWTF and new
geotextile tube(s) will be placed in the roll-off bin(s) and the process will be repeated.
20. The WWTF will have reliability and redundancy features that will include: a) multiple
aeration ponds capable of producing oxidized wastewater with one pond not in
operation; b) aerator alarms and alarms from downstream treatment processes; c)
connection from the aeration ponds directly to the chlorine contact tanks will be
removed, preventing the possibility of treated wastewater from going directly to
disinfection and bypassing filtration; and d) emergency storage of wastewater not
meeting Title 22 requirements.
Wastewater Collection System
21. The Discharger’s collection system is comprised of about five miles of gravity sewer
lines and an influent pump station outside of the secured perimeters where flow is
screened then pumped through one mile of force main to the WWTF.
22. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Resources Control Board (hereafter State Water
Board) adopted a General Sanitary Sewer System Order (State Water Resources
Control Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ, Statewide General Wa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Proposed Upgrades
Proposed upgrades to the WWTF include: a submersible pump in storage Pond 4, a
flocculation tank, suspended air flotation unit, granular media filter, storage tank for filter
backwash, sludge dewatering geotextile tubes, and a second chlorine contact tank.
Construction of the WWTF upgrades is expected to begin in fall 2016.
The agreement between the Discharger and Devine and Wood for the delivery of
treated wastewater from the WWTF to the Use Areas expired on 31 May 2015. By letter
4 May 2015, both the Discharger and Devine and Wood extended the terms of their
agreement through the construction of the WWTF upgrades to produce disinfected tert