[Page 77]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of San Andreas and serves
a population of approximately 2,200 and has no industrial users. The design average dry
weather flow (ADWF) capacity of the Facility is 0.32 million gallons per day (MGD) and
the peak hour flow is 1.9 MGD, excluding the capacity of the High Flow Treatment
System (HFTS).
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility treatment system consists of one mechanical screen, a primary clarifier,
a trickling filter, a two-train nitrifying activated sludge reactor basin, a secondary
clarifier, disk filters, and chlorine disinfection. The treatment system also includes
ancillary systems for pH adjustment and chemical feed for disinfection and de-
chlorination. For effluent discharge to North Fork Calaveras River, all unit processes
are needed, except for the trickling filter. For discharge to the DLDA, no nitrification
is required. Therefore, the reactor basins, disk filters, pH control system, and de-
chlorination can be taken offline to reduce costs and salt addition to the effluent.
Solids removed are treated by aerobic digestion, dewatered by filter press, and
disposed of by a contractor. The Facility has two storm water storage ponds.
The foregoing treatment system has a peak hour, day, and month treatment flow
limits of 1.9, 1.3, and 0.8 MGD, respectively. The ADWF capacity of the Facility is
0.32 MGD. Facility influent flows can exceed 1.9 MGD under severe precipitation
conditions. A portion of high influent flows (e.g., above the foregoing limits) may be
treated by the HFTS, which dischargers directly to Pond D, which is a part of the
DLDA. The HFTS consists of a separate chlorination point and contact device
downstream of the mechanical screen.
The DLDA consists of unlined effluent storage Pond D and approximately 30 acres
(seen in red in Figure B-2, Attachment B). The DLDA may be expanded, as needed,
into the blue areas shown in Figure B-2, Attachment B. Effluent is applied to the
DLDA land via sprinklers. The Discharger submitted a 1-in-100 Year Season Water
Balance to the Central Valley Water Board that forecasts the current sprinkler
disposal system and Pond D will be sufficient to meet the effluent storage and
disposal needs of the Facility when conditions in the North Fork Calaveras River do
not provide sufficient dilution to facilitate surface water discharge.
The primary method of effluent disposal is sprinkler irrigation to of DLDA land.
However, under high and/or persistent precipitation events, the DLDA’s shallow soils
become saturated, and therefore, cannot absorb effluent. During these events,
effluent is stored in Pond D and/or discharged to the North Fork Calaveras River in
quantities not exceeding a dilution ratio of 20:1 (receiving water to effluent). The
outfall to the North Fork Calaveras River consists of a 48-foot cross-stream diffuser
directly upstream of a concrete ford.
The Discharger treats primary sludge by means of digestion in the aerobic digester,
then dewatering by belt filter press. Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) is also digested
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 78]
SAN ANDREAS SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R5-2024-0025
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0079464
in the aerobic digester. The aerobic digester is designed to reduce the specific
oxygen uptake rate (SOUR) to less than 1.5 mg/L/hour. Dewatered sludge is placed
on the asphalt lined drying pad during dry-weather conditions to reduce the volume
of biosolids required for disposal. The Discharger currently contracts with Synagro, a
sustainable facilities management and environmental services provider, for biosolids
disposal. Synagro typically receives biosolids from the Facility 2-3 times/year.
Biosolids are applied to land by Synagro within six hours of removal to achieve
adequate vector attraction reduction. During any rainy season, biosolids are stored
under cover at the drying pad to prevent contaminated runoff. The District plans to
construct a new biosolids storage area closer to the belt press building for use
during the rainy season. This new area will reduce the labor required to manage
biosolids during the rainy season. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids
is regulated by USEPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
Storm water from the paved portion of the Facility is collected in Ponds B and C,
where it either evaporates or is conveyed to Pond D and discharged to the DLDA.
Storm water from the non-paved portion of the Facility is not collected but is
conveyed to San Andreas Creek through a system of storm water collection ditches.
Ponds B and C also accept tertiary or secondary wastewater during periods of
operational maintenance. All wastewater is chlorinated prior to discharge to the
ponds.
Water in Pond D can be returned to the treatment system for retreatment and
discharge to the North Fork Calaveras River, if/when appropriate. Effluent storage is
the most limiting aspect of this Facility; therefore, the Facility is operated to minimize
the accumulation of water in Pond D.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Facility is located in Section 18, T4N, R12E, MDB&M, as shown in
Attachment B, a part of this Order.
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point No. 001 to the
North Fork Calaveras River, a water of the United States and a tributary to the
New Hogan Reservoir at a point latitude 38° 12’ 39” N and longitude 120° 42’ 20”
W.
3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is working on an expansion of the chlorine contact basin, replacing
the antiquated headworks, and upgrading the irrigation pumping station (both
mechanical and electrical components). Other planned changes include constructing
a new biosolids storage area closer to the belt press building for use during the rainy
season.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to se