[Page 3]
8. Facility Description
Upon completion of plant upgrades, the Facility will be comprised of three components:
(1) collection system and head works, (2) secondary treatment system and (3)
percolation ponds. The Facility was originally a series of evaporation/oxidation ponds
constructed with compacted native soil bottoms. As the population grew, additional
ponds were added until today there are 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds, although they
are numbered 1 through 15 and 17. Currently, all influent is first discharged into one of
the ponds which serves as a treatment pond with aerators before going to the
remaining evaporation/oxidation ponds.
In 2007, the Discharger received a grant from the State Water Board to construct a
0.50 MGD tertiary wastewater treatment plant to produce recycled water that operated
from 2011 to 2015, after which the plant was placed in reserve status because the
Discharger had no recycled water customers, and therefore did not complete an
Engineering Report nor obtained water recycling requirements to produce and deliver
recycled water. The Discharger proceeded to shut down the tertiary treatment plant and
diverted all wastewater to the evaporation/oxidation ponds.
As a result of findings and time schedules contained in Board Order No.
R6V-2015-0069 to address pond leakage, the Discharger proposes to re-activate the
secondary treatment train of the 0.50 MGD plant, not operate the tertiary components,
and construct a larger, similar secondary treatment plant. Thus, instead of producing
tertiary treated recycled water, the Facility will produce secondary, denitrified effluent
and convert the two newest oxidation/evaporation Ponds 15 and 17, located south of
[Page 4]
Rosamond CSD - 5 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
the treatment facility, into a series of percolation ponds for effluent disposal, as shown
on Attachment B. The upgraded Facility will be comprised of the following components
and its treatment flow process illustrated in Attachment C.
a. Collection System and Head Works – To achieve optimal treatment quality, the
plant has a design flow rate of 1.27 MGD and it is estimated that the average daily
wastewater flow will be 1.18 MGD. The headworks consists of the influent pump
station, bar screen, and a grit removal/classification system. The bar screen is
operated as a traveling chain-and-link system that removes large solids. Screenings
are removed and disposed offsite periodically. Influent is pumped through a vortex
grit chamber at grade. Grit slurry collected in the vortex grit chamber is pumped to a
vortex grit separator and classifier for dewatering.
b. Septage Receiving Station and Holding Pond – Prior to Facility upgrades, septage
was delivered to evaporation/oxidation Pond 11. As part of the upgrade process, the
southwest side of existing Pond 11 will be converted into a septage receiving
station. Septage from the receiving station is passed through a coarse screen to
remove large solids before proceeding to an 80-mil high density polyethylene
(HDPE) lined septage holding pond. The aerated and mixed septage holding pond
will contain approximately 90,000 gallons of septage waste and have a top surface
area of 4,950 square feet at freeboard. Flows from the septage holding pond will
discharge to the headworks at a controlled rate where they will mix with incoming
influent and continue with the treatment process.
c. Secondary Treatment Plant –

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Proposed upgrades to the treatment plant will provide
secondary treatment that feeds influent from the headworks into two Biolac aeration
basins and two secondary clarifiers. Biolac is a propriety technology using a lined
basin, or pond, with a series of suspended aerators for extended aeration, activated
sludge treatment. Denitrification is achieved by creating a series of oxic and anoxic
zones within the basin. The Discharger is re-adjusting the flow capacity of the
existing Biolac basin to treat 0.35 MGD and constructing a new Biolac basin to treat
0.92 MGD for a combined total design flow of 1.27 MGD. The existing secondary
clarifier has a 45-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet while the new secondary
clarifier will have a 65-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet.
d. Evaporation/Oxidation Ponds – The existing 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds will be
used until upgrades are completed, tested, and successfully placed online. Some of
these ponds will be repurposed to serve as percolation ponds, septage receiving
pond, and emergency overflow pond. The remaining unused ponds will then be
abandoned. After sludge in these lagoons is sufficiently dry, all remaining sludge in
the lagoon bottoms will be removed and hauled offsite for proper disposal as
authorized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA).
e. Solids Handling – Waste sludge will be disposed into six new lined drying beds and
five of the six existing lined drying beds. One of the existing six beds will need to be
removed to make room for a new secondary clarifier. The six new beds will be
slightly larger to make up for the area lost by removing one of the existing beds.
Overall, the volume of the total beds will be double the volume of the current six
[Page 5]
Rosamond CSD - 6 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
existing beds. The existing beds are lined with 60-mil HDPE and the new be