[Page 75]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) that provides sewerage service to the City of Westmorland and
surrounding areas, which has a service population of approximately 2,400. The
wastewater treatment plant has a treatment (design) capacity of 0.5 MGD and is
located in the SW ¼ of Section 4, T13S, R13E, SBB&M24.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
Flow from the end of the collection system to the treatment plant is gravity-fed. The
collection system includes one wet well and two pumps with a capacity of 600
gpm25/pump. The Facility maintains another pump as a backup. The headworks
system includes a sewage grinder, a sewage pump station, a cyclone unit (for grit
removal), and an influent flow meter. The influent station does not include screening.
Flow from the headworks is conveyed to an oxidation ditch for activated sludge
generation. Following the oxidation ditch, wastewater is directed to a distribution box
that conveys flow to one of two 28-foot secondary clarifiers (one clarifier operates for
approximately 6 months before alternating to the other clarifier). Following treatment
in the secondary clarifiers, flow is sent through one of two chlorine contact basins,
one of which is on stand-by. The Facility disinfects wastewater using sodium
hypochlorite for chlorination and sodium bisulfite for dechlorination. Following
disinfection, effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001. The Facility does
not accept recreational vehicle (RV) waste.
24 San Bernardino Base & Meridian
25 Gallon per minute
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 76]
CITY OF WESTMORLAND ORDER R7-2023-0002
WESTMORLAND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0105007
Return activated sludge (RAS) and waste activated sludge (WAS) are pumped from
the two secondary clarifiers to one of four RAS/WAS pumps (only one pump is used
at a time).
The Facility includes six sludge drying beds, one of which (#1) is dedicated to scum
removed from the secondary clarifiers. The drying bed dedicated to solids removal
contains a drain that is connected to the plant headworks. Sludge is dried on-site for
one year and dried solids are transferred to a 40-cubic yard storage container for
removal off-site. Dried solids are tested prior to removal from the Facility. Final
disposal of biosolids is at the Imperial County Landfill.
Secondary treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Trifolium
Drain No. 6, a water of the United States.
2.B. Discharge Points

===PLANNED CHANGES===

