[Page 73]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) and provides service to an inmate population of approximately 3000
individuals located at the Centinela State Prison in Imperial County. The permitted
maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant which is 0.96 MGD. The Facility is located in the NE ½ of Section 36,
T15S, R11E, SBB&M20. The discharge from the Facility consists of disinfected
equivalent to secondary treated wastewater.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The current treatment system consists of an aerated lagoon system with four cells.
The Facility was last upgraded to increase the overall treatment capacity and to
improve treatment efficiency in 2009. The headworks is comprised of coarse
mechanical screening with a manual bar rack in the bypass channel. Two
submersible pumps equipped with variable frequency drives pump influent to the
treatment system. Influent flow is metered and passed through mechanical fine
screening prior to treatment through the four-cell aerated lagoon treatment system.
High efficiency aerators provide aeration to the wastewater in the cells. A transfer
piping system between the cells reduces the potential for short-circuiting in the
treatment process (i.e., direct pass-through from one cell to another without
receiving adequate/full designed treatment in the aeration lagoons). The auxiliary
20San Bernardino Base & Meridian
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 74]
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION ORDER R7-2024-0019
CENTINELA STATE PRISON WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA7000001
levee around the perimeter of the four treatment ponds provides 24 inches of
freeboard above the water surface. The Discharger may add sulfuric acid to the
chlorine chamber during summer months to control effluent pH concentrations from
exceeding the instantaneous maximum effluent limitation of 9 s.u.
Effluent treated through the four-cell aerated treatment system undergoes
disinfection by chlorination, followed by dechlorination. The disinfection system uses
liquid sodium hypochlorite for disinfection followed by liquid sodium bisulfite for
dechlorination prior to discharge through Discharge Point 001 to the Dixie Drain 1-C,
a water of the United States, and tributary to New River.
Accumulated inert solids and biosolids will be dredged from the bottom of each
lagoon cell annually and solar dried on two drying beds prior to being hauled off-site
for disposal to either a landfill or by a contractor for composting. Solids that have
accumulated on the bottom of the chlorination chamber are removed monthly and
dried on the sludge drying beds. Solids are removed from the site annually.
2.B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 32° 49’ 12”
North and Longitude 115° 46’ 12” West, to Dixie Drain 1-C, a water of the United
States, and tributary to New River.
2.C. Summary of Previous Requirements and Self-Monitoring (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order

===PLANNED CHANGES===

