[Page 8]
10. The Facility is currently designed to treat and discharge up to 10.9 million gallons
per day (MGD) of municipal wastewater. The process flow is shown in Figure 2,
made part of this Order by reference. The treatment system consists of the
following processes:
a. Preliminary Treatment: Preliminary treatment includes two automatic bar
screens. Large materials, such as rags and sticks, are removed by the bar
screen. The removed material is collected and disposed of at an approved
solid waste management facility.
b. Primary Treatment: Effluent from the influent pump station enters one of
two primary clarifiers, where solids settle to the bottom of the tank and are
removed. One clarifier is kept on standby full of water and ready for use if
the online clarifier fails. Grease and oils, which float to the surface, are
skimmed off and removed into a scum pit. Sludge, solids, and grit that
have settled to the bottom of the primary tank are then pumped to four
hydro gritters for grit removal and the sludge continues to gravity
thickeners for further concentration. The hydro gritters remove most of the
influent grit and inorganic matter.
c. Secondary Treatment: Secondary treatment includes four trickling filters
and six secondary clarifiers with both systems operating in parallel.
Effluent from the primary clarifiers is combined with recycled trickling filter
effluent or secondary effluent for dilution. The combined flow is then
pumped over the trickling filters where most of the soluble organic matter
is removed through absorption and utilization by the biological organisms
growing on the trickling filter media. Trickling filter effluent, along with
biological organisms that periodically slough off the media, flows to the
secondary clarifiers where suspended solids are removed before
discharge. Solids collected at the secondary clarifiers are pumped to a
GeoTracker ID: WDR100032535
WDID: 7A330114012
[Page 9]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2024-0009 3
CITY OF PALM SPRINGS
PALM SPRINGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
RIVERSIDE COUNTY
gravity thickener. The solids are then transferred to anaerobic digesters
for further treatment.
d. Solids Handling: All solids collected in the primary treatment and
secondary treatment processes are pumped to two gravity thickeners
where the solids are settled to increase the total solids concentration prior
to pumping to two anaerobic digesters. In the anaerobic digesters, organic
solids in the sludge are reduced through the biochemical reactions of
biological organisms. Methane and carbon dioxide are produced as a
result of the process. The methane is disposed of via a gas burner. The
digestion process is comprised of primary and secondary stages. In the
primary stage, most of the organic solids destruction takes place. In the
secondary stage, destruction continues, and the solids are stored and
concentrated. The solids are then drawn off into one of 26 sludge drying
beds where the solids are dried for several weeks. The dry solids
concentration of the sludge in the drying beds can be increased from
about 2.5 percent total solids to over 90 percent total solids. Although
solids can be dried to more than 90 percent total solids, the Facility
transports solids between 70 percent and 80 percent total solids to
mitigate dust. A belt filter press was installed in 2002 to allow for increased
solids dewatering capabilities during the cooler winter months, when
drying times are longer and the drying beds can reach capacity. Water
that is removed from the sludge in the solids handling processes is
collected and returned to the plant headworks for treatment. Dewatered
solids are stored in a concrete-lined impoundment area for eventual
removal by a biosolids hauling contractor for legally permitted composting
or land application.
e. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SCADA System: A Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system provides monitoring of
plant equipment and processes. The system utilizes a central computer
station, as well as remote Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) and
panel view units that allow key equipment and processes to be viewed
from various locations throughout the Facility. Operational trends are
monitored, and all flow and pond level data are saved to a permanent
archive. The system monitors equipment and sends alarms to operators if
problems are detected.
f. Backup Power: Back-up power is available for all treatment processes.
11. A large portion of the Facility’s effluent is conveyed offsite to the Desert Water
Agency (DWA) Wastewater Reclamation Plant (WRP), where it is subjected to
GeoTracker ID: WDR100032535
WDID: 7A330114012
[Page 10]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R7-2024-0009 4
CITY OF PALM SPRINGS
PALM SPRINGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
RIVERSIDE COUNTY
filtration and disinfection (i.e., tertiary treatment) and ultimately applied as
recycled water for landscape and golf course greens. The WRP is separately
regulated under Order R7-2014-0008, which also proscribes Water Recycling
Requirements (WRRs) for offsite applications. This Order does not apply to, or
otherwise address, WRP-related operations, discharges or water recycling
applications.
12. The effluent that is not conveyed offsite for tertiary treatment (discussed below) is
discharged to six unlined evaporation/percolation ponds, totaling 23.3 acres, as
depicted in Figure 3 of Attachment B. For the purposes of this Order, these six
onsite ponds are collectively referred to as the “Designated Disposal Area.”
13. The effluent discharged to the evaporation/percolation ponds is rotated from
pond to pond on a frequency that does not exceed seven days for each pond.
Following the use of an evaporation/percolation pond for disposal of treated
wastewater, the Discharger performs maintenance for sludge control and soil
scarification to maximize percolation and minimize evaporation, which reduces
the increase in salinity of the ponded treated wastewater. Measuring depth
indicators were installed to indicate the freeboard of the ponds. The ponds are
monitored for dissolved oxygen and pH when the pond level is one foot deep or
higher.
14. Water conservation measures in the community have significantly reduced
influent flow to the Facility. The quantity of wastewater treated has declined from
about 8.8 MGD in 1993 to about 4.7 MGD in 2022.
15. The Discharger’s Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs) from July 2018 through August
2023 characterize the Facility influent as summarized in Table 1:
Table 1.

[Page 12]
19. Beginning in 2020, as part of its CIP, plant upgrades have been undertaken to
improve the reliability and longevity of the existing plant processes. The
upgrades include water system and monitored fire protection upgrades. A new
concrete lined sludge holding area was built to store dried sludge; the holding
area is equipped with drains to capture liquids. By 2024, the #2 Digester will be
replaced with a new digester of equal size with a fixed lid. The new Digester will
have a membrane storage sphere for gas storage. Additionally, a new waste gas
burner will be installed. Planned CIP within the next five years include the East
Tahquitz Canyon Way sewer upsizing, the addition of a third pump to #1 Lift
Station, a new lift station on Bogart Trail, realignment of the Mesquite Avenue
sewer main, fixed cover inspection and possible interior coating of Digester #1,
and a new upgraded sludge bed filtrate pump station. The second priority CIP
includes secondary clarifier upgrades, general site work and pavement
replacement, and the construction of a new access road with signalized access
from Gene Autry Road. The third priority CIP includes installation of a new third
digester, a fats, oils, and grease receiving station, a digester gas treatment
system, and a fuel cell. Fourth priority projects include the construction of a new
administration building and upsizing for the Crossley Road, Indian Canyon Drive,
and Palm Canyon Drive collection systems.
20. Water conservation measures in the community have significantly reduced
influent flow to the Facility. The quantity of wastewater treated may continue to
decline.
21. Changes

===PLANNED CHANGES===

