[Page 157]
2. Facility Description
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant
The J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant is located at 34156 Del Obispo
Street, Dana Point, California and provides wastewater treatment to a population
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
[Page 158]
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9-2022-0005 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2024-0005
SAN JUAN CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107417
of approximately 120,000 residents8 within the service area/boundaries of the
City of San Juan Capistrano, SCWD, and SMWD. During times of off-peak
influent flows, the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant also receives dry-
weather runoff flows. The J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant also may
receive flows diverted from the Oso Creek WRP when the Oso Creek WRP is not
producing recycled water.
As shown in the process schematic in Attachment C, the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant provides secondary treatment through parallel 4-
MGD and 9-MGD treatment trains. The 4-MGD treatment train handles
wastewater flow from the Dana Point Interceptor. The 9-MGD treatment train
handles wastewater flows conveyed via the Oso Creek and San Juan Creek
Interceptors. Wastewater treatment processes for both treatment trains include
screening, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, and secondary treatment
with activated sludge aeration and secondary sedimentation.
Solids processing at the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant includes
thickening (secondary sludge), anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering.
Grit and screenings from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment Plant are
hauled to a sanitary landfill, and dewatered biosolids from the J.B. Latham
Wastewater Treatment Plant are hauled to either a sanitary landfill or a
contractor-operated compost site.
Secondary-treated wastewater from the J.B. Latham Wastewater Treatment
Plant is discharged directly to the SJCOO under this Order. From February 2019
to January 20

===PLANNED CHANGES===

