[Page 1]
2. EXISTING FACILITY AND DISCHARGE DESCRIPTION
The Sheridan WWTP is owned and operated by the County of Placer Department of Facility
Services (hereafter “Discharger”) and is located at E Street, Sheridan, in Placer County as
shown on Attachment A, which is attached hereto and made part of this NOA by reference. The
site plan is shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this NOA by
reference. The facility is located on approximately 60 acres in the unincorporated area of
western Placer County. The closest drinking water well is over 600 feet northeast of the WWTP.
The Sheridan WWTP treats municipal wastewater from the community of Sheridan. The plant
serves 221 dwelling units including four commercial structures, a school, a thirteen unit mobile
home park, and single family houses. Wastewater in the collection system generally drains to
the south, where flows are collected in the influent lift station. The lift station transfers
wastewater from the gravity system to a forcemain that terminates at the WWTP.
The WWTP consists of two, clay lined treatment ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) and two seasonal
storage reservoirs (SSR1 and SSR2). Pond 1 is an aeration pond for biological removal and
settling of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and Pond 2 is a polishing pond for further solids
settling. Raw wastewater is first pumped into the primary treatment pond, Pond 1, which is
divided by a baffle into Pond 1A and 1B. In Pond 1A, one 10-hp aerator and one 5-hp aerator
are used to promote oxidation of organic matter and reduction in BOD. Flow is directed from
Pond 1A to Pond 1B where a 5-hp aerator is used for additional aeration. From Pond 1B the
water is directed to Pond 2 for settling of solids. From Pond 2, treated water is directed through
the chlorine contact pipe, where chlorine is added to destroy pathogenic bacteria and to aid in
odor control. SSR1 is clay lined and SSR2 is lined with a 60 mil HDPE liner. Chlorinated
secondary effluent is then pumped to either SSR 1 or to SSR 2, which are equipped with
floating irrigation pump stations to deliver treated water to the sprayfields. During the winter
months, SSR 1 is also available to provide addition

===PLANNED CHANGES===

