[Page 72]
0046. The following table summarizes the violations of effluent limitations based on data
collected from September 2012 through September 2017. The majority of the violations are
related to issues with an overworked secondary treatment system. The Discharger is actively
pursuing a redundancy project that will enable it to maintain the secondary treatment process.
The expectation is that by adding redundancy to the secondary treatment process, the
Discharger will be better able to control biological sloughing from the fixed-film bioreactor and
therefore reduce disinfection and total suspended solids violations. Additionally, the
Discharger has improved the disinfection system monitoring to provide for better control of
chlorine dosing. These improvements have decreased the incidence of fecal coliform
violations in recent Facility operations. Please see the Planned Changes section below for
additional details on the redundancy project.
Table F-5. Compliance Summary
Date of
Violation Description
Violation
Fecal Coliform Daily Maximum limit is 2,000 MPN/100 mL and reported value was 3,500
9/12/2012
MPN/100 mL.
Fecal Coliform Dail

[Page 73]
E. Planned Changes
The Discharger has a planned project to address the lack of redundancy in its secondary
treatment processes. Currently, the existing treatment plant cannot meet effluent limits at the
permitted design flow if the fixed film reactor or secondary clarifiers are out of service because
there is no backup, or redundant, system for either process. To address this issue, previous Order
No. R3-2009-0046 anticipated the addition of redundancy infrastructure to be installed so that
critical components can be removed from service for routine maintenance or repairs or be shut
down in case of mechanical failure or emergency, without risking violation of ef

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has a planned project to address the lack of redundancy in its secondary
treatment processes. Currently, the existing treatment plant cannot meet effluent limits at the
permitted design flow if the fixed film reactor or secondary clarifiers are out of service because
there is no backup, or redundant, system for either process. To address this issue, previous Order
No. R3-2009-0046 anticipated the addition of redundancy infrastructure to be installed so that
critical components can be removed from service for routine maintenance or repairs or be shut
down in case of mechanical failure or emergency, without risking violation of ef