[Page 59]
2. Collection System. The City of South San Francisco wastewater collection system and City
of San Bruno wastewater collection system are covered by this Order and convey wastewater
to the plant. The South San Francisco collection system consists of approximately 148 miles
of gravity sewers and force mains and seven pump stations. The San Bruno collection system
consists of approximately 77 miles of gravity sewers and force mains, 20 miles of lower
laterals, and six pump stations. The Town of Colma and City of Daly City operate satellite
collection systems that discharge transmit wastewater to the South San Francisco collection
system.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant receives untreated wastewater from three force main
pump stations. The influent flows through bar screens and two grit removal systems. During
normal dry weather operations, it is treated with ferric chloride and polymer for flocculation
and pumped to a flow splitter for distribution to primary clarifiers, where grease, floating
solids, and settable solids are removed.
The primary-treated wastewater typically flows by gravity to five aeration basins as two
separate flow streams. Another four aeration basins remain in stand-by mode. They are
scheduled for retrofitting and mainly used for wet weather flows. The wastewater is
combined in the aeration basins with return activated sludge from secondary clarifiers. It then
flows by gravity through the aeration basins to secondary clarifiers for sedimentation and
floating solids removal. During wet weather, when influent flow greatly exceeds the peak
secondary treatment design capacity (currently 30 MGD), primary effluent may be routed
around the aeration basins and secondary clarifiers and blended with secondary-treated
effluent. These bypasses are subject to Discharge Prohibition III.C of this Order and
Attachment D section I.G.
The secondary-treated wastewater flows by gravity to two chlorine contact basins where it is
mixed with sodium hypochlorite for disinfection. After disinfection, it flows by gravity to the
NBSU effluent pumping station wet well (Discharge Point No. 001), where it is blended with
chlorinated effluent from the cities of Burlingame and Millbrae, and the San Francisco
International Airport. It is then mixed with sodium bisulfite to neutralize the residual
chlorine. The combined effluent is pumped through the NBSU outfall (Discharge Point
No. 002) and discharged to Lower San Francisco Bay about one mile offshore from Oyster
Point.
The flow schematic in Attachment C shows these steps. The plant has an average dry weather
capacity of 13 MGD and a peak wet weather capacity of 62 MGD. From June 2014 through
October 2018, the

[Page 60]
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity and
mechanical thickeners or waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters,
and belt filter presses for dewatering. The digested and dewatered biosolids are hauled offsite
to a permitted landfill.
5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the plant is collected and directed to the
headworks for treatment; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are necessary.
B. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
Treated effluent flows through the 60-inch NBSU forcemain into Lower San Francisco Bay at
Discharge Point No. 002 via a 620-foot diffuser composed of 66 ports (3-inch diameter) spaced
7 feet apart and 28 ports (2.8-inch diameter) spaced 6 feet apart. The location of the outfall i

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger is planning the projects summarized below to reduce wet weather bypasses.
These projects were originally set for the previous order term but were delayed due to design
changes and funding. The Discharger may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement the changes. The Discharger plans to complete the following
projects by 2022:
• Reestablish a sewer lateral program for the city of South San Francisco to inspect and repair
private sewer laterals during point of sale and evaluate the feasibility of providing financial
assistance to property owners for private sewer lateral repair or replacement;
• Improve electrical reliability by replacing the generator and switchgear, replacing elevated
bus duct, and installing a new generator building;
• Replace two old digesters with a single recuperative thickening digester;
• Rehabilitate and repair the bar screen bypass, motorized operators at flow split, and the
blower building;
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9
[Page 64]
Cities of South San Francisco and San Bruno and NBSU Order No. R2-2019-0021
South San Francisco / San Bruno Water Quality Control Plant NPDES No. CA0038130
• Construct a new secondary clarifier and increase secondary capacity from 30 MGD to 40
MGD; and
• Rehabilitate aeration basins for use during wet weather flows.
This Order authorizes these changes subject to conditions set forth in Provision VI.C.5.c.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code article 4, chapter 4, division 7
(commencing with § 13260) for discharges to waters of the State. This Order is also issued
pursuant to C