[Page 107]
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Treatment at the TIWRP consists of wastewater processing, advanced wastewater
treatment processing, and biosolids processing. The process flow diagram of the
TIWRP is depicted in Attachment C.
2.1.2. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment:
a. Wastewater Processing – consists of preliminary treatment (bar screening and
aerated grit removal), primary treatment (primary sedimentation), secondary
treatment (secondary clarification and activated sludge biological treatment), and
tertiary treatment (effluent filtration). Under normal operating conditions, the
discharge of the tertiary-treated effluent to the Harbor is not chlorinated.
i. Preliminary Treatment at Headworks – Removes coarse solids (by bar
screening), sand and silt (by grit removal system) from wastewater.
ii. Primary Sedimentation – Removes solids from the wastewater by gravity. The
heavier solids settle and are scraped out of the primary sedimentation basin.
The lighter solids float to the top and are skimmed off. However, some solids
remain in suspension.
iii. Activated Sludge Biological Treatment – Activated sludge consists of
microorganisms that consume non-settleable and dissolved organic
contaminants which form a settleable floc.
iv. Secondary Clarification – Removes biological floc from the wastewater which
then mostly becomes part of the waste sludge. Chemicals such as aluminum
sulfate (alum) may be added as part of the treatment process to encourage
floc formation and enhance solids removal.
v. Tertiary Treatment – The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream by passing the water
through a bed of graded granular material. Filters remove the solids that the
secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thus, improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8
Adopted: 6/10/2021
[Page 108]
City of Los Angeles ORDER R4-2021-0095
Terminal Island Water Reclamation Plant NPDES NO. CA0053856
b. Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) Processing – consists of a wet
well, a flow equalization basin, microfiltration, sulfuric acid addition, reverse
osmosis, pH stabilization, and UV/AOP disinfection.
i. Microfiltration Feedwater Wet Well – Tertiary treated wastewater is diverted to
this wet well. The effluent to the microfiltration station is pretreated with
sodium hypochlorite and aqua ammonia to prevent biofouling and then fed
into automatic self-cleaning 500-micron strainers.
ii. 2 Million Gallon Microfiltration Equalization Tank – This equalization tank is
adjacent to the Microfiltration Feedwater Wet Well and used to adjust the
water level of the Microfiltration Feedwater Wet Well.
iii. Microfiltration – The wastewater flow from the wet well is then split into two
parallel trains, containing eighteen (18) parallel Memcor microfiltration units in
total. The microfiltration units are periodically backwashed to clean the
membranes and that backwash is sent back to TIWRP’s headworks for
reprocessing.
iv. Reverse Osmosis (RO) – Prior to entering the RO process train, the pH of the
treated water from the microfiltration units may need to be adjusted with
sulfuric acid to protect the RO filters from calcium carbonate precipitation. The
microfiltration filtrate is then fed into two separate RO process trains. Each
RO process train has two stages in series and use thin-filmed membranes.
Ammonia is added into RO permeate before entering the AOP. The ammonia
is used to reduce bromate formation through AOP.
v. UV/AOP Disinfection – The AOP includes two (2) low-pressure ultraviolet
(UV) irradiation trains and hypochlorous acid addition. The AOP is used to
disinfect RO permeate and destroy some constituents of emerging concern
(CECs) that pass through RO membranes due to their low molecular weight
and low ionic charge. The treated water from the RO units is additionally
disinfected prior to being injected into the Dominguez Gap Seawater Intrusion
Barrier or any other permitted reuse.
vi. AWPF Pumping Station – The AOP effluent is stabilized and then distributed
from the AWPF Pumping Station. Sodium hydroxide and calcium chloride are
added in the Stabiliza

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Sludge Blending Tank blends primary sludge and thickened waste activated sludge
before it goes to the anaerobic digesters. The Sludge Blending Tank is currently in a
temporary configuration due to a failure of the center mixing shaft’s drive gearbox. The
Discharger is temporarily using a pump for mixing in this tank until the gearbox is
repaired or replaced. There are currently no planned changes to the treatment system.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are b