[Page 51]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant provides secondary and
advanced secondary treatment of domestic and commercial wastewater from
the Town of Yountville and California Veterans Home. Its estimated service
area population is approximately 2,900 people.
The Town owns and operates 8.5 miles of gravity sewer lines, 0.75 miles of
force main sewer lines, and one pump station. The California Veterans Home is
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 52]
Town of Yountville Order R2-2020-0026
Town of Yountville Wastewater Reclamation Facility NPDES Permit CA0038121
responsible for maintaining the collection system on its property, which is
owned by the State of California Department of Veterans Affairs.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The permitted average dry weather design treatment
capacity of the plant is 0.55 MGD. The Town’s 1996 capacity study indicated
that the plant’s actual average dry weather capacity is 0.65 MGD (Wastewater
Treatment Plant Facility Upgrade Study for the Town of Yountville, March
1996), however, this Order maintains the originally authorized average dry
weather design flow. The peak wet weather capacity is 2.0 MGD; flows in
excess of this are stored in a 3.8-million-gallon flow equalization pond for later
treatment. The pond is lined with compacted clay soil from nearby areas.
The treatment process consists of aerated grit removal, solids grinding using a
comminutor, primary clarification, first-stage trickling filtration, intermediate
clarification, second-stage trickling filtration, aerated solids contact, coagulation
and flocculation, final sedimentation, compressible media filtration, disinfection
using sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. In the
future, the Discharger may transition from chlorine disinfection to ozone
disinfection (see provision 6.3.5.1 of the Order). Treated wastewater flows to a
2.7-million-gallon effluent storage pond prior to recycling or discharge to the
Napa River.
The design capacity of the compressible media filtration system (Fuzzy Filter) is
1.3 MGD. When influent flow exceeds the filter capacity, the filter is taken
offline; secondary-treated flow is disinfected, routed through the effluent storage
pond, and discharged to the Napa River. When influent flow drops below
1.3 MGD, the filters are put back online. Routing treated wastewater in this
manner is not considered a bypass subject to Discharge Prohibition 3.3 of the
Order, as explained in Fact Sheet section 4.1.1.4.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Biosolids from the various process units
are returned to the primary clarifier, which operates as an initial sludge
thickener. The commingled sludge from these processes is then pumped to a
Dissolved Air Flotation Thickener (DAFT), processed in primary and secondary
sludge digesters, and applied to sludge drying beds. Typically, fewer than 100
tons of dried biosolids are hauled annually to the Clover Flat Landfill for
disposal.
2.1.4. Stormwater Management. Most of the Facility area is unpaved, allowing
stormwater to infiltrate to soil. Runoff from paved areas, and any runoff from
unpaved areas, drains to Hinman Creek. The Discharger maintains coverage
for its stormwater discharges through enrollment in

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. The Discharger plans to complete several projects within the
next five years, including control system software upgrades, effluent holding pond
improvements, primary trickling filter media replacement, and construction of a
centralized control room to monitor plant processes. Additionally, the Discharger
may transition from chlorine disinfection to ozone disinfection to reduce the
production of disinfection byproducts in treated effluent.
These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only and are not
requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to ensuring
Facility reliability.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities. This