[Page 3]
6. To ensure that your submittals are routed to the appropriate staff, the
following information block should be included in any email used to transmit documents to this
office: Program: Non-15, WDID: 5C550705001, Facility Name: New Melones Lake Tuttletown
Recreation Area Order: 2014-0153-DWQ-R5254.
To conserve paper and reduce mailing costs, a paper copy of the General Order has been sent
only to the Discharger. Others are advised that the General Order is available on the State
Water Board's web site at:
[Page 4]

[Page 5]

[Page 6]
Clay Rodgers - 2 - 21 June 2018
Assistant Executive Officer
Each of these eight locations has a holding tank. The holding tanks fill and then overflow to the
nearest lift station. There are five lift stations. Lift stations 3 (TT3), 5 (TT5), 6 (TT6), and 7
(TT7) pump to lift station number 1 (TT1). TT1 pumps all the wastewater to two, lined
evaporation ponds, in series. The Facility is designed with the capability to disinfect the final
effluent and employ spray irrigation of the treated effluent. In practice, the lagoons have only
been used as evaporation ponds. The spray irrigation system has never been used since the
creation of the wastewater treatment system in 1984. The evaporation ponds are discussed in
further detail below.
The wastewater treatment system serves 161 campsites. From the terminal lift station (TT1),
wastewater is pumped to the first lagoon of the wastewater treatment system. The design flow
for the evaporation ponds is approximately 20,000 gallons per day (gpd). The actual flows for
recent years were estimated by the Discharger to be 400 gpd for calendar year (CY) 2014; 600
gpd for CY 2015; 800 gpd for CY 2016; and 8,000 gpd for CY 2017. There are 2.61 miles of
force main and 1.29 miles of gravity sewer in this system.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Discharger constructed the existing wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system
in 1984. In calendar year 2004, the two existing wastewater treatment lagoons were cleaned
and lined with 60-mil high density polyethylene (HDPE) geomembrane. The expected life of the
liner is 25 years. The piping was modified to provide series operation, reduce short-circuiting,
and provide the ability to isolate either lagoon for cleaning.
Order 87-084, Prohibition A.3 prohibits public contact with the wastewater. Public access is
restricted by a six-foot high chain-link fence, with barbed wire on top, around the evaporation
ponds. A portion of the spray irrigation area has a barbed-wire fence on the perimeter. There is
a locked gate on the access road leading into the Facility and a second locked gate at the
entrance to the Facility. The gates and the chain-link fencing have “No Trespassing” signs.
The wastewater treatment system is designed to function as follows. At a two-foot freeboard
level, elevation of 1,299 feet above sea level, the volume/surface area of water in each lagoon
is 757,317 gallons/29,656 square feet. During operation, both lagoons have a maximum
operation depth of four (4) feet with a minimum freeboard of 2.0 feet. The amount of extra
wastewater that can be stored in the two-foot freeboard zone is 927,000 gallons. When the
water level in Lagoon #1 is greater than the elevation 1,298.5 feet, treated water flows to
Lagoon #2 through a 12-inch diameter pipe between the lagoons. There are two, five-
horsepower aerators for Lagoon #1, which have not been used since at least 2004, when the
ponds were lined with the HDPE geomembrane.
The Facility is designed such that the sprayfields would be utilized when the elevation in Lagoon
#2 is greater than 1,297 feet (two feet deep in Lagoon #2). The total area of sprayfields is 3.1
acres. There are seven groundwater monitoring wells around the ponds and the spray irrigation
site. The quality of groundwater from the monitoring wells was tested in July 2005. They have
not been tested since inception because the spray irrigation system has not been used. At this
time, the Discharger does not propose to harvest a crop on the sprayfield. Before discharge to
the spray field, the effluent can be disinfected using a hypochlorination injection system, which
can be adjusted by the operator to inject the required liquid hypochlorite to provide a minimum
residual of 1 mg/L at the furthest sprinkler head. If wastewater was to approach overtopping the
lagoon, the Facility would activate its wastewater contingency plan. The contingency plan is to
[Page 7]
Clay Rodgers - 3 - 21 June 2018
Assistant Executive Officer
shut down the restrooms and/or begin pumping wastewater into 3,600-gallon trucks that will
convey the water to the nearest publicly-owned treatment works for disposal.
A Recreational Vehicle (RV) dump station is also located at the recreation area. As needed, the
RV dump station is pumped out and the solids/liquids are hauled to the evaporation ponds. Fish
cleaning solids are taken to the Tuolumne County Utility District biosolids facility.
The bottom of the evaporation ponds is at approximately 1,295-foot in elevation. The
groundwater level, measured in the monitoring wells around the evaporation ponds and
sprayfields on 7 December 2017, was 26 to 95 feet below the bottom of the evaporation ponds.
Based on the Facility’s design capacity, the appropriate flow limitation for the Facility is 20,000
gpd. In accordance with the requirements of the General Order, discharges with flow rates less
than 20,000 gpd are not required to meet a nitrogen effluent limitation.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the General
Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring,
• Pond System Monitoring,
• Recreational Vehicle Discharge Monitoring,
• Land Application Area Monitoring,
• Groundwater Monitoring, and
• Solids Disposal Monitoring
CV-SALTS
The Central Valley Water Board adopted Basin Plan amendments incorporating new programs
for addressing ongoing salt and nitrate accumulation in the Central Valley at its 31 May 2018
Board Meeting. These programs, once effective, co

===PLANNED CHANGES===

