[Page 12]
2017.
The Discharger proposes to replace the existing vault toilets at the Lower Mariposa
Grove with a new comfort station equipped with 10 flush toilets, three waterless urinals,
nine low-flow sinks, and an onsite WWfF consisting of a septic tank and pressure
distribution leachfield. Two new vault toilets are proposed for winter use. The flush
toilets will typically be operated from April through November, with vault toilets only in
use during the remaining months when visitor usage sharply declines. The Discharger
will truck vault toilet waste to its Wawona WWfF for treatment and disposal, which is
the current practice for waste disposal from the existing vault toilets. There will be no
RV waste collection facilities.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The proposed onsite WWTF will consist of a 20,000 gallon, two-chambered septic tank
with effluent filters; a 7,400-gallon dosing tank with two duplex, redundant pumping
units, pump control panel, timed-dose controls, and radio frequency based SCADA; a
15,000 gallon septic tank effluent emergency storage tank with a duplex, redundant
pump unit located in a nearby pump basin for controlled drainage of the tank contents
back into the dosing pump tank. The Discharger is also considering, as an alternative to
this aforementioned emergency storage, a 4,000 gallon storage tank that would be
emptied by pumper truck. That 4,000 gallon emergency storage tank satisfies the
minimum emergency storage requirement of the County EHS. The storage system will
be SCADA monitored.
The proposed leachfield will consist of 2,040 lineal feet of pressure distribution leach
trench. The OA-acre leachfield is constructed in two cells, each cell with its own 5-outlet
automatic, SCADA monitored distributing valve. Each cell consists of five zones and
each zone typically has two laterals. Each leachfield cell will have an inspection port in
each leachfield lateral for monitoring wastewater depth in the leach trenches.
[Page 13]
Lonnie M. Wass -3 - 23 July 2015
Lower Mariposa Grove .WVl!TF
Additionally, two groundwater monitoring wells, with groundwater elevation level-loggers
will be installed at the. base of each leachfield cell to measure depth to groundwater
fluctuations. The leachfield will be on the gently sloping hillside north of the comfort
station and parking areas. A small "V" shaped ditch will intercept uphill storm water
runoff and direct it around th~ sides of the leachfield.
The RWD indicates the anticipated average daily flow will be about 3,300 gallons per
day during most of the season, with the average increasing on Memorial Day to
4,400 gpd. The peak daily flow will be 7,360 gpd. In accordance with the requirements
of the General Order, discharges with flow rates less than 20,000 gpd are not required
to meet a nitrogen effluent limitation.
In May 2013, six soil

[Page 13]
In May 2013, six soil borings were advanced to depths of up to 31.5 feet, and
piezometers were installed in borings 8-2 and 8-6. The depth to water in the two
piezometers was monitored quarterly for one year (May 2014). 8-2 was installed to a
depth of 26 feet about 110 feet south of the leachfield, and about 15 feet in elevation
lower than the base of the leachfield. Groundwater was first encountered in 8-2 at 13
feet bgs in 8-2, but subsequently dropped to about 15.5 feet bgs. 8-6 was installed in
the center of the proposed leachfield to a depth of 26 feet .and was monitored for the
presence of groundwater quarterly for a year. Groundwater was not encountered in 8-6
in the year it was monitored.
Six test pits (P-3, P-4, and P-9 through P-12) were excavated within the leachfield area
and percolation tests were conducted in each. Percolation rates ranged from 1.2 to 5.0
minutes per inch (min/in). According to Table 5: Minimum Depth to Groundwater and
Minimum Soil Depth from the Bottom of Dispersal System of the General Order, the
minimum depth to groundwater requirement for percolation rates between 1 and 5
min/in is 20 feet bgs. While groundwater was not encountered in 8-6 (installed in the
proposed leachfield to a depth of 26 feet bgs), the Discharger will install
two-groundwater monitoring wells at the base of the proposed leachfield to measure
groundwater levels and to ensure the discharge meets the required setback.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
,Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the
General Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring,
• Subsurface Disposal Area,
• Depth to Groundwater Measurements,
• Reporting.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

