[Page 106]
2. Wastewater Treatment Facility
The current Facility provides advanced wastewater treatment (AWT) and has design
capacities of 2.25 mgd as an average dry weather flow (ADWF) and 7.2 mgd as a
peak weekly wet weather flow. The wastewater treatment facilities include biological
secondary treatment utilizing extended air activated sludge aeration basins and
secondary clarifiers; AWT that includes chemical addition facilities, flocculation
tanks, AWT clarifiers, and sand filters; ultraviolet (UV) disinfection; and storage prior
to water recycling, discharge to the Geysers recharge pipeline, and/or discharge to
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 107]
Order No. R1-2020-0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345
Mark West Creek. A portion of the treated and UV disinfected effluent is chlorinated
and transferred to Windsor High School for toilet flushing and landscape irrigation.
3. Effluent Storage
Advanced treated, UV disinfected effluent is discharged to effluent storage ponds
prior to distribution to the water reclamation system or to Mark West Creek. The
Permittee owns and operates six tertiary effluent storage ponds that provide 143.8
million gallons of storage capacity and two additional ponds that provide an added
20.2 million gallons of high flow storage volume when influent flows exceed the
treatment capacity of the treatment plant. This combined storage volume of 164
million gallon is designed to handle an ADWF of up to 1.9 mgd.
During the term of this permit, the Permittee plans to develop and implement a Joint
Use Program with the Airport-Larkfield-Wikiup Sanitation Zone (ALWSZ)

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Permittee conducted a study to identify projects to accommodate future growth,
comply with regulatory requirements, and maintain the operational condition of the
Facility. Based on the study recommendations, the Permittee is planning to implement
the following planned changes during the permit term:
1. Implement a Water Reclamation Facility (WRF) Influent Wet Well Screen Project to
add a new influent wet well screen upstream of the influent pumps and replace the
existing headworks grit classifier.
2. Replacement or rehabilitation of the existing headworks screen and washer-
compactor in 2022.
3. Rehabilitation and replacement of the existing aeration basin equipment in 2020.
The Permittee is also planning to develop and implement a Joint Use Program with the
ALWSZ, Sonoma County Water Agency, and City of Santa Rosa to enable transfer of
effluent and reuse and distribution of recycled water from the tertiary storage ponds
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-10
[Page 112]
Order No. R1-2020-0010
Windsor Water District
NPDES No. CA0023345
owned by the agencies to maximize recycling and minimize surface water discharges.
The transfers of disinfected tertiary recycled water may occur between the Permittee
and ALWSZ, Sonoma County Water Agency, and/or City of Santa Rosa’s tertiary
storage ponds and the Permittee’s recycled water distribution system. This Order
requires the Permittee to submit a report to the Regional Water Board Executive Officer
for approval that must include the final design details and operational modifications
required for implementation of the Joint Use Program. The report includes
documentation of California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) compliance, recycled
w