[Page 1]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s application for permit renewal,
monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous Order, and
other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The Manila CSD (hereinafter Discharger) owns and operates facilities for the
collection, treatment and disposal of municipal wastewater from the
unincorporated community of Manila. These facilities consist of a septic tank
effluent pump (STEP) collection system, grit removal, grinder pumps, pumping
station, metering vault, wet well, odor control, aerated lagoons, wetland treatment
cells and disposal in rapid infiltration basins (RIBs). The wastewater treatment
facility (Facility) was originally constructed in 1978, with additional improvements
made over the last 20 years including mechanical system upgrades, treatment
wetlands and rapid infiltration basins.
The STEP consists of 292 individual septic tanks for primary settling and treatment
with septic tank effluent pumped to aerated lagoons and wetland treatment cells
[Page 2]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 -
Manila CSD WWTF
Order No. R1-2023-0003
prior to disposal in the RIBs. Septage removed from the STEP septic tanks is
pumped and disposed of at a permitted facility.
The Discharger has applied to the State Water Resources Control Board Division
of Financial Assistance for grant funds for upgrades and repairs to the Facility.
The current upgrade project includes septic tank and riser repairs, pump
replacements, Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system
installation, septage holding tank, air relief valve replacements, piping
replacements, backup generator replacement, pond liner upgrades, pond aerator
modifications and new facility fencing.
The Facility is located on the north spit of Humboldt Bay on the Samoa Peninsula
between Humboldt Bay and the Pacific Ocean, as shown on Attachments A, B,
and C, incorporated herein and made part of this Order.
The Facility has a design average daily dry weather flow (ADDWF) of 0.140 mgd
and a design peak daily wet weather flow (PDWWF) of 0.350 mgd.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

