[Page 2]
II. FINDINGS
The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, North Coast Region
(hereinafter Regional Water Board), finds:
A. Basis and Rationale for Requirements
The Regional Water Board developed the requirements in this Order based on
information submitted as part of the Discharger’s previous application for permit
renewal, monitoring data submitted during the term of the Discharger’s previous
Order, and other available information.
B. Background and Facility Description
The City of Point Arena (hereinafter Discharger) is currently discharging pursuant to
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. R1-2003-0001. The renewal of these
waste discharge requirements is for the discharge up to 0.057 mgd, average
monthly flow, of treated wastewater from the City of Point Arena Wastewater
Treatment Facility (WWTF), hereinafter Facility. The Facility is a secondary
treatment facility designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 0.057 mgd and a
peak wet weather flow of 0.86 mgd.
The Facility services a population of approximately 445 residents, a school district of
approximately 600 students, and numerous commercial establishments within the
limits of the City of Point Arena. There are 184 actual lateral connections in the
collection system. The Facility consists of a gravity collection system, a lift station
located in the Arena Cove parking lot, a primary aerated facultative treatment pond,
a secondary facultative treatment pond, and chlorine disinfection. The treatment
ponds are made of Bentonite and air placed concrete, with 6-inch-thick walls and a
9-inch-thick bottom. They are operated in series with the capability to operate in
parallel or with either treatment pond out of service for maintenance or repairs.
Treated wastewater is discharged to four 17,000 square-foot or 0.40-acre
percolation ponds located on top of the south bluff off Bluff Top Road.
To assess the potential impact of the percolation ponds discharge to surface water
and groundwater quality, Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R1-2003-0001
included requirements for water quality monitoring of a domestic water supply well
located on a property neighboring the irrigation field (Thrift Well). Discharges to the
irrigation field ceased in 2011 and accordingly, monitoring requirements at this
location have been removed from this Order.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

