[Page 3]
15. The Trancas WPCP and its leach field dispersal systems are shown in Figures 1
and 2. Figure 3 shows the current process flow diagram (PFD) of the Trancas
WPCP. The treatment plant consists of the following key unit components.
· a headworks with a communitor;
· a bar screen;
· a Parshall flume with a flow meter/totalizer;
· an influent pump station;
· dual anoxic/extended aeration tanks;
· dual clarifiers;
· three-cell anthracite filter;
· a chlorine contact tank;
· an aerobic sludge digester;
· an effluent pump station; and
· instruments and controls.
16. As shown in Figure 3, the plant influent is conveyed to Trancas WPCP, where flow
is conveyed through a communitor with a manual bar screen bypass prior to being
measured at the influent Parshall flume flow meter. The influent flow is then
conveyed to an influent pump station, which additionally receives supernatant flow,
a result of the aerobic digester decanting process and filter backwash.
17. The influent flow is pumped to the biological treatment process via three constant
speed pumps. The biological treatment system is a packaged system which includes
two anoxic tanks, two aeration tanks, and two secondary clarifiers. Return activated
sludge is returned to the extended aeration tanks, and waste activated sludge is
wasted to the aerobic digester.
[Page 4]
Los Angeles County Order No. R4-2023-0294
Department of Public Works Page 5
Trancas Water Pollution Control Plant
18. Clarified effluent is conveyed to a three-cell anthracite filter system. Filtered effluent
is pumped from the filter process clearwell to the chlorine contact tank, where
chlorine is mixed with the filtered effluent via chemical metering pumps and a static
mixer prior to the chlorine contact tank. The current chlorine contact tanks were
originally rotating biological contactor tanks prior to being retrofitted to the current
chlorine contact tanks. Effluent from the chlorine contact tanks is then conveyed to
the effluent pump station, where it is pumped through a flow meter and ultimately
conveyed to one of the three leach fields on site.
19. The leach field dispersal system consists of three leach fields. The dimension of
each leach field is 75 feet long by 10 feet wide by 5 feet deep. The leach fields are
located approximately 330 feet away from Trancas Canyon Creek and
approximately 1,315 feet from the Pacific Ocean.
20. To meet the revised effluent limitations for coliform specified in this Order, the
existing chlorination process will need to be optimized and a new dechlorination unit
will need to be added prior to treated wastewater discharge to the leach field
consistent with Provisions, Section F.1.
21. Sludge generated from the plant goes into the sludge holding tank. The sludge is
hauled in tanker trucks to the City of Los Angeles Tillman Water Reclamation Plant
for treatment and disposal.
22. Trancas WPCP effluent water quality based on the self-monitoring reports (SMRs)
from January 2018 to June 2022 is summarized as follows:
Table 1. Effluent Wat

===PLANNED CHANGES===

