[Page 95]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Simi Valley WQCP is a tertiary wastewater treatment plant with a dry
weather design capacity of 12.5 MGD and serves an estimated population of
126,878 people. The Simi Valley WQCP receives wastewater from the City of
Simi Valley and unincorporated sections of Ventura County.
Pretreatment Program: The wastewater is a mixture of domestic wastewater
and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated pursuant to 40 CFR part 403. The
City of Simi Valley modified the City’s Pretreatment Program that includes
revision of Sewer Use Ordinance with local limits and an Enforcement Response
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted: 11/14/2019) F-4
[Page 96]
CITY OF SIMI VALLEY ORDER R4-2019-0135
SIMI VALLEY WATER QUALITY CONTROL PLANT NPDES NO. CA0055221
Plan. On June 2, 2011, the Regional Water Board adopted Order No. R4-2011-
0098 amending the NPDES Permit pretreatment program to include the above-
mentioned ordinance, local limits, and enforcement response plan. The
pretreatment program is still current because there are no substantial changes or
modifications to the program.
Treatment at the Simi Valley WQCP consists of primary sedimentation, activated
sludge biological treatment with nitrification and denitrification, secondary
sedimentation, dual media filtration, chlorination, and dechlorination. Treated
wastewater discharged to Arroyo Simi is dechlorinated but the effluent delivered
for reuse is not dechlorinated.
Sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant in the Simi Valley WQCP. The
disinfectant is dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber and
occasionally added prior to the filters to minimize algae growth. Additional
disinfectant may be dosed prior to the serpentine chlorine contact chamber. Prior
to discharge, sodium bisulfite is added to the treated effluent to remove residual
chlorine.
Primary sludge is anaerobically digested. Sewage solids (sludge) separated from
the wastewater are dewatered with a press and transported to Simi Valley
Landfill, Simi Valley, California.
Simi Valley WQCP has constructed a biological nutrient removal (BNR) system
with nitrification de-nitrification process (NDN) in order to achieve compliance
with the ammonia Basin Plan objectives. The system was completed and has
been in operation since September 2004. However, the NDN did not achieve the
design objectives for nitrate + nitrite as nitrogen. The Permittee modified the NDN
process and completed the modification on April 30, 2009.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Wate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

