[Page 6]
D. Evaporation tanks – Produced brine from the END desalination treatment is
discharged into nearby evaporation tanks. The tanks consist of above ground
galvanized steel tanks fitted with multiple non-woven membrane polyethylene
liners and a leak detection system, as shown in Figures 5 and 6. Each tank has
a rated storage capacity of 156,000 gallons. Each pond contains an operational
volume of 70,000 gallons, which accounts for the 6 inches of minimum level
and 2 feet of freeboard required. Level-detecting instrumentation is mounted to
each tank and wired to the local Programmable Local Controller (PLC) which
communicates to the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
system. In the event an instrument detects a high level, an alarm is transmitted
to notify the Operators to assess the system. In the event an instrument detects
a high-high level, the Desalination Treatment system is automatically
commanded to shut down.
i. The dimensions of each evaporation tank will be 83 feet by 56.34 feet and
4.75 feet.
ii. The liner system consists of two 36-mil geomembranes, and each liner is
supported by an 8-ounce geotextile liner. The bottom of the tank,
consisting of wire cables on earthen ground, will be covered with another
layer of geotextile and geomembrane of 30 mils or thicker, as shown in
Figure 6.
iii. Each tank is equipped with a downdraft floating evaporating blower that
produces boundary layer evaporation.
For operation, there is a weather station for monitoring local weather
conditions. The blowers are equipped with controls to ramp their speed
(capacities) up and down based on production, target brine concentration, and
weather conditions. During an Operator's weekly routine maintenance reviews,
each pond is inspected to verify production efficacy, brine composition, level,
and the system's integrity; particularly the liner assembly and its leak detection
system.
HYDROGEOLOGY AND GROUNDWATER
22. According to the Lower Santa Clara River Salt and Nutrient Management Plan dated
June 2015, the Piru basin is confined to the north by the Topatopa Mountains and
to the south by the Oak Ridge and Santa Sus

===PLANNED CHANGES===

