[Page 4]
3. FACILITY AND TREATMENT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
3.1. The Moorpark WRF (Attachment B.1) is located along California State Route 118, just
west of the Moorpark city limits, south of Los Angeles Avenue between Somis Road and
Hitch Boulevard (Latitude 34°16’00”, Longitude 118°56’00”), within the Federal
Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) flood zone with a 1-percent chance of a
flood occurring in a 24-hour period in any given year. The secondary treatment system
consists of gravity settling. Waste sludge is dewatered using a belt press, stockpiled
onsite, and hauled away to a licensed facility for composting.
3.2. The Moorpark WRF currently discharges up to 5.0 MGD of undisinfected secondary-
treated effluent to an array of 30 onsite unlined percolation/evaporation ponds, located
in and around Section 12, Township 2N, Range 20W, San Bernardino Base & Meridian
(Attachment C.3). During the summer, five to seven ponds are used to discharge an
average volume of 1.03 million gallons of undisinfected secondary-treated effluent per
day. In the winter, eight to ten ponds are used to discharge an average volume of 2.2
million gallons of undisinfected secondary-treated effluent per day, due to a lower
demand in recycled water and lower evapotranspiration rates. Historically, the
secondary-treated effluent discharged directly to the percolation ponds has not been
disinfected and has not been a requirement in the historical WDRs. Attachment C.1
depicts the current Process Flow Schematic of the Moorpark WRF. Undisinfected
secondary-treated effluent is either discharged to percolation ponds or it can receive
additional treatment (filtration and disinfection) so that it may be recycled or discharged
to surface waters. Excess disinfected tertiary recycled water may be discharged to
ponds one through seven, located at the east side of the plant, when the demand for
recycled water use is low. At the present time, that excess disinfected tertiary recycled
water cannot be discharged to ponds eight through thirty because there is no
Adopted WDRs/WRRs Order (04/27/2023) 5
[Page 5]
VENTURA COUNTY WATERWORKS DISTRICT NO. 1 ORDER R4-2023-0089
MOORPARK WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
infrastructure to convey the disinfected tertiary recycled water to the ponds located at
the west side of the plant.
3.3. Historically, during extreme wet-weather events, when the flow exceeded the percolation
capacity and the demand for reclamation was low, the effluent was discharged to Arroyo
Las Posas under an NPDES permit. Unlike the effluent discharged to the percolation
ponds, the effluent discharged to Arroyo Las Posas was filtered and disinfected (using
sodium hypochlorite) prior to discharge. VCWD requested termination of the NPDES
permit for the Moorpark WRF because it has not discharged to Arroyo Las Posas since
April 2002, and VCWD plans to eliminate the surface water discharge by maximizing
recycled water use and discharging the remaining treated effluent to its percolation
ponds. The Los Angeles Water Board concurs that there is no ongoing threat of
discharge to Arroyo Las Posas that would require an NPDES permit. On November 17,
2022, staff from the Los Angeles Water Board inspected the Moorpark WRF and
confirmed that the former outfall to Arroyo Las Posas was plugged with concrete and
that no discharge was taking place or could take place in the future.
3.4. Under exi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

