[Page 100]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
2.1.1. The Avalon WWTF is a secondary wastewater treatment plant with a dry weather
design capacity of 1.2 MGD. The Facility serves an estimated population of 4,000
people and receives untreated domestic and commercial wastewater from the City
of Avalon. The wastewater is a mix of fresh and seawater. The influent to the Avalon
WWTF is approximately 40% to 50% seawater that is used for toilet flushing in the
City of Avalon.
2.1.2. In addition, to protect water quality in Avalon Bay, the Facility also treats a portion
of the dry weather surface runoff and the first flush of storm water (first half hour of
rainfall), via low-flow diversions into the sewer collection system. This is an
intermittent system and only activates during dry weather and the first half hour of
rainfall events; it is not a combined sewer system. After the first half hour of rainfall,
the system is designed to redirect runoff to the storm drains, which convey
stormwater to the ocean.
2.1.3. Wastewater treatment at the Facility consists of a rotating screen for removal of
large particles, an aerated grit unit, a trickling filter and activated sludge reactors for
removal of organics, clarifiers for separation of solids, and a chlorination system for
disinfection. The trickling filter is typically only used during the summer. When the
trickling filter is online, approximately twenty percent of the influent flow is diverted
from the aerated grit unit to remove additional BOD and suspended solids from the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
ADOPTED: 5/23/2024 F-4
[Page 101]
CITY OF AVALON ORDER R4-2024-0253
AVALON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO.CA0054372
wastewater before combining with the remaining influent flow from the aerated grit
unit and entering the aeration tanks. The effluent is partially chlorinated with the
addition of sodium hypochlorite solution to maintain consistent compliance with the
receiving water bacterial standards. The final treated wastewater is discharged to
the Pacific Ocean, a water of the United States, through an ocean outfall off Pebbly
Beach. Solids separated at the rotating screen are sent to the Pebbly Beach Landfill,
regulated separately under Order No. R4-2016-0140. Waste sludge from activated
sludge reactors is aerobically digested, dewatered in a centrifuge, and dried in
sludge drying beds before being hauled to the Pebbly Beach Landfill.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The secondary-treated wastewater is discharged to Discharge Point 001 to the
Pacific Ocean off Pebbly Beach, approximately halfway between the Avalon WWTF
and Avalon Bay. The discharge pipe is one foot in diameter and extends 400 feet
offshore and 130 feet below the ocean surface (Latitude: 33.338611°N, Longitude:
118.311111°W).
2.2.2. The State

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Avalon WWTF’s chlorine contact basin deteriorated over the years and was in
danger of collapsing, creating a safety hazard to staff working at the Avalon WWTF
when doing routine cleaning and potentially causing water quality issues. For the
duration of the rehabilitation project for the chlorine contact basin (rehabilitation project),
the Discharger moved the sodium hypochlorite injection point from the chlorine contact
basin to the clarifier effluent common channel at the beginning of the bypass line and
collected routine grab samples 0.5 miles downstream of the Avalon WWTF at a street
manhole. The wastewater continued receiving the required chlorine contact time
because the chlorine contact basin provided approximately 25 minutes of contact time,
and the time it took the wastewater to travel to the manhole where grab samples were
collected was approximately 45 minutes. Wastewater was not dechlorinated prior to
discharge. The Discharger also collected composite samples for routine monitoring
along the entry point to the bypass line instead of at the end of the chlorine contact
basin. The bypass line was rated to convey up to 2.3 million gallons per day and the
daily average flow at the Avalon WWTF was approximately 0.5 MGD, so overloading of
the bypass line was not anticipated.
The rehabilitation project began on November 27, 2023, and was completed on January
10, 2024.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on