[Page 1]
The Facility’s existing wastewater system was permitted in 2001 by Marin County
Environmental Health Services and went into service in 2004. In early 2017, the Facility
began renovations oriented towards conversion from primarily office activities to
overnight guest and meeting accommodations. In connection with these renovations,
various upgrades in plumbing, water, and wastewater infrastructure were made to
incorporate water conserving fixtures, dual plumbing and water recycling facilities
(disinfected tertiary) for toilet/urinal flushing and landscape irrigation in selected areas.
The treatment system has a design capacity of 8,700 gallons per day (gpd). The original
wastewater system includes septic tanks for primary treatment, an intermittent (single
pass) sand filter for secondary treatment, and dual (200-percent capacity) pressure
distribution leachfields for subsurface dispersal of treated wastewater with a rated
capacity of 8,700 gpd.
The new water recycling facility is intended to augment the existing Facility wastewater
system, while retaining the existing wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
components and capacity. A new diversion pump system will route secondary-treated
water from the existing effluent transmission line (that runs to the summer leachfield) to
a new buried water recycling facility feed tank. Water level sensors in the water
recycling feed tank will control the on/off function of the diversion pump at the sand filter
effluent lift station. A redundant mechanical shutoff float valve on the inlet to the water
recycling facility feed tank will isolate the tank from additional inflow from the summer
leachfield transmission line when the tank is filled to its maximum capacity.
The water recycling facility consists of a filtration unit (automatic back-flushing cloth
media screen filter, Amiad Model AMF 36K), an ozonation unit (Delozone Genesis CD-
15), and storage tanks for batch chlorination to disinfect. Influent wastewater flow to the
water recycling facility will be controlled (on demand) through an inline filter feed pump
(booster pump) at the inlet to the filtration unit. The filter feed pump, in automatic mode,
will cycle on/off based on operating signals from continuous turbidity sensors and other
process equipment and sensors. Shut-off of the filter feed pump would suspend th

===PLANNED CHANGES===

