[Page 60]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The Discharger owns and operates the
wastewater treatment plant located at 1000 North Cabrillo Highway in Half
Moon Bay. The plant provides secondary treatment of domestic wastewater to a
population of approximately 26,000 through three satellite collection systems:
the City of Half Moon Bay, the Granada Community Services District, and the
Montara Water and Sanitary District. Attachment B shows a map of the Facility
area.
The collection system, also called the Intertie Pipeline System, is a separate
sewer system comprised of approximately 8 miles of force mains and gravity
interceptors, and three pump stations. The City of Half Moon Bay, the Montara
Water and Sanitary District, and the Granada Community Services District act
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-3
[Page 61]
Sewer Authority Mid-Coastside Order R2-2023-0002
Wastewater Treatment Plant and Intertie Pipeline System NPDES PermitCA0038598
independently under the direction of their governing boards, and own, operate,
and maintain the satellite sewer collection systems for their respective service
areas.
The plant has an average dry weather design capacity of 4 MGD and a peak
wet weather capacity of 15 MGD. In 2021, the average daily flow was
1.52 MGD. The Discharger does not anticipate needing to increase its permitted
flow within the next five years.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The Facility provides secondary treatment as
described below and as shown in the Process Flow Diagram in Attachment C.
The treatment process consists of screening, grit removal, primary clarification,
activated sludge aeration, secondary clarification, chlorination by sodium
hypochlorite, and dechlorination by sodium bisulfite.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. During the wastewater treatment
process, the primary basins collect settleable solids that are pumped to a rotary
drum thickener. The thickened solids are pumped to two anaerobic digesters.
Supernatant from the rotary drum thickener is returned back to the headworks.
Digested biosolids are dewatered via a belt filter press prior to landfill disposal.
2.1.4. Stormwater Management. The Discharger directs all onsite stormwater to the
plant headworks for treatment; therefore, coverage under the State Water
Board’s General NPDES Permit for Stormwater Dischargers Associated with
Industrial Activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001) is unnecessary.
2.1.5.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. The Discharger is evaluating development of a recycled
water treatment process, and this Order accounts for this potential project. (Use
of the recycled water would be governed by the State Water Board’s Water
Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use, Order 2016-0068-DDW.)
The Discharger would use ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis to further treat
secondary-treated effluent and provide ultraviolet disinfection. The Discharger
would route about 50 percent of its secondary-treated effluent through
ultrafiltration, and then about 50 percent of the ultrafiltration permeate through
reverse osmosis. Reject water from ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis would be
blended with the final effluent prior to discharge. The proposed recycled water
facility would require the following new facilities:
2.1.5.1. Secondary-treated effluent diversion pipeline to convey secondary-treated
effluent from the secondary clarifiers to the recycled water treatment system.
2.1.5.2. Secondary-treated effluent equalization basin to store secondary-treated
effluent and accommodate diurnal flow variations while providing a constant
influent flow to the recycled water treatment processes. The existing primary
clarifier No. 4 (currently unused) would be rehabilitated and have a total
volume of 160,000 gallons.
2.1.5.3. Membrane filtration to meet recycled water treatment requirements.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 62]
Sewer Authority Mid-Coastside Order R2-2023-0002
Wastewater Treatment Plant and Intertie Pipeline System NPDES PermitCA0038598
2.1.5.4 Conveyance to send reverse osmosis concentrate from recycled water
treatment to the existing ocean outfall for disposal.
2.1.5.5 Ultraviolet treatment to sterilize recycled water to protect public health and
meet regulatory requirements.
2.1.5.6 Recycled water storage to store the recycled water produced. Existing
Aeration Basin No. 2 would be rehabilitated and have a total volume of
260,000 gallons.
2.1.5.7 Recycled water pumps and distribution pipeline to connect to existing
facilities. Recycled water distribution pipeline will be constructed under
Pilarcitos Creek.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. Discharge of treated wastewater to the
Pacific Ocean is through a discharge pipe and submerged, multi-por