[Page 74]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The wastewater treatment plant is
located at 1301 Andersen Drive in San Rafael. It treats domestic, commercial,
and industrial wastewater for the City of San Rafael and its surrounding
communities, including San Quentin Prison. The population within the service
area is approximately 104,500 people. CMSA regulates two significant industrial
users that discharge to the Facility through its pretreatment program.
Attachment B shows the area around the Facility.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. CMSA provides secondary treatment as described
below and as shown in the Process Flow Diagram in Attachment C. Primary
treatment at CMSA includes chemical injection, screening, grit removal, and
primary clarification. After primary clarification, a portion of the wastewater is
routed to the high-rate trickling filters before the aeration basins, while the
remainder is routed directly from the primary clarifiers to the aeration basins.
From the aeration basins, the remaining treatment process consists of
secondary clarification, chlorine disinfection, and dechlorination with sodium
bisulfite.
During wet weather or plant upset, the treatment plant uses an onsite 7 MG
storage basin. Stored wastewater is conveyed to chlorine disinfection units for
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 75]
Central Marin Sanitation Agency Order R2-2023-0006
Central Marin Sanitation Agency Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0038628
discharge or routed back to the headworks for re-treatment (if needed). During
wet weather periods, primary-treated wastewater above 30 MGD is bypassed
around the biological treatment processes when necessary and blended with
the biologically-treated wastewater prior to disinfection.
2.1.3. Collection System. CMSA does not own any portion of the collection system. It
operates the force mains, the pump stations for Sanitary District No. 2 of Marin
County, and the wastewater collection system for the San Quentin Village
Sewer Maintenance District. All other portions of the collection system are
owned, operated, and maintained by the collection system agencies that route
sewage

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades. CMSA plans to complete the following projects during this
permit term. These changes are mentioned here for informational purposes only
and are not requirements of this Order, except to the extent that they pertain to
ensuring Facility reliability. Their inclusion here does not imply Regional Water
Board authorization. CMSA may need to obtain necessary permits or permit
modifications to implement these changes.
CMSA anticipates becoming fully energy self-sufficient and a regular energy
exporter by late 2023. In 2022, CMSA started operation and began
commissioning a newly installed 995-kilowatt cogeneration system. CMSA also
began expanding its organic waste receiving program. CMSA is currently
energy self-sufficient several days per week and sells excess renewable power
to Marin Clean Energy, the local electricity provider.
CMSA also plans to replace all three of its dewatering centrifuges during the
next permit term and to rehabilitate one of its secondary clarifiers in 2023.
CMSA rehabilitated the other secondary clarifiers during the previous permit
term.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. Treated wastewater is discharged to
Central San Francisco Bay through a submerged, multi-port diffuser, located
approximately 8,000 feet offshore (Discharge Point 001) at a depth of about 12 to
28 feet. The diffuser is oriented about 145 degrees clockwise from north and has
176 six-inch diameter ports fitted with duc