[Page 27]
General Order.
ad. Nuisance: Nuisance means anything which meets all of the following
requirements:
(1) Is injurious to health, or is indecent and offensive to the sense, or is an
obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property.
(2) Affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or
damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.
(3) Occurs during, or as a result of, the treatment or disposal of wastes.
ae. Pathogens: Disease causing agents including helminths, bacteria, viruses, and
protozoa.
af. Pathogen Reduction: Process used to destroy pathogenic material contained in
sewage sludge.
ag. Pollution: Means an alteration of the quality of the waters of the State by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects either of the following:
(1) The waters for beneficial uses.
(2) Facilities which serve these beneficial uses.
ah. Secondary Nutrients: The elements of calcium, magnesium, and sulfur.
ai. Septage: Waste material removed from a septic tank, cesspool, portable toilet,
Type III marine sanitation device, or similar wastewater handling device that
has not passed through a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
aj. Sewage Sludge: The solid, semisolid, or liquid residue generated during the
treatment of domestic sewage in a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
Sewage sludge includes solids removed or used during primary, secondary, or
advanced wastewater treatment processes. Sewage sludge does not include grit
[Page 28]
or screening material generated during preliminary treatment of domestic
sewage at a municipal wastewater treatment facility.
ak. Short-Term Storage: Biosolids storage sites used as a temporary holding
facility for less than or equal to seven days.
al. Silviculture: The practice, science, or art of managing, developing, and
harvesting forests and trees for human use.
am. Soil Amendment: Applications of a fertilizing material or agricultural mineral
for

===PLANNED CHANGES===

