[Page 22]
Fresno County Waterworks District #18 2 22 November 2022
Mira Bella OWTS
review of the RWD, and other provided documents, and the applicability of the Facility’s
discharge to be covered under the General Order.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Waterworks District No. 18 is an independent special district. Independent special
districts obtain their authority directly from the community they serve through a
governing body that serves independently from other government agencies. The
Discharger owns and operates the Facility, which is on Millerton Road, about
1.5 miles south southeast of the Friant Dam on Millerton Lake. Discharges to the OWTS
began in 2015 once home construction started for the community.
The Assessor’s Parcel Numbers (APN) for components of the system are summarized
in Table 1.
Table 1 – Assessor’s Parcel Numbers (APN)
Feature Assessor’s Parcel Number
Leach Field and 100% Back-up 300-021-68T
Septic Tanks, Lift Station, Stormwater
300-550-09T
Basins
The Facility receives domestic wastewater from 48 residential lots (48 of 58 lots had
been developed at the time the September 2021 RWD was submitted). The system is
designed for a flow of up to 17,400 gallons per day (gpd) based on 300 gallons per
home per day. There are no recreational vehicle (RV) waste connections and RV
waste discharge to the OWTS is not authorized.
Attachment C of the NOA is a process flow diagram which provides a schematic
overview of the facilities. Gravity sewer lines convey the wastewater to primary
clarification community septic tanks. The incoming wastewater feeds into a splitter
box, which separates the influent into two equivalent flow volumes. Each split flow is
conveyed through a series of two, 15,000-gallon septic tanks (total four septic tanks).
Following the septic tanks, wastewater is conveyed to a lift station with duplex pumps
(each pump rated at 95 gallons per minute at 142 feet total dynamic head). The
wastewater is discharged from the lift station to a leach field through a four-inch
diameter force main.
The leach field and 100% back-up area are located on a single parcel. A drainage
course runs through the parcel from the northwest to the south and divides the parcel
(see Attachment B of the NOA for a Site Plan Map). The primary leach field is on the
east side of the parcel. The 100% replacement area is on the west side of the parcel.
The leach field consists of six sub-areas that operate on a sequencing basis. Each
leach field sub-area contains 500 lineal feet of dosing line rock-filled trench. Trenches
are 6.5 feet deep with a width of 1.5 feet. The separation of the trenches is 20 feet.
[Page 23]
Fresno County Waterworks District #18 3 22 November 2022
Mira Bella OWTS
Both the primary leach field and the 100% back-up leach field are designed to meet
the required 50-foot separation between the leach field and the ephemeral stream.
Sludge was removed from the septic tanks from a qualified contractor in 2021. The
operator estimates that sludge will be removed once every five years.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
There is no known historical wastewater monitoring data for this facility. To help
determine underlying groundwater quality, Central Valley Water Board staff reviewed
available well data for nearby wells using the National Water Quality Monitoring

[Page 25]
Mira Bella OWTS
workplan dated 28 July 2008, was incomplete and requested a resubmittal of the
,
workplan by 6 October 2008.
Based on staff’s review, there is no record that a revised groundwater monitoring work
plan was submitted, and it does not appear groundwater monitoring wells have been
installed at the site. Therefore, the MRP should require the Discharger to submit a
revised groundwater monitoring work plan to install the appropriate amount of
monitoring wells around the leach field to characterize groundwater quality upgradient
and downgradient of the leach field.
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Monitoring requirements included in the following sections from Attachment C of the
General Order are appropriate for this discharge:
• Septic Tank Monitoring;
• Subsurface Disposal Area Monitoring;
• Solids Disposal Monitoring; and
• Groundwater Monitoring
NITROGEN LIMIT EVALUATION
The General Order requires that wastewater systems with a flow rate greater than
20,000 gallons per day be evaluated to determine if nitrogen effluent limits are required,
as described in Attachment 1 of the General Order. The design capacity for the facilit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

