[Page 53]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
This section provides information about existing Facility operations and planned
upgrades that the Discharger will complete during the permit term to comply with Cease
and Desist Order (CDO) R2-2014-0043, as amended by Order R2-2016-0019.
2.1. Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant provides secondary and
tertiary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater from the
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-3
[Page 54]
City of Calistoga Order R2-2022-0010
Calistoga City Dunaweal Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0037966
City of Calistoga. The population within the service area is approximately 5,300
people. The Discharger owns and operates about 18 miles sewer lines and four
pump stations. During dry weather, the plant’s capacity is 0.84 million gallons
per day (MGD), and its peak wet weather capacity is 4.0 MGD.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. The Facility treats its wastewater to tertiary or
secondary standards as described below and shown in the Process Flow
Diagram in Attachment C.
2.1.2.1. Discharge Point 001 Treatment Process. The tertiary wastewater
treatment process prior to discharge from Discharge Point 001 includes a bar
screen, two aeration basins, four clarifiers, three filters, a tertiary chlorine
contact basin, a tertiary effluent clearwell, and four Riverside Ponds that
operate in series. After secondary clarification, the Discharger adds sodium
hypochlorite and ammonium sulfate to the wastewater (chloramination) to
limit the production of trihalomethanes. Following chloramination, wastewater
is routed to filters, where polymer is added to improve solids removal or, if
the 1.5-MGD treatment capacity of the filters is exceeded, routed to the
secondary chlorine contact basin (see “Discharge Point 002 Treatment
Process” below). After filtration, wastewater is routed to the tertiary chlorine
contact basin. The Discharger adds sodium bisulfite in the tertiary effluent
clearwell prior to routing tertiary-treated wastewater to either the Riverside
Ponds or the 20-million-gallon Effluent Storage Pond. From the Riverside
Ponds, tertiary-treated wastewater is discharged via Discharge Point 001 to
the Napa River. Tertiary-treated wastewater stored in the 20-million-gallon
Effluent Storage Pond is routed to the Riverside Ponds when discharge
capacity is available.
2.1.2.2. Discharge Point 002 Treatment Process. The secondary wastewater
treatment process prior to discharge from Discharge Point 002 includes the
same bar screen, aeration basins, and clarifiers as described above, and a
secondary chlorine contact basin. After secondary clarification, wastewater
flow that exceeds the treatment capacity of the filters is routed to the
secondary chlorine contact basin, where the Discharger adds sodium
hypochlorite for disinfection. The Discharger adds sodium bisulfite to
dechlorinate the wastewater prior to discharge to the Napa River via
Discharge Point 002.
2.1.2.3. Discharge Point 003 Treatment Process. After Discharge Point 003 is
constructed and commences pursuant to Provision 6.3.5.2 of the Order, the
treatment process for Discharge Point 003 will be the same as for Discharge
Point 001, except following dechlorination in the tertiary effluent clearwell, the
effluent will be routed to the 20-million-gallon Effluent Storage Pond before
being discharged directly from the Effluent Storage Pond rather than pumped
to the Riverside Ponds.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 55]
City of Calistoga Order R2-2022-0010
Calistoga City Dunaweal Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES PermitCA0037966
2.1.2.4. Recycled Water Treatment Process. The tertiary treated wastewater used
for recycled water purposes undergoes the same treatment as described
above for Discharge Points 001 and 003, but it is directed from the tertiary
effluent clearwell to the Irrigation Storage Ponds before being sent for reuse.
This water does not flow through the Riverside Ponds or Effluent Storage
Pond and is not discharged pursuant to this permit.
2.1.3. Wastewater and Effluent Storage. The Discharger manages the following
wastewater and effluent storage ponds:
· One 5.6-million-gallon Flow Equalization Basin that enables it to collect and
store wastewater of any condition from all parts of the treatment plant if
needed;
· Four Riverside Ponds, in which it stores tertiary effluent prior to discharge
through Discharge Point 001 (in the future, the Riverside Ponds may be
reconfigured as two ponds);
· One 20-million-gallon Effluent Storage Pond containing effluent from the
tertiary effluent clearwell after disinfection and dechlorination (currently,
water in this storage pond is pumped to the Riverside Ponds prior to
discharge from Discharge Point 001. In the future, the Facility will directly
discharge from this pond to Discharge Point 003); and
· Two Irrigation Storage Ponds (with capacities of 10 and 16.4 million gallons)
that receive effluent from the tertiary effluent clearwell for recycled water
storage.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge that settles to the bottom of the
clarifiers is sent back to the primary distribution structure, located before the
aeration basins, or to a 72,000-gallon-capacity sludge holding tank and then to
the sludge drying beds. The Discharger hires a contractor to remove the sludge
for further treatment or land application (e.g., at the Potrero Hills Landfill or
agricultural sites in the Central Valley). A portion of the sludge undergoes
anaerobic digestion at the El Nido Composting Facility (Central Valley
Composting).
2.1.4. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the plant is collected and directed
to the plant’s equalization basin, from which it flows to the aeration basins for
treatment. Therefore, specific stormwater requirements are unnecessary.
2.1.5. Recycled Water. The Discharger supplies tertiary treated effluent for reuse as
dust control at construction sites and for landscaping and golf course irrigation.
Recycled Water is regulated under State Water Board Order WQ 2016-0068-
DDW as amended by WQ 2019-0037-EXEC.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 56

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Upgrades
Expected
Description
Completion Date
Install meters at the last significant geothermal water user, a spa, in
the service area to limit geothermal inflows to the Facility (required by April 1, 2023
CDO Provision 1, Table 1, Task c).
Rehabilitate or replace the Riverside Ponds (required by CDO
September 1, 2024
Provision 2).
Other upcoming Facility changes include installing a new screw press for
increased sludge dewatering and commencing tertiary effluent discharge from
Discharge Point 003.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters. This Order authorizes the plant to
discharge treated wastewater into the Napa River through up to three shallow
water outfalls (Discharge Points 001, 002, and 003) during wet weather when
irrigation fields are saturated. Discharge Points 001 and 003 are authorized to
discharge tertiary