[Page 86]
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Mountain House and
serves a population of approximately 21,750. The current design daily average flow
capacity of the Facility is 3.0 MGD, with plans to expand the capacity up to 5.4 MGD.
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The current treatment system consists of influent screening, grit removal, an anoxic
reactor for flow/load equalization and a carbon source for denitrification, sequencing
batch reactors (SBR’s) for biological treatment including nitrification and
denitrification, cloth media filtration, automated chemical feed, pre- and post-filtration
turbidity instrumentation, and an ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection system. The
Facility also includes two lined, aerated storage reservoirs for use during emergency
situations and during plant maintenance. The storage reservoirs have a capacity of
approximately 12 million gallons, which provide automatic short-term emergency
storage. Level and flow metering, aeration equipment, and discharge pumping
facilities are available to allow a metered return to the regular process stream.
Sludge handling at the Facility includes two stage aerobic digesters, a drum
thickener, and a centrifuge. Sludge supernatant is returned to the anoxic reactor.
Solids are collected in a truck and removed by a hauler (currently Synagro) for
disposal at a licensed biosolids facility. The Facility produces approximately 150 dry
metric tons of dried biosolids annually. Transportation and disposal/reuse of the
biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. part 503.
The Discharger has initiated construction of modifications and improvements to t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has initiated construction of modifications and improvements to the
Facility that will improve treatment reliability and produce effluent quality that meets
Title 22 recycled water applications, and increase the treatment capacity in the near-
term to 4.0 MGD ADWF, 6.8 MGD maximum daily flow, and 12.4 MGD peak hour
flow. The construction work is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. The
Discharger anticipates plant startup and attainment of operations to be completed by
early 2024. Facility improvements include installation of two new influent pumps,
new ultra-fine screening and grit removal headworks, replacing the SBRs with
MBRs, and upgrading the UV disinfection system. The capacity of the influent pump
station will be increased to 18 MGD to sustain peak wet weather flows.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code