[Page 2]
8. Raw wastewater is pumped to the WWRP through three main pumping stations
located throughout Rancho Murieta. The WWRP provides secondary and tertiary
treatment and disinfection. The treatment process systems are described below and
their locations are shown on Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of
this Order by reference.
a. The secondary wastewater treatment plant has a design flow of 1.55 mgd as an
average dry weather flow and 3.0 mgd as a peak wet weather flow. Secondary
treatment takes place in a series of five clay-lined aerated facultative ponds
(Aeration Ponds 1 through 4). Undisinfected secondary treated effluent is stored
in two clay-lined storage reservoirs (Reservoirs 1 and 2) with a combined storage
capacity of approximately 747 acre feet (AF) with 2 feet of freeboard prior to
[Page 3]
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS R5-2014-0149 4
RANCHO MURIETA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND RECLAMATION PLANT
SACRAMENTO COUNTY
tertiary treatment and disinfection. Wastewater is stored in the reservoirs during
the rainy season (typically between the months of October and March) until
needed for irrigation of the golf courses during the dry season. Solids are
removed from the treatment ponds and placed on drying beds prior to offsite
disposal. The sludge drying beds were reconstructed in 2002 with reinforced
concrete; prior to that time the beds were unlined.
b. Tertiary treatment and disinfection consists of two dissolved air floatation units,
two rapid sand filters, a chlorine gas feed system, chlorine contact basin, and
6,600 linear feet of chlorine contact pipe installed in a concrete lined equalization
basin. The design capacity of the tertiary treatment plant is 3.0 mgd and the
disinfection system has a design capacity of 2.3 mgd. Disinfected tertiary treated
wastewater is stored in the equalization basin prior to reuse. The tertiary
treatment plant is operated from April through November.
9. Disinfected tertiary treated wastewater is used to irrigate two 18-hole golf course
properties (250 acres) operated by the Rancho Murieta Country Club. The recycled
water is pumped to the golf course and stored in five unlined irrigation storage
reservoirs (Lake Ten, Lake Eleven, Lake Sixteen, Lake Seve

===PLANNED CHANGES===

