[Page 76]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates the Facility, a wastewater collection, treatment, and
disposal system, and provides service to a population of approximately 94,216
individuals located in the City of Indio. The Facility is located in SW ¼ of Section 19,
T5S, R8E, SBB&M25. The permitted maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the
design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant which is 12.5 MGD.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The wastewater treatment plant consists of two separate treatment systems: 1) an
activated sludge treatment system, and 2) an oxidation pond system.
Influent enters the main influent pumping station and is screened through
mechanical bar screens. Screened influent is directed to the grit chamber and then
to the primary clarifiers. Flow is then apportioned between the activated sludge
25San Bernardino Base & Meridian
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 77]
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2026-0003
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104477
system and the oxidation pond system.
The design capacity of the activated sludge system is 10 MGD. The activated sludge
treatment system consists of anoxic selectors, aeration basins, secondary clarifiers,
and a chlorine contact chamber.
The design capacity of the oxidation pond system is 2.5 MGD. The oxidation pond
system consists of two oxidation ponds and two cells.
Treated effluent from each treatment system (i.e., activated sludge and oxidation
pond system) is disinfected with sodium hypochlorite in separate chlorine contact
tanks. The chlorinated effluent from each chlorine contact tank is then combined and
dechlorinated with the addition of sodium bisulfite prior to discharge.
Screenings are removed from the influent wastewater using mechanical bar screens
and are sent to a grinder for washing and compaction prior to collection in a portable
dumpster. Grit removal occurs after the screening process and is placed in a
portable dumpster to be combined with the screening. The screening and grit
dumpster are hauled to a landfill weekly for disposal.
Excess solids from the activated sludge treatment system are pumped to a pond
system for stabilization. Primary sludge from the primary clarifiers is pumped to the
anaerobic digester. Solids from the anaerobic digester and oxidation ponds are
pumped to a belt press for dewatering. Dewatered solids are placed on drying beds
for further moisture reduction prior to disposal. Biosolids are continuously removed
from the facility site and are transported to Arizona for further treatment by
composting to ensure Class A requirements are met prior to land application.
Treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Coachella Valley
Storm Water Channel.
2.B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33°, 42', 59.6"
North and Longitude 116°, 11', 43.07" West, to the Coachella Valley Storm Water
Channel, a water of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge that there are planned
improvements at the Facility during the upcoming permit term and the subsequent
permit term. During the course of the current permit term, the Discharger has
initiated treatment plant upgrades identified in the Master Plan Update Project. It is
expected that during the next permit term, Phase 2b will be completed. Phase 2b
consists of the following:
· Rehabilitation of the Influent Pump Station.
· Addition of mechanical Bar Screen at headworks.
· Installation of a replacement grit chamber.
· Installation of waste activated sludge thickener.
· Addition of a second Digester and related systems (flare).
· Installation of a replacement electrical main switchboard.
· Addition of pump station to return sludge dewatering filtrate back to
headworks.
During the next permit term, the Master Plan will be updated and Phase 2c will
commence. Phase 2c consists of the following:
· Pond 2 and Pond 3 free water will drain and treated prior to discharge to the
Coachella Valley Stormwater Channel.
· Sludge from Pond 2 and Pond 3 will be dredged for solar drying.
· Construction of extension to sludge drying bed.
· Installation of digester gas holding facility (optional).
· Implementation of cogeneration with digester gas (optional).
The Master Plan update project will identify upgrades over the next 40 plus years.
Phase 2b and Phase 2c, when completed, will not increase the Facility's permitted
maximum daily flow capacity of 12.5 MGD, nor will the projects modify the treatment
process. Instead, the improvements will provide redundancy to current treatment
processes and allow the Discharger to begin the phasing out of the pond system in a
future phase of construction work.
F-12
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 84]
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R7-2026-0003
VALLEY SANITARY DISTRICT WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104477
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuan