[Page 67]
2. Design Characteristics
The treatment system consists of a primary equalization basin, influent screening, grit
removal, primary clarifiers, trickling filters converted to aerobic and anaerobic basins,
and four membrane bioreactors. The membrane bioreactors work as an Integrated
Fixed Film Activated Sludge (IFF AS) Process. The treatment system also includes
secondary clarifiers, a secondary equalization basin, micro-filtration units, a reverse
osmosis system, and a UV disinfection system. Attachment Cis a flow schematic of the
treatment system.
Biosolids processes include sludge digesters, waste activated sludge (WAS) flotation
thickeners, and sludge dewatering belt presses. The existing solids handling facilities
are sized to handle a design flow of 8 mgd.
Attachment F - Fact Sheet F-4
[Page 68]
Yucaipa Valley Water District Order No. RB-2015-0027
Henry N. Wachholz Regional Water Recycling Facility NPDES No. CA0105619
Stormwater generated onsite is drained to a retention basin. No stormwater runoff flows
outside of the plant. The basin is large enough to allow storm water retained therein to
either percolate into the ground or evaporate. However, if the water levels in the basin
get too high, the Discharger has the ability to pump the water from the basin back to the
treatment plant for treatment.
"At the present time, approximately 1.2 MGD on average of recycled water is delivered
to over 50 users in the Discharger's service area for irrigation and other approved uses.
Increased recycled water use by direct delivery, public fill stations, and recharge are
planned in the Discharger's service area. The use of recycled water will be expanded in
the future to customers and other public agencies within the Yucaipa Management Zone,
the Beaumont Management Zone and the San Timoteo Management Zone."
The following table summarizes the treatment processes employed at this facility.
Table 2. Wochholz RWRF Treatment Process
Preliminary Primary Secondary Tertiary Solids Handling
Bar screens Equalization Nitrification & Secondary OAF Thickeners
Grit removal Basin Denitrification Basins Equalization Anaerobic Digestion
Primary Integrated Fixed Film Basins Digester Gas Utilization
Clarification Activated Sludge Microfiltration Belt Press Dewatering
Secondary UV Disinfection
Clarification Reverse Osmosis
Wastewater generated in the YVWD's service area is mostly from residential and
commercial uses, with a negligible amount from industrial uses. The wastewater flows
are summarized as follows:
Table 3. Wochholz RWRF Flows
Flow Condition Influent Flow, mgd
Annual Average Daily Flow 3.72
Peak Daily Flow, Dry 5.33
weather
Peak Daily Flow, Wet 6.2
weather
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Dis

===PLANNED CHANGES===

