[Page 3]
I. DESCRIPTION OF THE FACILITY
The Julian Wastewater Treatment Plant is owned and operated by the County of San Diego, San Diego
County Sanitation District, and is located in the town of Julian, California approximately 60 miles from
the City of San Diego, and approximately one mile West of downtown Julian. The topography of the
treatment plant site is mainly flat along the southern border and the areas immediately adjacent to the
treatment facilities, but is moderately undulating throughout the rest of the site. The 14-acre JWWTP
provides secondary treatment of raw wastewater coming primarily from the town’s business area.
Wastewater from the town of Julian initially flows through an eight-inch sewer main into the
equalization tank for pre-treatment. The flow from the tank is measured by a channel-type flow meter,
located in a manhole upstream of the headworks structure. The headworks are housed in a 5 feet x 10
feet below-grade concrete tank, with dual channels and bar screens. Afterwards, the wastewater flows
into the aeration tanks. The aeration tanks consist of two 53 feet x 53 feet below-grade concrete basins,
each equipped with a floating mechanical aerator to facilitate complete mix, extended aeration
secondary treatment. The wastewater then flows to the secondary clarifiers for sludge settling and
removal, which consist of two 18 feet diameter concrete tanks. The settled sludge from the clarifiers is
then routed to the Return Activated Sludge (RAS)/Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) pump station. The
pump station is comprised of two rotary lobe pumps housed in a concrete vault capable of returning or
wasting the settled sludge from the secondary clarifiers. Most of the settled sludge is treated as RAS,
which is pumped back into the aeration tank which aides in the continued processing of the influent.
The WAS is pumped to the aerobic digester tanks. The RAS/WAS pump station is also fitted with a
flowmeter. The aerobic digesters are two 18 feet x 18 feet above-ground concrete tanks where the
sludge digestion process is completed. Once digestion is complete, the WAS is sent to the Sludge Drying
Beds until it becomes dry enough to haul away to an appropriate landfill. Any excess wet sludge during
Winter months are hauled off to City of San Diego Pump Station 1.
From the clarifiers, the effluent flows into the effluent wetwell, and from the wetwell, the effluent is
pumped into the two effluent storage basins. The storage basins are below-grade concrete lined ponds
with a total capacity of 225,000 cubic feet of storage, roughly equal to 67 days of treated effluent at an
average daily flow rate of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd). The clarified effluent is pumped to an adjacent
field on the site and used for spray irrigation. The volume of effluent sprayed is tracked using a
flowmeter attached to the irrigation pumps.
Per the Notice of applicability for Order W

===PLANNED CHANGES===

