current chief plant operator is Juan Ramon Gomez, Grade 3, License Number 10693.
In the notice of intent, Los Alamos Community Services District proposes that the
Wastewater System is designed to treat and dispose of 200,000 gallons per day to a
secondary treatment level. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment
technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 2. The Central Coast Water
Board is permitting the operation and disposal of the system as described below. Los
Alamos Community Services District must not change operation or disposal technology
without Central Coast Water Board notification and review.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
The headworks consists of a comminutor with a 2-inch
Headworks/Preliminary
bypass bar screen.
Treatment
Headworks capacity (gpd): 400,000
Influent wastewater flows into Pond 1, a lined facultative
pond where it undergoes aerobic processing of organic
substances near the surface. Settled sludges undergo
anaerobic fermentation in the anaerobic lower region of
the pond. Effluent is pumped from Pond 1 into Pond 2, a
Primary and facultative pond for further treatment before being land
Secondary Treatment applied through spray irrigation. Each pond is
mechanically equipped with surface aerators. Each pond is
18 feet deep and has a holding capacity of 1.4 million
gallons. The average detention time of seven days.
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 200,000
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 0
N/A
Tertiary Treatment
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): 0
N/A
Disinfection
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): 0
The wastewater disposal methods include land applying
Wastewater Disposal onto 47.6 acres and evaporation/percolation via 64.4 acre-
Method feet of basins.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 200,000
Solids are removed every five to eight years using a solids
Biosolids/Sludge waste hauler.
Production and 5- year production of biosolids: 155 dry tons
Handling The ultimate destination of biosolids produced is
determined at the time of removal by Synagro WWT, Inc.
Los Alamos Community Services District - 3 - August 24, 2022
Los Alamos Wastewater Treatment Plant
A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3,
which were reported in Los Alamos Community Services District quarterly monitoring
reports. The Central Coast Water Board used reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

