[Page 31]
Facility).
B. The Discharger filed a report of waste discharge and submitted an application for
renewal of the Waste Discharge Requirements on April 13, 2009 to discharge up
to 100,000 gallons per day (gpd) of secondary treated wastewater to on-site
evaporation/percolation ponds. A site visit was conducted by Regional Water
Board staff on July 8, 2009 to observe operations and collect additional data to
develop the waste discharge requirements.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment or Control
The Wilderness Lakes RV Park is spread over 80 acres and has about 523 rental
spaces. Past flow data submitted by the current and previous Dischargers
indicates that the park generates a maximum daily flow of approximately 25,000
gallons per day of domestic wastewater. Wastewater is collected at four
separate lift stations and then directed to the Facility which is an extended
aeration package treatment plant. The treatment system consists of two above
ground aeration units equipped with fine bubble diffusers, two air-blowers, and
one secondary clarifier. Secondary treated wastewater is discharged into
evaporation/percolation ponds. Waste sludge from the clarifier is currently
discharged to an unlined basin where it is dried and then hauled offsite for proper
disposal.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
The Discharger is authorized to discharge from the discharge points set forth
below:
Discharge Effluent Discharge Discharge Point
Disposal Site
Point Description Point Latitude Longitude
On-site
Secondary
001 33 0 40' 37" 117 0 8' 27" evaporation/percolation
treated effluent
ponds
[Page 32]
Order No. R8-2009-0046 -Attachment F - Fact Sheet Page F-4 of F-15
MHC NAC, Inc
Wilderness Lakes STP
c.
Summary of Existing Requirements and Self-Monitoring Report (SMR) Data
1. Effluent limitations contained in the previous Order 95-2 are as follows:
30-Day 12-Month
Instantaneous Instantaneous
Parameter Units Average Average.
Minimum Maximum
Cone. Cone.
Biochemical Oxygen mg/L 30 -­ -

===PLANNED CHANGES===

