Trevor Paslay 1 59082
The Wastewater System consists of the treatment technologies and treatment
capabilities shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Treatment Technology and Capacity
Headworks/Preliminary There is no existing headworks treatment at this plant.
Treatment Headworks capacity (gpd): not applicable
This plant uses aerated ponds to provide primary
Primary Treatment treatment
Primary treatment capacity (gpd): 200,000
This plant uses aerated and non-aerated ponds to provide
Secondary Treatment secondary treatment
Secondary treatment capacity (gpd): 200,000
NONE
Tertiary Treatment
Tertiary treatment capacity (gpd): not applicable
4 Central Coast Water Board staff notified San Miguel Community Services District in the January 14,
2026 notice of violation that their sludge drying bed does not comply with General Permit requirements.
Attachment 1 - 2 -
San Miguel CSD January 15, 2026
Machado Wastewater Treatment Facility
NONE
Disinfection
Disinfection Capacity (gpd): not applicable
Effluent is piped to percolation ponds at the wastewater
facility which percolate the entire plant flow. Three
Wastewater Disposal
percolation ponds are available and are rotated as
Method
needed.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 200,000
Discharge to the emergency disposal areas is temporarily
approved through June 30, 2026. San Miguel Community
Services District must obtain Central Coast Water Board
staff approval via email prior to discharging to the
emergency disposal areas after this date. The Central
Coast Water Board may notify San Miguel Community
Services District at any time to remove the authority to use
the emergency disposal methods including the spray field
and disposal bed.
Emergency
The emergency spray field is approximately 4.95 acres
Wastewater Disposal
and is located to the north of the facility on San Miguel
(Spray Field and
Community Services District -owned property.
Disposal Bed)
The emergency disposal bed is approximately 0.46 acre
and is located at the southeast corner of the facility
property.
See section 3.F below for use requirements for the
emergency spray field and disposal bed.
San Miguel Community Services District must monitor and
report on disposal to the emergency spray field and
emergency disposal bed in compliance with Monitoring
and Reporting Program R3-2026-0010.
Solids are pumped to a drying bed, once sufficently dried
they are hauled to either a landfill or composting facility.
Hauling of sludge is not an annual event.
Biosolids/Sludge
Annual production of biosolids: 50 tons
Production and
Biosolids are disposed at Paso Robles Landfill (in Paso
Handling
Robles California), or occasionally Chicago Grade landfill
(in Templeton California) or Liberty Compost (in Lost Hills
California).
Non-Potable Recycled No, wastewater system does NOT produce non-potable
Water recycled water
3. Wastewater System Specific Requirements and Limitations
All dischargers enrolled in the General Permit must comply with groundwater limits
described in the General Permit, regardless of the compliance pathway chosen.
Because San Miguel Community Service District already has

===PLANNED CHANGES===

