several cities and agencies under contractual agreements. Approximately 85% of
HWRP’s influent flow consists of residential, commercial, and industrial
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 4
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
wastewater from the City of Los Angeles; the remaining 15% comes from the
contract cities and agencies.
The HWRP is a full secondary wastewater treatment plant designed to treat a
maximum daily dry weather flow of 450 million gallons per day (mgd) and a peak
wet weather flow of 850 mgd. The treatment process at the HWRP consists of
preliminary treatment (bar screens, grit chamber), primary treatment
(coagulation, flocculation, primary sedimentation), secondary treatment
(activated sludge and clarification), and solids handling. The secondary-treated
effluent from HWRP is discharged to the Santa Monica Bay and is regulated
under National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No.
CA0109991.
1.3. Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility
The HAWPF will have the capacity to treat up to 2 mgd of primary-treated
wastewater from the HWRP to produce up to 1.5 mgd of advanced-treated
recycled water (recycled water). The process flow diagram is depicted in
Attachment B. The HAWPF treatment process will consist of fine screens,
membrane bioreactors (MBR), reverse osmosis (RO), and an ultraviolet (UV)
disinfection/advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP), and post-treatment
stabilization. The HAWPF will also include multiple pump stations, a chemical
storage facility, a 125,000-gallon product water tank, and a distribution network.
During normal operation, 100% of the recycled water will be beneficially reused
for non-potable applications at LAX and within HWRP.
Preliminary Treatment – After primary treatment at the HWRP, the primary
effluent is conveyed to the Intermediate Pump Station East and West (IPS-E &
IPS-W), a portion of which will be conveyed to the HAWPF for advanced
treatment. A set of two pumps will be installed on the operating floor of each side
of the IPS influent channel. Each pair of pumps will be capable of drawing water
from the respective primary effluent channel. Lines from IPS-E and IPS-W
channels will each be equipped with a flowmeter and conductivity and ammonia
probes. Fine screens will be provided upstream of the MBR tanks to remove
particulate material to avoid damaging the membranes. A horizontal-packaged
drum screen system with a sluiceway for screening disposal will be used to
control odors. The screenings will be periodically dislodged from the screens and
conveyed to the waste return pump station and back to the HWRP IPS afterbay.
MBR Process - The MBR system will consist of two parallel biological nutrient
removal tanks and three parallel membrane tanks. The MBR process will consist
of biological treatment utilizing anoxic, aerobic, and deoxygenation tanks,
followed by submerged membrane ultrafiltration. The MBR process will remove
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand, nitrogen through nitrification and
denitrification, and microbial solids removal through membrane separation. The
biological treatment tanks will consist of two baffled anoxic zones followed by two
aerobic zones. A deoxygenation zone will be included upstream of the anoxic
zones so that residual dissolved oxygen from the membrane tanks will be
consumed biologically before returning to the anoxic zones. Membrane
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 5
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
separation to remove microbial solids will consist of three parallel covered
membrane tanks, membranes, and MBR auxiliary equipment.
RO Process - RO removes large molecular weight dissolved organic and
inorganic compounds and pathogens by forcing MBR effluent through a
semipermeable membrane under a higher pressure than the osmotic pressure of
the solution. The HAWPF RO system will consist of an RO feed tank, feed
pumps, pretreatment (chloramine injection, sulfuric acid and antiscalant addition),
cartridge filters, two RO trains, and RO membrane cleaning and flushing. There
will be two RO trains, each with a design capacity of 0.75 mgd, which will operate
continuously at a constant flux. Each RO train will have two stages designed to
achieve a recovery of up to 85% and to produce 0.75 mgd of RO permeate. RO
feed pumps will pump MBR effluent stored in the RO feed tank through cartridge
filters and into the RO membranes. The RO concentrated stream will be
conveyed back to the HWRP IPS afterbay. Permeate from the RO membranes
will flow to the UV/AOP treatment process. Chloramine will be injected after the
RO feed tank to prevent biological fouling of the RO membranes. Sulfuric acid
and antiscalant will be injected after the RO feed tank to control mineral scaling
of the RO membranes. Cartridge filters will be provided upstream of the RO
membranes to remove particulate matter. Chemical cleaning and removal of
particles, mineral scale, and biological film from the RO membrane will be
performed to avoid head loss and the resulting increase in energy use.
UV/AOP - The primary functions of UV/AOP include pathogen inactivation and
destruction and removal of trace organic compounds. The UV/AOP process will
provide additional treatment to control taste and odor compounds if needed.
Chloramine will be dosed upstream of the UV reactors (two on duty and one
standby) to generate hydroxyl radicals to eliminate the need for an additional
chemical onsite and to provide a chlorine residual to achieve additional
disinfection in the effluent pipeline. The UV system will use low-pressure high-
output lamps with an emissions wavelength peak at about 254 nanometers (nm).
For non-potable water reuse applications using RO permeate, the California
State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking
Water (DDW) requires a UV dose of 50 millijoules per square centimeter
(mJ/cm2) under conditions with fouled lamp sleeves and aged UV lamps. This will
provide 5-log removal of poliovirus, which is the California virus reduction
requirement for non-potable water reuse. Considering potential future application
of the HAWPF product for potable reuse, the UV dose planned for the HAWPF
will be scalable so that it can meet at least the non-potable reuse set point of 50
mJ/cm2 but also achieve potable reuse requirements (not less than 800 mJ/cm2).
Post-treatment Stabilization - Post-treatment stabilization includes calcite
contactors, which will be located upstream of the product water pump station and
will be used to adjust pH, add alkalinity and hardness, and stabilize the water
quality to prevent adverse effects within the distribution system. Calcite and
sodium hydroxide will be used for adjustment of pH, alkalinity, and hardness.
Sodium hypochlorite and liquid ammonium sulfate will be added post-stabilization
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 6
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
to provide a 2 milligrams per liter (mg/L) chloramine residual in the product water
tank and the distribution piping.
Odor Control - Odor from three foul air streams (fine screens, biological nutrient
removal basins, and MBR tanks) will be captured, combined, and conveyed to a
single odor control unit consisting of a single-bed carbon adsorber, which will
remove hydrogen sulfide and a variety of organic sulfides that are commonly
emitted from primary effluent screens and the biological nutrient removal and
MBR processes.
Product Recycled Water Delivery - HAWPF recycled water will be pumped to
the product water tank for storage and equalization. The product water tank will
be a 125,000-gallon cast-in-place concrete tank that will store the equivalent of
one production train at 0.75 mgd for four hours. The product water export pump
station will pump the recycled water into the water distribution network for export
to LAX. Vertical turbine pumps installed on the deck of the product water tank will
pump product water to LAX, the HWRP industrial water wet well, HWRP
Technical Supporting Facility (TSF), and other HWRP internal uses. Three
pumps will be provided, each rated at 0.75 mgd and designed to meet the
required head at the LAX connection point on Imperial Highway. LADWP is
entitled to receive up to 0.75 mgd of recycled water for distribution to LAX.
Excess recycled product water not used by LAX will be diverted to supplement
HWRP’s industrial water supply. A potable backup supplemental water supply
will be provided to meet the peak demands of end users in excess of produced
recycled water or provide a backup supply if there are interruptions in the
production of recycled water. If HAWPF is unable to produce and deliver
recycled water (due to off-spec product water, power outage, etc.), product water
will be shut down or directed to the HWRP IPS and potable water will be
delivered to the product water tank to ensure that the delivery of water is not
interrupted. Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), the governing authority that
owns and operates the LAX, also plans to install a backup storage tank in the
event of a long-term HAWPF recycled water outage. The connection between
LADWP and the potable backup line has several protections in place to prevent
cross-connection, including two reduced-pressure backflow prevention
assemblies installed in series at the connection point with the LADWP recycled
water pipeline 100 feet west of Gate A on the HWRP property boundary and an
air gap in the HAWPF Product Water Tank.
Waste Stream - The waste streams generated from the HAWPF will be routed to
the waste return pump station, which will collect waste discharges if equipment
fails or if water quality requirements are not achieved. The waste return pump
station will pump all combined waste discharges back to the afterbay of the IPS
for additional treatment at the HWRP. Waste discharges include MBR waste
activated sludge, brine reject from RO, chemical wastes, off-spec product water,
and overflows. The chemical wastes include waste from the membrane RO
cleaning, wash down, and spillage or leaks within the chemical containment
area. The waste streams from drains, screenings, overflows, and neutralization
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 7
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
that require disposal will be discharged back to the IPS effluent channel with
proper care to avoid recirculation. Waste streams generated at or after the RO
feed tank will be routed to the waste return pump station and an air gap will
prevent cross-connection and backflow. These waste streams include overflow
and/or off-spec water from the RO feed tank, RO permeate, UV/AOP effluent,
and product water tank and wastes from cleaning and flushing operations.
2. RECYCLED WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
The Permittees will treat primary effluent from HWRP at the HAWPF to generate
advanced treated recycled water. The HAWPF will provide up to 0.75 mgd of
recycled water to LADWP for distribution to LAX. Recycled water will be conveyed to
LAX’s Central Utility Plant, where it will be used for cooling and toilet flushing at
Midfield Satellite Concourse and Bradley West Terminals and at future terminals and
buildings retrofitted for dual plumbing. The Permittees also expect to use 0.75 mgd of
recycled water for industrial and other non-potable uses at HWRP. Recycled water
produced in excess of LAX’s fluctuating demand will be diverted to the HWRP
industrial water wet well. HWRP industrial processes (boilers) that require high quality
source water currently use potable water. The HAWPF will produce enough recycled
water to replace HWRP’s industrial water demand for boiler feedwater, odor
scrubbing, toilet flushing, landscape irrigation, and other industrial uses within HWRP.
Table 3 below lists the expected uses of recycled water from the HAWPF. Prior to
delivering water for any of these uses, the Permittees shall update their Title 22
Engineering Report, as required in section 12.14 below, to include designs for these
uses, submit DDW’s conditional approval of the Title 22 Engineering Report to the
Los Angeles Water Board, and receive approval from the Los Angeles Water Board
to deliver the recycled water for the new uses.
Table 3. Advanced-Treated Recycled Water Uses
Recycled water use Recycled water user Location
Industrial boiler
LASAN, LAWA HWRP, LAX
feedwater
Sewer flushing LASAN HWRP
HWRP, LAX Bradley
Terminal and Midfield
Toilet flushing LASAN, LAWA
Satellite Concourse
Terminal
Irrigation LASAN HWRP
Pump seals,
centrifuge seal, LASAN HWRP
polymer dilution
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 8
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
Recycled water use Recycled water user Location
City of Los Angeles Bureau of
Street sweeping, dust Street Services, Bureau of
--
control Engineering, City of Los Angeles-
authorized private contractors
Vehicle and
equipment washing,
LAWA --
airplane water
cannon salute
City of Los Angeles Fire
Firefighting --
Department
Cooling towers
LAWA LAX Central Utility Plant
makeup water
3. HAWPF ADVANCED-TREATED RECYCLED WATER QUALITY
3.1. The treatment process at the HAWPF will produce recycled water that consists of
disinfected advanced-treated effluent.
3.2. The level of treatment provided to the primary effluent at the HAWPF will
produce advanced-treated recycled water that will meet disinfected tertiary
recycled water standards [Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (22
CCR), § 60301.230] for non-potable uses.
3.3. The turbidity of the recycled water produced at the HAWPF will not exceed 0.2
nephelometric turbidity unit (NTU) more than 5 percent of the time within a 24-
hour period and 0.5 NTU at any time (22 CCR, § 60301.320(b)).
3.4. The HAWPF UV/AOP disinfection process will maintain a minimum dose of 50
millijoules per square centimeter (mJ/cm2) at all times to achieve total coliform
concentration of <2.2 most probable number (MPN)/100 milliliter (mL) and 5-log
virus removal.
4. GROUNDWATER BASIN
4.1. Recycled water used for irrigation at HWRP may percolate into the Coastal Plain
of Los Angeles West Coast groundwater basin (West Coast Basin). The West
Coast Basin is bounded by the Newport‐Inglewood Uplift on the northeast, by the
Santa Monica Basin on the north, and by the Pacific Ocean, Palos Verdes Hills,
and the Los Angeles‐Orange County line on the southwest and south. In the
West Coast Basin, aquifers are generally confined, and natural replenishment is
dominated by subsurface inflows. Groundwater pumping constitutes the major
outflow from the basin and the Silverado Aquifer is the most productive aquifer in
the basin. Overall, production wells in the basin yield good quality groundwater.
Localized areas of marginal to poor water quality exist, primarily at the basin
margins and in the shallower and deeper aquifers impacted by seawater
ADOPTED: 10/19/2023 9
City of Los Angeles Bureau of Sanitation Order No. R4-2023-0357
Hyperion Advanced Water Purification Facility File No. 23-104
intrusion. Recycled water will be stored in product water tanks prior to delivery to
use sites at LAX and HWRP, and therefore the storage of recycled water will not
impact groundwater. The only potential percolation into groundwater may occur
during irrigation on-site at HWRP and during irrigation, recycled water will be
applied at agronomic rates. Since the soil, climate, and plant demands will be
considered when applying recycled water to land, a negligible amount of recycled
water is expected to pass below plants’ root zone and will therefore have a
minimal impact on the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

