wastewater is collected from the City of Camarillo and an unincorporated section
of Ventura County. Influent undergoes preliminary treatment through aerated grit
removal and mechanical bar screening. Wastewater is then split into two
streams, distributing one third of the flow to Plant 1 and two thirds of the flow to
Plant 3. The City’s wastewater collection system consists of a 30 inch gravity
line, a 30 inch force main, and an influent pumping station which delivers
wastewater to the headworks of the Camarillo WRP. The wastewater undergoes
primary clarification, nitrification and denitrification for biological nitrogen removal
(BNR), secondary clarification, flow equalization, filtration, disinfection using
sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination using sodium bisulfite.
2. The Facility serves an estimated population of 46,500 people. wastewater is a
mixture of domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater that is pre-treated
pursuant to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR) part 403 under
the Camarillo Sanitary District’s Pretreatment Program, which was submitted to
the Regional Water Board for approval on July 9, 1982. The Camarillo Sanitary
District’s Pretreatment Program currently consists of four permitted nondomestic
dischargers. All four are classified as significant industrial users (SIUs) pursuant
to 40 CFR Part 403.3(v) and as categorical industrial users (CIUs). One CIU is
an electrical and electronic components/semiconductor facility subject to 40 CFR
Part 469 Subpart A; one CIU is a metal finisher subject to 40 CFR Part 433; and
the remaining two CIUs are metal molding and casting/aluminum casting facilities
subject to 40 CFR Part 464, subpart A. Camarillo SD also has a fats, oils, and
grease (FOG) program that was initiated in February 2008, under which food
establishments are inspected every year. Camarillo WRP does not accept
hauled waste.
3. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit processes, operations,
and/or equipment:
a. Grit removal and screening: Grit is a wide assortment of inorganic solids
such as pebbles, sand, silt, eggshells, glass, and metal fragments. Larger
solids are mechanically removed by using bar screens. This material is
collected and disposed of at a landfill.
b. Primary clarification: In the primary clarifiers, solids are settled out,
thickened, and returned to the anaerobic digesters for additional treatment.
Primary-treated wastewater is sent to the BNR basins.
c. Secondary Clarification: Wastewater that has received primary clarification
enters the activated sludge basins to undergo nitrogen removal using the
Modified Ludzak-Ettinger (MLE) process. Wastewater that has undergone
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET: (Adopted: 11/14/2019) F-4
CAMARILLO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER R4-2019-0136
CAMARILLO WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0053597
the nitrification/denitrification process is sent to the secondary filters.
Secondary treated wastewater is sent to the tertiary filters.
d. Equalization Basins: Equalization basins allow for adjustments of flow of
primary clarifier effluent to the MLE process and/or headworks throughout
the day. They help the system run closer to a steady state condition.
e. Tertiary filtration: The filtration process is used to remove or reduce
suspended or colloidal matter from a liquid stream by passing the water
through AquaDisk tertiary cloth filters. In the case of Camarillo WRP, nylon
needle felt is the filtration media. Filters remove the solids that the
secondary sedimentation process did not remove, thereby improving the
disinfection efficiency and reliability. The maximum loading rate for these
filters in 6 gallons per minute per square foot, or 0.00064 MGD per square
foot. Filter backwash water is returned to the headworks for treatment.
f. Chlorination: Sodium hypochlorite and aqueous ammonia are used as
disinfectants in the chlorine contact chamber. The disinfecting agent is
added to the treated effluent to destroy bacteria, pathogens, and viruses, and
to minimize algal growth.
g. Dechlorination: Prior to discharge to Conejo Creek, sodium bisulfite is added
to the treated effluent to remove residual chlorine.
h. Solids handling: Grit and bar screenings are hauled off-site for disposal in a
landfill. Sludge from secondary clarifiers is pumped either to the MLE
process (return activated sludge), or to the aerobic digester for further
treatment. Sludge from the drying beds is hauled away to an off-site
composting facility.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

