[Page 80]
2. EVMWD Regional Water Reclamation Facility Design Characteristics
Following screening and grit removal, the RWRF has two treatment trains using
. oxidation ditches for secondary treatment. Trains A and B provide primary and
secondary wastewater treatment processes, and the flows are combined for disinfection
with UV light before discharge. Both treatment trains provide a modified extended
aeration secondary treatment process that also provides Total Nitrogen removal. Train
A has alum addition for the removal of Total Phosphorous (TP), while Train B removes
TP with an anaerobic/oxic biological process. After each train tertiary filtration is
provided prior to combining flows from Train A and B for UV disinfection.
Attachment B shows the location of the Facility.
Attachment Cis a flow schematic of the treatment system.
[Page 81]
Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Order No. RB-2013-0017
Regional Water Reclamation Facility NPDES No. CA8000027
Attachment F-Fact Sheet Page F-5 of Page F-28
3. Biosolids Handling Practices
Waste Activated sludge from the District's Railroad Canyon WRF are discharged to
the RWRF. Septage from septic tanks within the District's service area is also
accepted at the RWRF for treatment.
Biosolids treatment at the RWRF consists of belt presses and drying beds.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. Discharge Points for Surface Discharge
Tertiary treated wastewater is discharged to Temescal Creek at DP-001 and DP-
004, and to Lake Elsinore at DP-002.
The District has committed to supply 0.5 mgd to the Gunerson Pond and the
constructed wetlands, just north (downstream) of the plant. Gunerson Pond is
contiguous with Temescal Creek. The pond and constructed wetlands are mitigation
for the building of a levee across Lake Elsinore, and the reclaimed water provided by
the Discharger is needed to maintain the beneficial uses of these constructed
wetlands. The Discharger meets its commitment to supply water to Gunerson Pond
by discharging at least 0.5 mgd of treated wastewater to Temescal Creek, which is
then diverted from the Creek shortly downstream of DP-001 into the Pond.
Under normal operations and non-rain/flood conditions, the District plans to
discharge up to 7.5 mgd of tertiary treated wastewater from the RWRF to Lake
Elsinore to maintain lake levels. This Order allows the District to discharge up to 8
mgd to Temescal Creek and/or Lake Elsinore.
2. Discharge Points for Land Disposal
There is no direct discharge to land from the RWRF. There are indirect disch

===PLANNED CHANGES===

