[Page 1]
Facility
The Cal Fire Parlin Fork Conservation Camp (Facility) is owned by Cal Fire (Discharger)
and is located adjacent to Parlin Creek in the Jackson Demonstration Forest east of Fort
Bragg. The Discharger operates the Facility wastewater treatment system. The California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation oversees the operation of the on-site inmate
conservation camp. Approximately 100 minimum custody inmates reside at the Facility
and approximately 20 staff members are employed there. The Facility is not located in an
area served by a regional wastewater collection system; therefore, domestic wastewater is
collected and treated on-site. The site location is shown on Attachment A, which is
attached hereto and is made part of this NOA by reference.
The Facility is located on two 640-acre parcels. The conservation camp buildings, grease
interceptor, septic tanks, and one lift station are located along the northern boundary of
parcel APN No. 021-030-10. The lower leachfield, former wastewater pond, and second lift
station are located in the southwest corner of parcel APN No. 021-030-04 and the upper
leachfield is located near the western boundary.
Wastewater originating from Facility restrooms, showers, kitchen, and laundry facilities is
treated and disposed of via the on-site domestic wastewater treatment system. The
current wastewater system was installed in 1998 as required by Cease and Desist Order
(CDO) No. 98-38 to correct violations of Waste Discharge Requirements (WDR) Order No.
97-52. CDO No. 98-38 was issued on March 26, 1998, due to on-going instances of
surfacing effluent from the lower leachfield.
WDR Order No. 97-52 authorized the discharge of treated wastewater from the
percolation/evaporation pond and the lower leachfield that received pond overflow.
Following installation of the current wastewater system in 1998, the wastewater pond was
periodically used in emergency pump failure situations when wastewater was sent by
gravity to the pond rather than pumped uphill to the upper leachfield. In 2016, Cal Fire
removed the wastewater pond by draining the water to the lower leachfield and backfilling
the pond with soil. Removal of the pond caused the lower leachfield to disconnect from the
existing wastewater collection system. The lower leachfield remains in place and Cal Fire is
considering possible future use of it during emergency pump failure situations. On August
26, 2016, Regional Water Board staff directed Cal Fire to submit a report of waste
discharge for review prior to approval of this proposed emergency use.
The current wastewater system serving the Facility consists of a gravity collection system,
grease interceptor, bar screen, two 10,000-gallon septic tanks, two lift stations, a 1,000-
gallon septic tank, and a subsurface disposal field.
[Page 2]
CDF Parlin Fork Conservation Camp NOA - 3 - March 13, 2017
Discharge Description
The Facility wastewater treatment system is designed for an average daily flow of 14,200
gallons per day (gpd). As described in the ROWD, the projected untreated and treated
domestic wastewater quality from the Facility is consistent with the characterization of
wastewa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

