[Page 1]
0043. The Facility has a permitted design flow of 0.08 million gallons per day (MGD).
Attachment B to this NOA provides a site plan.
The volume of waste entering the Facility varies widely depending on the time of year and
weather conditions. During the school term (generally, August through May), the campus may
have a daily occupancy of up to 6,000 people who use facilities during normal class times. This
can increase by several hundred during special events. The campus daily occupancy drops under
100 persons during certain holiday weekends and academic breaks.
[Page 2]
College of the Redwoods - 3 - June 7, 2018
Notice of Applicability
Attachment C to this NOA provides a schematic of the Facility. The Facility is composed of an
influent septic tank, a recirculating tank, two recirculating gravel filters, two leach fields, and
support facilities.
Discharge Description
The Facility is designed for a peak flow of 0.08 MGD. Peak daily flow conditions are expected to
take place when class is in session and the maximum number of students and faculty are present,
Utility Replacement Seismic Strengthening Project Design Report, for College of the Redwoods
and during special events.
The ,
prepared by GHD Engineering, and dated June 2015 (Report), provides a plan layout of the
Collection System and Primary Treatment
wastewater collection system. This Report is made part of this NOA by reference.
The majority of the campus wastewater is collected and delivered to the wastewater treatment
plant via a standard gravity collection system. The collection system has one pump station that
serves the Child Development Center and a Snack Shack. The proposed system upgrade will
include replacement of this pump station.
Primary sewage treatment is provided by an 80,000-gallon three-chambered cast-in-place septic
tank. The influent septic tank allows for pretreatment through liquids/solids separation which
significantly reduces biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS)
loading on downstream treatment units. In addition, the septic tank provides an anoxic
environment for organic nitrogen conversion and denitrification. The design engineers indicate
that the septic tank is specifically designed to handle the peak daily design flow of 80,000 gallons.
Therefore, the minimum hydraulic detention time for the design flow event will be one day.
Given its size, the septic tank is expected to afford a degree of attenuation of diurnal peaks as
well as wet weather peaks. The solids in the septic tank will be periodically pumped and hauled
to an appropriate offsite location for treatment and disposal.
The College will monitor influent flow following the septic tank, using a v-notch weir and
ultrasonic level system to measure the range of flows. This configuration is intended to reduce
the problems associated with fouling of flow measuring systems with raw wastewater influent
solids and debris that are problematic in traditional flumes during low flow periods. Due to the
variable nature of the population on the campus throughout the day and by season, v

[Page 3]
Notice of Applicability
approximately 13,200 square feet (sf). The design engineer reports that the hydraulic loading
rate used will provide overall robustness to the design and afford a factor of safety for handling
periodic peak flows that may occur. The yard piping is configured to return flow from the gravel
filter underdrain to the septic tank to aid in the denitrification process prior to disposal to the
Wastewater Discharge System
leach field.
The recirculation tank is equipped with a recirculating splitter valve. As the level of water in the
recirculation tank rises, it will cause a floating ball valve to shut off the water returning from the
recirculating gravel filters and will divert it to the effluent pump station wet well. The wet well is
equipped with two pumps (one in use and one on standby). Rising water level in the effluent

[Page 3]
Wastewater Discharge System
leach field.
The recirculation tank is equipped with a recirculating splitter valve. As the level of water in the
recirculation tank rises, it will cause a floating ball valve to shut off the water returning from the
recirculating gravel filters and will divert it to the effluent pump station wet well. The wet well is
equipped with two pumps (one in use and one on standby). Rising water level in the effluent
pump station wet well will start the lead effluent pump and pump down the wet well to the low
level shut off. In the event of unusually high flows, the standby pump can run as well. Effluent
pumped to the leach field will not be disinfected. The effluent pumps will discharge to a 6-inch
diameter force main that is routed approximately 3,300 feet along the Facility’s property line and
the Humboldt County Right of Way to the leach field location.
The leach field site is located behind the existing stadium, approximately 70 feet uphill from the
treatment facility. The design engineer selected this site following a campus wide search for
suitable leach field locations that would have the right combination of available area, compatible
uses, soil conditions, groundwater characteristics, percolation characteristics, and other factors.
There are two leach fields for effluent distribution. Field 1 is 921 feet long and Field 2 is 931 feet
long. Each trench has 11 feet of sidewall below the leach line. This results in 21,183 square feet
of infiltrative area in Field 1 and 21,413 square feet of infiltrative area in field 2. Indexing
distribution valves are used to alternate application between leach lines with each cycle of
effluent pumps. This arrangement

===PLANNED CHANGES===

