[Page 79]
A. Description of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
1. Primary Treatment: The primary treatment consists of screening, grit removal, primary
sedimentation and flow equalization. Ferric chloride is injected into the primary
sedimentation sludge to control hydrogen sulfide production and to aid in primary settling.
Settled solids are removed from the primary clarifier for biosolids processing.
2. Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR): Biological treatment consists of bio-augmentation
at a biologically activated reaeration (BAR) tank, feeding into two parallel anoxic tanks and
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 80]
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020-0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651
four parallel aeration tanks for full nitrification and denitrification (NDN). Activated sludge
and mixed liquor recycling is utilized to balance load demands within the system.
3. Secondary & Tertiary Treatment: Mixed liquor is transferred to six parallel rectangular
secondary final sedimentation tanks for secondary settling. Return activated sludge (RAS)
is collected from the clarifiers and returned to the BAR process, while waste activated
sludge (WAS) is sent to the biosolids treatment processes. The secondary treated effluent
is sent to the horizontal pressurized mixed media filtration process.
4. Disinfection: The tertiary treated effluent is disinfected using gaseous chlorine with
ammonia addition to create chloramines with contact time through the chlorine contact
chambers. Most of the disinfected tertiary treated effluent is dechlorinated using gaseous
sulfur dioxide and sent through the effluent transfer stations (ETS) to a series of ‘wildlife’
ponds, which are unlined ponds that allow percolation and contain standing water year-
round. A portion of the disinfected effluent, averaging 0.7 MGD annually, is distributed
using the recycled water system for landscape irrigation or dust control.
5. Biosolids Handling: The biosolids system consists of dissolved air flotation (DAF)
thickener, anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering. The primary settled sludge is
sent directly to anaerobic digesters for thickening. Secondary settled sludge is removed
from the secondary final sedimentation tanks and thickened in the DAF unit. Thickened
sludge is sent to anaerobic digesters for stabilization.
Thickened primary and secondary sludge is sent to three anaerobic digesters operated in
parallel to achieve Class B biosolids. Utilizing the methane gas produced by the anaerobic
digestion, a co-generation system fuels an engine that keeps the digester heated through
a series of heat exchangers. Anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered through one of
two centrifuges to produce a cake of 18 to 23 percent solids. Sludge cake is conveyed to
tractor trailers and hauled offsite for disposal. Centrate waste streams are sent back to the
facility for treatment. All of the Class B anaerobically digested sludge is dewatered and
sent to an offsite contracted composting facility.
B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
1. The Ventura WRF discharges tertiary-treated municipal wastewater to the SCRE via
unlined wildlife ponds. Treated effluent is discharged from the plant to surface waters at
the following discharge point:
Discharge Point 001: Discharge to SCRE via Wildlife Ponds: Latitude: 34.23937º,
Longitude: -119.25870º
2. The treatment plant discharges to the lowest point in the Santa Clara River Watershed,
the estuary where the freshwater enters the Pacific Ocean. Treated wastewater is
discharged from the chlorine contact chambers to the wildlife ponds. After transit time in
the ponds, the water flows across a weir at location EFF-001A and through channels in
riparian habitat into the SCRE at monitoring location RSW-004.
3. The estuary is created when the mouth of the Santa Clara River is closed off by a sand
bar so that a shallow lagoon is created. At times when the sand bar is breached, either by
Santa Clara River flows of sufficient volume and velocity, floodwaters or by mechanical
means, the lagoon empties directly into the Pacific Ocean. Monitoring Points RSW-001
and RSW-002 are at the southeast and southern shorelines of the open water in the
lagoon, respectively (refer to Figure B-1). When the estuary is breached, the effluent flows
to join the Santa Clara River near the breach point, located at Monitoring Point RSW-003.
Monitoring Point RSW-005 is where the Harbor Boulevard Bridge crosses the Santa Clara
River as it flows into the estuary. The channel and berm locations may shift, so the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 81]
CITY OF VENT

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
Plant upgrades are planned for the existing wastewater treatment plant, in addition to new
facilities planned to protect the ecology of the estuary, develop additional water supply
sources to meet water demands for planned future growth, and enhance supply reliability
even in drought years.
1. Plant Upgrades
Plant upgrades include modification to the anaerobic digester, aeration blower and
nitrification/denitrification (NDN) system, and bioaugmentation in the collection and
process systems. The City is finalizing the design of the capital improvement project to
upgrade the anaerobic digester heating and mixing system. Construction is estimated to
begin after the adoption of this Order and extend to 2020. This upgrade will include
installation of a new gas flare and provide a more consistent gas delivery to the
cogeneration unit. It will also increase the quality of sludge produced by the digesters
that will in turn optimize the performance of the centrifuge dewatering equipment.
The City is also in the design phase of an aeration blower upgrade that will include the
installation of high efficiency blowers to provide the air and mixing in the aeration basins
of the biological nutrient removal (BNR) process. Installation will also include advanced
monitoring and control loops to better control air flow and monitor nitrate levels
throughout the system. This will enable operations staff to have a greater understanding
of the nitrification/denitrification process through online monitoring and Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) software control.
In light of the success of the bioaugmentation system utilized in the sewer collection
system to address sulfide levels, the Ventura WRF has designed, and will pilot a
bioaugmentation system. This system will utilize specific nitrifying bacteria and enzymes
to provide enhanced nitrogen removal to the BNR process in the short term, while larger
capital projects are planned to increase the anoxic tank capacity described below. If
successful, this bioaugmentation system will be utilized to make the BNR process more
consistent during diurnal and seasonal spikes in nitrate concentrations.
a. Nutrient Reduction through Bioaugmentation:
The Ventura WRF has also taken steps to increase biological activity in the
collection system. Traditional forms of chemical treatment were limited in controlling
the septic conditions, were costly, and performed at low efficiencies. A form of
bioaugmentation was introduced and piloted at a collection system lift station and
was found to successfully reduce the amount of sulfide generation which kept the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-13
[Page 89]
CITY OF VENTURA ORDER R4-2020-0024
VENTURA WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0053651
influent sulfide level down below