hereinafter Facility.
The Facility consists of three oxidation ponds, four constructed wetland treatment
cells, a sodium hypochlorite injection system, chlorine contact pipe lines, two
percolation ponds and an operation and maintenance building. Wastewater
treatment at the Facility is achieved through settling, absorption, aerobic and
anaerobic bacterial actions, disinfection and other biogeochemical processes.
Wastewater is pumped west from the collection system headworks station, across
the South Fork of the Eel River, via the Bear Canyon Road Bridge. Wastewater
enters the Facility at the north end of oxidation Pond 1. The three oxidation ponds
and four wetland treatment cells are operated in series with wastewater flowing by
gravity from Pond 1 through to Wetland Cell 4. Effluent from Wetland Cell 4 gravity
flows to a concrete vault for disinfection. As effluent passes through the vault it is
dosed with sodium hypochlorite. The dosed effluent passes through two 140-linear
foot 24-inch pipes, allowing additional contact time. The disinfected effluent is
discharged to the percolation ponds, at Discharge Point 001, year-round.
Attachment A provides a map of the area around the WWTF. Attachment B provides
C. aL eflgoawl Ascuhtehmoraittiice osf. the WWTF.
This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) for
discharges to land issued pursuant to section 13263 of the California Water Code
D. B(Wasaitne rP Claond.e).
As required by Water Code section 13263(a), these WDRs are crafted to
implement the Water Quality Control Plan for the North Coast Region (Basin Plan), and
in so doing, the Regional Water Board has taken into consideration the beneficial uses
to be protected, the water quality objectives (both numeric and narrative) reasonably
required for that purpose, other (including previous) waste discharges, the need to
prevent nuisance, and the provisions of Water Code section 13241. The Basin Plan
contains implementation plans and policies for protecting waters of the basin. The
Waste Discharge Requirements - 3 - September 6, 2018
Garberville Sanitary District WWTF
Order No. R1-2018-0033
Basin Plan implements State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board)
Resolution No. 88 -63, which established state policy that all waters, with certain
exceptions, should be considered suitable or potentially suitable for municipal or
domestic supply.
Thus, beneficial uses applicable to area groundwater within the South Fork Eel River
Hydrologic Area to be protected are as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN),
agricultural water supply (AGR), industrial service supply (IND), industrial process
supply (PRO), groundwater recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment (FRSH),
aquaculture (AQUA), and Native American culture (CUL).
The beneficial uses applicable to the South Fork Eel River adjacent to the Facility are
as follows: municipal and domestic supply (MUN), agricultural water supply (AGR),
industrial service supply (IND), industrial process supply (PRO), groundwater
recharge (GWR), freshwater replenishment (FRSH), hydropower generation (POW),
navigation (NAV), water contact recreation (REC-1), non-contact water recreation
(REC-2), commercial and sport fishing (COMM), warm freshwater habitat (WARM)
cold freshwater habitat (COLD), wildlife habitat (WILD), rare, threatened, or
endangered species (RARE), migration of aquatic organisms (MIGR), spawning,
E. rCeaplirfoodruncitaio Wn, aatnedr/ Coor deaer.ly development (SPWN), and aquaculture (AQUA).
The California Water Code (Water Code) establishes the
authority for the Regional Water Board to establish water quality objectives, impose
discharge prohibitions, and prescribe waste discharge and reclamation
requirements. Water Code section 13241 requires each regional board to “establish
such water quality objectives in water quality control plans as in its judgment will
ensure the reasonable protection of beneficial uses and the prevention of nuisance
[…].” The control of waste is established through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

