weather flow of 0.55 mgd and a peak average daily wet weather flow of 0.95 mgd.
The Facility consists of a headworks with a comminutor and bar screen; Aero-Mod treatment
system with a selector tank, four aeration tanks, two clarifiers, and two aerobic sludge digesters;
disc filtration; and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
Order No. R1-2018-0046
City of Ferndale
NPDES No. CA0022721
Wastewater flows, by gravity, from the municipal collection system to the headworks at the
Facility. Within the headworks, the comminutor and bar screen provide primary treatment.
Wastewater from the headworks is pumped to the selector tank and then flows by gravity to the
extended aeration basins for biological treatment. From the aeration basins, wastewater flows by
gravity to the adjacent rectangular clarifiers. Return activated sludge (RAS) is selectively injected
into the selector tank and aeration basins, as appropriate, to achieve maximum nitrogen removal
efficiencies. Clarified wastewater undergoes disc filtration prior to UV disinfection. The
disinfected effluent is then directed to a holding basin (i.e., the former chlorine contact basin)
where it may be stored prior to recycling or discharge to surface water. Variable drive pumps
located within the basin provide continuous flows when discharging to surface water.
The Permittee also accepts septage from the local area and sludge from the Scotia Community
Services District for treatment. This septage and sludge is placed in the Permittee’s 8 million
gallon synthetically lined retention pond which serves as a wet-weather flow equalization basin
and provides anaerobic treatment of sludge.
Influent exceeding the design treatment capacity of 0.95 mgd (as an average daily flow) is
diverted from the headworks to the retention pond. Flows from the equalization basin flow back
to the headworks to proceed with full treatment through the Facility once average daily influent
flows subside below 0.95 mgd.
Aerobically digested sludge is pumped to a belt press for dewatering. The dewatered sludge is
removed offsite for disposal at a permitted landfill and the Permittee may dispose of sludge at
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
exceedances.
The Permittee is evaluating various projects to reduce infiltration and inflow (I&I) in its
collection system, improve operation of and reduce costs of operating its wastewater treatment
facility, increase wet-weather storage, and to increase sludge treatment. The projects are in the
planning stage and are dependent on funding. Specific projects could include, raising the dike of
the existing equalization basin by approximately 1 foot to expand the size of the retention pond
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
Order No. R1-2018-0046
City of Ferndale
NPDES No. CA0022721
to prevent possible overflow from Francis Creek into the retention pond, and to consider
upgrades to the biosolids processing to provide treatment to achieve Class A biosolids for
application to City landscapes.,
In addition, the Permittee has received a grant under the Clean Water State Revolving Fund to
investigate existing infiltration and inflow (I&I) issues and determine potential improvements to
the collection system. The grant also provides funding to conduct an intake study, within the
equalization basin, to determine whether modifications to the intake structure are necessary, and
to conduct a UV disinfection study to determine any modifications that may need to be
III.