inadequately treated wastewater to temporary storage or an upstream process or
automatically activated chemical addition to comply with title 22 requirements (Sections
60304 and 60307). Any time the filtered effluent turbidity exceeds 0.5 NTU for more than
fifteen minutes due to membrane cleaning procedures, the incident(s) shall be described in
the applicable monthly SMR cover letter. At a minimum, each incident will be presented in
table format and include the maximum turbidity, the duration of the exceedance, and the
B. DISINFEcaCuTsIeO oNf PthReO eCxEceSeSd ManOcNe.I TORING FOR TERTIARY CHLORINE DISINFECTION SYSTEM
Tertiary disinfection process monitoring shall demonstrate compliance with section IV.C.3.b
(Disinfection Process Requirements for Chlorine Disinfection System – Discharge Point 002) of this
Order and applies to all tertiary treated wastewater flows. The following disinfection process
monitoring requirements must be implemented:
Attachment D – Monitoring and Reporting Program D-4
Order No. R1-2019-0007
Airport-Larkfield-Wikiup Sanitation Zone WWTF
1. Disinfection Process Monitoring (Monitoring Location EFF-002)
a. Monitoring.
The chlorine residual of the effluent from the chlorine contact chamber shall
be monitored continuously and recorded, and the modal contact time shall be determined at
b. tChoem spamliaen pcoei.nt.
The chlorine disinfection CT (the product of total chlorine residual and modal
contact time) shall not fall below 450 mg-min/L, with a modal contact time of at least 90
minutes.
i.
Each day, the Discharger shall calculate the CT values for the following conditions:
ii.
Modal contact time under highest daily flow and corresponding chlorine residual.
iii.
Modal contact time under lowest daily flow and corresponding chlorine residual.
iv.
Lowest chlorine residual and corresponding modal contact time.
Highest chlorine residual and corresponding modal contact time.
The lowest calculated CT value under the aforementioned conditions shall be reported as
c. Rtheep doaritliyn CgT. value on the monthly SMR.
If the chlorine disinfection CT is less than 450 mg-min/L or if the chlorination
equipment fails, the event shall be reported in the monthly SMR and the incident shall be
reported to the Regional Water Board and DDW by telephone within 24 hours in
accordance with Provision VIII.O of the Order. A written report describing the incident and
the actions undertaken in response shall be included in the monthly SMR. The report shall
describe the measures taken to bring the discharge into compliance. Upon discovery of any
equipment failure or failure to achieve 450 mg-min/L after disinfection, inadequately
treated and disinfected wastewater shall be diverted to a temporary storage basin or an
2. Sludupgset rMeaomn iptroorciensgs (foMr oadneitqouraitne gtr Leaotcmaetniot.n BIO-001)
a.
Sludge sampling shall be conducted according to the requirements specified by the location
b. and type of disposal activities undertaken.
Sampling records shall be retained for a minimum of 5 years. A log shall be maintained for
sludge quantities generated and of handling and disposal activities. The frequency of entries
is discretionary however, the log must be complete enough to serve as a basis for
developing the Sludge Handling and Disposal report that is required as part of the Annual
3. SepRtaegpeo artn. d Trucked Wastewater Monitoring (Monitoring Location SEP-001)
a.
The Discharger shall monitor and report the volume of wastewater and septage accepted in
its monthly SMRs. Reporting shall include the name of the hauler, location from which the
trucked waste came, and volume of trucked waste received.
Attachment D – Monitoring and Reporting Program D-5
Order No. R1-2019-0007
Airport-Larkfield-Wikiup Sanitation Zone WWTF
b.
For each septage load delivered to the Facility, the Discharger shall require the hauler to
collect and report a pH value representative of the load. Additional monitoring shall be
conducted, as needed, to ensure that the Discharger does not accept any septage loads that
VI. REPORTINGco RuEldQ cUaIuRsEe MupEsNeTt Sco nditions at the Facility or pass-through of pollutants.
A. Self-Monitoring Reports (SMRs)
1.
The Discharger shall submit monthly SMRs including the results for all monitoring specified in
this MRP. If the Discharger monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by this Order,
the results of this monitoring shall be included in the calculations and reporting of the data
2. submitted in the monthly SMRs.
Monthly SMRs shall be submitted by the first day of the second calendar month, following the
month of sampling. All monitoring results shall include complete laboratory data sheets for
each analysis and be submitted in conjunction with the monthly SMR. Annual summary reports
3. shall be submitted by March 1 each year.
Monitoring periods for all required monitoring shall be completed according to the following
scThaebdluel eD: - 4. Monitoring Periods and Reporting Schedule
Sampling
Monitoring Period Begins On Monitoring Period
Frequency
(Midnight through 11:59 PM) or
any 24-hour period that
Daily Permit Effective Date
reasonably represents a calendar
day for purposes of sampling.
Sunday following permit effective date or
Weekly Sunday through Saturday
on permit effective date if on a Sunday
First day of calendar month following st
1 day of calendar month
permit effective date or on permit
Monthly through last day of calendar
effective date if that date is first day of
month
the month
January 1 following (or on) permit
Annually January 1 through December 31
effective date
4.
The Discharger shall report with each sample result the applicable ML, the RL and the current
5.
MDL, as determined by the procedure in Standard Methods.
The Discharger shall report the results of analytical determinations for the presence of chemical
a.
constituents in a sample using the following reporting protocols:
Sample results greater than or equal to the reported ML shall be reported as measured by
b.
the laboratory (i.e., the measured chemical concentration in the sample).
Sample results less than the RL, but greater than or equal to the laboratory’s MDL, shall be
reported as “Detected, but Not Quantified,” or DNQ. The estimated chemical concentration
of the sample shall also be reported.
Attachment D – Monitoring and Reporting Program D-6
Order No. R1-2019-0007
Airport-Larkfield-Wikiup Sanitation Zone WWTF
For the purposes of data collection, the laboratory shall write the estimated chemical
concentration next to DNQ as well as the words “Estimated Concentration” (may be
shortened to “Est. Conc.”). The laboratory may, if such information is available, include
numerical estimates of the data quality for the reported result. Numerical estimates of data
quality may be percent accuracy (+ a percentage of the reported value), numerical ranges
c.
(low to high), or any other means considered appropriate by the laboratory.
d.
Sample results less than the laboratory’s MDL shall be reported as “Not Detected,” or ND.
The Discharger shall instruct laboratories to establish calibration standards so that the ML
value (or its equivalent if there is differential treatment of samples relative to calibration
standards) is the lowest calibration standard. At no time is the Discharger to use analytical
6. data derived from extrapolation beyond the lowest point of the calibration curve.
The Discharger shall submit self-monitoring reports (SMRs) in accordance with the following
are. quirements:
The Discharger shall arrange all reported data in a tabular format. The data shall be
summarized to clearly illustrate whether the Facility is operating in compliance with
b.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

