[Page 76]
1. Existing Treatment Configuration.
Primary wastewater treatment consists of mechanical
bar screens, grit removal, and two primary clarifiers. Primary solids are sent to two
anaerobic digesters, sludge drying beds, and a sludge composting operation. Influent flows
above 5.0 mgd are diverted around primary treatment directly to the oxidation ponds.
Secondary treatment is accomplished using two oxidation ponds 22.4 acres and 17.3 acres
in size, respectively, and six treatment marshes. Detention time in the Facility, prior to
enhanced treatment in the AMWS, is approximately 39 days during average dry weather
design flow periods. Effluent is disinfected with chlorine and dechlorinated with sulfur
dioxide prior to discharged. Treated effluent is continuously commingled with effluent from
the AMWS, disinfected, and split, flowing by gravity either to Humboldt Bay or again
through the AMWS. The result is disinfected secondary effluent, but not all effluent receives
the benefit of enhanced treatment through the AMWS before discharge to Humboldt Bay
and some effluent may be chlorinated multiple times, increasing the opportunity to form
disinfection byproducts above water quality objectives. The average flow through the
AMWS during the previous permit (August 2012 through April 2019) was 1.14 mgd with a
2. Upgraded Treatment Configuration.
maximum flow of 2.3 mgd.
The Permittee is planning to upgrade the Facility in
two phases. Phase One of the

[Page 77]
Point 003. At the design average dry weather flow, detention time in the AMWS is
approximately 60 days and results in full secondary treated effluent. Effluent from the
AMWS will be discharged to the brackish marsh at Discharge Point 003. Key components of
enhanced treatment provided by the AMWS include settling and clarification. The Regional
Water Board finds the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Proposed Upgrade Project will consist of rehabilitation of the
headworks and primary clarifier, new aerators in oxidation pond one, addition of a baffle
1
State Water Board Order No. 79-20, May 17, 1979
2
Gearhart, R.A., B. Finney, S. Wilbur, J. Williams, D. Hill, and S. Sundberg, City of Arcata Marsh Pilot Project, Effluent
Quality Results System Design Management, Project No: C-06-2270, State of California Water Resources Control
Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
3
Gearhart, R.A., S. Wilbur, H. Holbrook, and M. Ives, City of Arcata Marsh and Pilot Project, Wetland Bacteria
Speciation and Harvesting Effect on Water Quality, Project No: 3-154-500-0, State of California Water Resources
Control Board, Sacramento, CA, 1983.
4
Regional Water Board, Resolution No. 83-9, July 28, 1983
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
[Page 77]
wall and aerators in oxidation pond two, improvements to multiple pump stations,
construction of the UV disinfection system and the construction of piping for Discharge
Point 003. Completion of this phase will allow for peak flows to be discharged to Discharge
Point 003.
Phase Two of the project will include construction of the oxidation ditch, secondary
clarifiers, return activated sludge pump station, an alkalinity feed station and rehabilitation
of the anaerobic digester. The rehabilitation of the anaerobic digester will include digester
cleaning, replacing digester covers, replacing the boiler/heat exchanger, replacing the
mixing and heating piping in the primary digester as needed, adding a sludge thickening
system and relocating composting facilities to a new area on site. Completion of this phase
will allow the Permittee to comply with final effluent limitations for ammonia at Discharge
Point 001 and Discharge Point 003 as well as more stringent BOD and TSS limitations at
Discharge Point 002. Time Schedule Order No. R1-2019-0011 includes task and compliance
dates for completion of Phase One and Phase Two of the Proposed Upgrade Project.
The wetland treatment system train and parallel oxidation ditch train will each treat a
portion of the influent flow at variable percentages. The wetland treatment system will treat
the majority of the influent flow up to 2.3 mgd. The parallel oxidation ditch treatment train
5
will provide BOD removal and year-round full nitrification treatment capacity to handle the
remainder of the hydraulic capacity needs up to 5.9 mgd.
The Permittee is planning to replace the chlorine disinfection system with an ultraviolet
light (UV) disinfection system, through which commingled effluent from the treatment
wetlands and parallel oxidation ditch will flow prior to discharge to the AMWS at Discharge
Point 002. The Permittee has evaluated the ability to disinfect all flow using UV and is
currently planning to disinfect flows up to 7.6 mgd through the Facility with UV. Wastewater
discharged at Discharge Point 002 will flow through the Allen, Gearheart, and Hauser
marshes in succession. The Permittee will manage flows through Allen, Gearhear