[Page 1]
County in Sections 5, T10N, R13E, MDB&M as shown on Attachment A, which is
incorporated herein. The Assessor's Parcel Numbers for the system is 042-671-01.
The access road to the treatment system is near the intersection of Pearl Road and Garnet
Road in Pollock Pines. The Gold Ridge Forest Property Owners Association owns the land
associated with the treatment system and the EID is responsible for the operation of the
system.
The water supply to the Gold Ridge Forest Subdivision is provided by the El Dorado
Irrigation District main water supply system. Approximately half of the main system's supply
is from Jenkinson Lake. The water supply has low total dissolved solids concentrations
ranging from 35 to 39 mg/L, and hardness ranging from 11 to 16 mg/L as CaC03 based on
data collected in 2016.
The wastewater treatment system is comprised of a gravity collection system, a septic tank
battery, and disposal leachfields. The septic tank battery and leach fields sit on
approximately five acres within a larger common parcel. Currently 46 single family
residential homes are connected to the leachfield system. The capacity of the leachfield
system is 12,500 gpd as an average dry weather flow. The gravity collection system is
designed to convey wastewater to a 19,200-gallon septic tank battery, which is comprised of
twelve 1,600-gallon septic tanks arranged in three parallel trains. The tanks are designed to
provide treatment prior to gravity flow to eight hundred linear feet of leach lines situated on
an approximately 15-degree sloping hillside.
In 2016, influent flow to the septic tank battery ranged from approximately 4,000 gpd in July
and August to 10,000 gpd in November. Based on an influent sampling event conducted on
22 September 2016, TDS, sodium and chloride in the influentwere 34 mg/L, 5.4 mg/L and
5.7 mg/L, respectively. The septic tanks are pumped annually. In 2016, a total of 15,000
gallons of septage was removed. The septage is hauled to the District's Deer Creek
Wastewater Treatment Plant, which is regulated under National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Order R5-2014-0081.
Surrounding land uses include single family homes and natural forest. There are three
seasonai drainage courses in the vicinity of the ieach fieid: one crosses to the north of the
septic tank battery, one crosses to the north of the existing leach field, and one is about
300 feet downslope of the leachfield. Because the Gold Ridge Forest Subdivision is on the
[Page 2]
Jim Abercrombie -3 - 6 August 2019
El Dorado Irrigation District
EID's main water supply system and surrounding land uses are single family homes, there
are no wells in the vicinity of the leachfield. Rainfall runoff from the site is downslope to an
unnamed tributary to Jenkinson Lake, which is tributary to Sly Park Creek. Sly Park Creek is
tributary to Camp Creek, which is tributary to the North Fork of the Cosumnes River.·
SITE-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
Note that the General Order contains prohibitions and specifications that apply to all
wastewater treatment systems as well as those that only

===PLANNED CHANGES===

