The WWTF flow schematic is show on Attachment B of the NOA. The WWTF consists
a 5,000-gallon concrete storage tank septage receiving station, a headworks (including
a manual bar screen and grinder), influent flow meter, two aerated equalization basins,
four aeration basins, four rectangular secondary clarifiers, chlorine contact basins,
effluent flow meter, and two effluent storage tanks (storage capacity of 10,000 gallons
and 250,000 gallons). Treated effluent is discharged from the effluent storage tanks (via
gravity flow) to either the leach fields during the winter (design capacity of 82,000 gpd)
or the spray fields during the summer (disposal capacity of 170,000 gpd). For biosolids
storage and treatment, the Facility has five aerobic digesters, four outdoor concrete
lined sludge drying beds, and two indoor vacuum-assisted sludge drying beds.
Soda ash is added at the aerated equalization basins for pH adjustment. Currently, only
two aeration basins are operational while the other two aeration basins function as
overflow for the equalization basins. A polymer is added at the aeration basins. Two of
the four clarifiers are currently operational. Also, only aerobic digesters 4 and 5 are
currently operational while aerobic digesters 1, 2, and 3 have not been in service for
years. The indoor vacuum-assisted sludge drying beds are also currently not in use.
According to the RWD, the WWTF is designed for a rehabilitation project to be
constructed in fall of 2021. The rehabilitation project will include converting the current
coarse bubble aeration to fine bubble aeration as well as rehabilitation of the sludge
handling practices. After the rehabilitation, the WWTF will treat a peak capacity of
95,000 gpd. The General Order states that domestic wastewater treatment systems
discharging under 100,000 gpd are eligible for coverage.
Waste Discharge Requirements 88-031 includes the following conditions and effluent
limits:
United States Department of Interior - 4 - 12 August 2020
Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks
Clover Creek WWTF
a) Prohibits discharge to the spray field in winter months (December through February).
b) 30-day average daily flow limit of 170,00 gpd to the spray field and 82,000 gpd to the
leach field.
c) Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and suspended solids

===PLANNED CHANGES===

