currently serves a population of approximately 9,000.
Influent enters the headworks of the Facility and is processed through macerators
(i.e., channel grinders) and into a wet well. Plant return flows from the belt press
and waste stream mix with influent in the wet well. Wastewater is then conveyed to
the secondary treatment system, which consists of two 370,000-gallon aeration
basins, four rectangular clarifiers, chlorination in two chlorine contact chambers with
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
MONTECITO SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2022-0010
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0047899
sodium hypochlorite, and dechlorination in an effluent channel with sodium bisulfite,
prior to discharge through the ocean outfall at Discharge Point 001. The design
average dry weather flow rate for the Facility is 1.5 MGD. The average monthly
effluent flow rate January 2017 through June 2021 ranged from 0.35 MGD to 1.06
MGD, with a peak instantaneous effluent flow of 7.76 MGD during the same time
period.
Less than 35,000 gallons per day (GPD) of effluent from the chlorine contact
chambers is used for foam control channel spray, rotary screen spray, plant wash
down needs, dissolved air floatation thickener (DAFT) process water, and belt
press wash water at the Facility.
The District has installed a small pilot recycled water facility to evaluate producing
recycled water in the future. The system operates by sending disinfected
secondary effluent water to an ultrafiltration membrane followed by a reverse
osmosis membrane to reduce total dissolved solids. The processed water is
stored in an onsite reservoir and used for plant processes onsite and water for
cleaning operations within the collection system.
Settled sludge from the secondary clarifiers is collected in the Return Activated
Sludge (RAS)/Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) Tank. A side stream rotary micro
screening process removes rags and foreign materials from the tank prior to WAS
being pumped to the DAFT. Thickened sludge is then pumped to an aerobic
digester, and the remaining wastewater is combined with DAFT process water prior
to flowing to the subnate tank and being combined with the main influent flow prior
to the influent pump station. Sludge from the aerobic digesters is dewatered using a
belt press, and biosolids are stockpiled in holding bins prior to disposal by
composting facility.
Bypass piping also allows for flow configurations related to WAS bypassing the
DAFT to the digester, WAS bypassing the DAFT and digester directly to the belt
press, and DAFT thickened sludge bypassing the digester to the belt press.
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

