[Page 100]
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment
The treatment system consists of a headworks, an aeration pond (also
known as the South Pond), a settling pond (also known as the North Pond),
microfiltration, chlorine disinfection with sodium hypochlorite and
dechlorination with sodium bisulfite. Treated wastewater is discharged to an
approximately 3.25-million-gallon effluent storage pond used for storage of
advanced treated wastewater prior to discharge to Jones Creek or the
recycled water system.
The headworks include a rotary hydroscreen system, a screenings washer,
and a metering flume. Influent flows from a 12-inch pipeline to the rotary
hydroscreen system. After solids removal, influent flows through a 3-inch
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 101]
Order No. R1-2024-0004
Forestville Water District
Parshall flume for flow measurement. The cleaned and dewatered solids are
disposed of at a landfill.
Wastewater from the headworks flows by gravity to the east end of the
aeration pond. The pond has a volumetric capacity of 2.93 million gallons,
and is divided into three baffled cells to reduce short-circuiting. The first cell
contains two 7.5-horsepower aerators that run continuously, the second cell
contains one 5-horsepower aerator that also runs continuously, and the third
cell contains a 3-horsepower aerator, set on a timer, to create aerobic and
anoxic conditions within the pond. Based on the average dry weather
treatment capacity, the theoretical detention time in the pond is 24.8 days.
Wastewater flows from cell to cell and exists from the westernmost cell into
the settling pond.
The settling pond (also known as the North Pond) is used for storage during
high flows and for filter backwashes. The settling pond has a total volume of
0.75 million gallons. Wastewater from the settling pond is recirculated to the
aeration pond as necessary.
Wastewater from the aeration pond is pumped to the filtration system. To
maintain cleanliness in the filters, the secondary effluent is pre-chlorinated
using sodium hypochlorite prior to filtration. Tertiary treatment is achieved in
the microfiltration system. The microfiltration system consists of two
treatment trains each with a holding tank, strainer, and three banks of 12
microza microfiltration modules (water flows from the outside-in). The
microfiltration building has been designed to accommodate a third treatment
train if necessary. The microfiltration system is operated in accordance with
the manufacturer’s operations manual and State Water Resources Control
Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking Water (DDW) requirements.
Where the manufacturer’s recommendations are less stringent than DDW
requirements, DDW requirements take precedence.
From the microfiltration system, filtered wastewater flows to the chlorine
contact tank by gravity through an 8-inch pipeline. A chlorine gas system
was replaced with a sodium hypochlorite system in May 2014. Sodium
hypochlorite is injected into the 8-inch influent line prior to entering the
chlorine contact tank using an injection quill assembly. Sodium hypochlorite
is stored in a 540-gallon tank and is conveyed to the injection point through a
1-inch line by a pair of peristaltic pumps. Two peristaltic pumps are utilized
each with a rated application rate of 100 gallons per day. The dosing of
sodium hypochlorite is a set rate and is not flow- or demand-paced. The
chemical pump rate is manually adjusted based on the chlorine residual or
the filter process flow rate.
Chlorinated effluent then flows into one of two baffled concrete chambers. A
chlorine contact tank tracer study conducted in August 2005 demonstrated
that the contact time is 105 minutes at the peak weekly treatment plant
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 102]
Order No. R1-2024-0004
Forestville Water District
design flow of 0.576 mgd, and that a final chlorine residual of 4.3 mg/L is
needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L at peak weekly design
flow. The study also demonstrate

[Page 102]
Forestville Water District
design flow of 0.576 mgd, and that a final chlorine residual of 4.3 mg/L is
needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-min/L at peak weekly design
flow. The study also demonstrated that when the filter flow exceeds 0.576
mgd, up to the peak wet weather daily design flow of 0.780 mgd, a final
chlorine residual of 5.3 mg/L is needed to maintain a contact time of 450 mg-
min/L. After flowing through the chlorine contact tank, before discharge to the
effluent storage pond, the chlorinated effluent is dechlorinated using sodium
bisulfite.
After treatment, the advanced treated effluent is discharged to an on-site
effluent storage pond prior to discharge to the recycled water system or the
surface water discharge system. The maximum capacity of the existing on-
site storage pond is 3.25 million gallons. Additional on-site storage capacity
may also be available within the treatment ponds during low flow periods.
The storage ponds allow the amount of discharge to be controlled to protect
beneficial uses of the receiving water and provide a source of recycled water
during the discharge prohibition period, as further described in section 2.2,
below.
2.1.3. Biosolids Management
Biosolids generated during the treatment process accumulate in the aeration
and settling ponds, where they undergo anaerobic digestion and
densification. Over time, the volume of settled solids increases, reducing the
retention time of flow through the pond. Facility design recommendations are
that the settling pond provide a minimum of 12 hours detention time at the
peak week wet weather flow, at maximum allowable water depth.
Accordingly, 0.46 million gallons of settling pond capacity is available for
solids accumulation. This volume is equivalent to a depth of 6.5 feet. Solids
were removed from both the North and South ponds in 2012, for the first time
since construction of the tertiary facilities in 2001. During the 2012 biosolids
removal event, approximately 99 dry tons of solids were removed from the
ponds and land applied by Synagro Technologies, Inc. At present, samples
show that neither pond contains a substantial quantity of biosolids. The
Permittee does not anticipate needing to remove biosolids within the term of
this permit.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
2.2.1. The Facility is located within the Guerneville Hydrologic Subarea of the
Lower Russian River Hydrologic Area, within the Russian River
Hydrologic Unit.
2.2.2. Year-round, the Permittee discharges advanced treated wastewater to a
3.25-million-gallon effluent storage pond prior to discharge to the recycled
water system or the surface water discharge system.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
[Page 103]
Order No. R1-2024-0004
Forestville Water District
2.2.3. During the wet weather season (October 1 through May 14), effluent
treated in accordance with permit requirements in section 4.1. of the
Order, may be discharged from the on-site effluent storage pond via a
one quarter mile outfall pipe to Jones Creek at Discharge Point 002.
Jones Creek is a water of the United States and tributary to the Russian
River via Green Valley Creek at 38° 27’ 58” N latitude and 122° 53’ 18” W
longitude.
2.2.4. During the dry weather season (May 15 through September 30), and
other periods as allowed under this Order, treated wastewater from the
3.25-million-gallon effluent storage pond is recycled for urban and
agricultural irrigation, including frost control on vineyards (Discharge
Point 003). The existing irrigation system includes approximately 296
acres of agricultural land with an irrigable capacity of 54 acre-feet and 18
acres of urban land with an irrigable capacity of approximately 39 acre-
feet. The Permittee has written agreements with individual recycled water
custom

===PLANNED CHANGES===

