[Page 5]
2. Any activity that produces a waste and discharges to existing high quality
waters will be required to meet Waste Discharge Requirements that will result
in the best practicable treatment or control of the discharge necessary to
assure pollution or nuisance will not occur, and the highest water quality
[1] The Board interprets “high quality waters” as the best water quality that has existed
since the Policy was adopted in 1968 after considering any subsequently authorized
degradation that has been allowed in compliance with the Policy.
[Page 6]
Waste Discharge Requirements - 7 - February 8, 2024
Willow Creek Community Services District WWTF
Order No. R1-2024-0005
consistent with the maximum benefit to the people of the state will be
maintained.
This Order allows discharge to groundwater considered high quality groundwater
for nitrogen, Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), and coliform organisms and is
considered a potential source of drinking water consistent with SWRCB Resolution
No. 88-63 Sources of Drinking Water. This Order is consistent with Resolution No.
68-16 because implementation of the Order will result in Best Practicable
Treatment or Control of the discharge and lead to a net benefit to water quality by
providing a higher level of treatment and control than individual septic systems,
some of which are failing due to age and poor site conditions.
Best Practicable Treatment and Control at this facility consists of a new
wastewater collection system, treatment plant, and subsurface disposal leach field.
Treatment will consist of solids settling in septic tanks and recirculating this primary
treated effluent through an Orenco Advantex treatment plant. Secondary treated
effluent will be conveyed to a leach field sized to provide redundancy and to
provide a minimum separation from groundwater of about 4 feet. The manner of
waste treatment and disposal are consistent with the manner of treatment and
disposal at similarly situated facilities. This Order contains discharge prohibitions,
effluent limitations, receiving water limitations, monitoring requirements, and a
requirement for the Discharger to assess

===PLANNED CHANGES===

