The Facility is designed to treat an average dry weather flow of 1.4 mgd and a
maximum peak wet weather flow of 4.0 mgd. The treatment system consists of
influent screening and grit removal; biological removal of biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) and nitrogen in aerobic, anoxic, and pre-anoxic basins;
microfiltration through a membrane bioreactor (MBR); ultraviolet (UV) light
disinfection; and return activated sludge pumping from the MBR back to the
aeration basins. Waste activated sludge pumping removes excessive biomass
from the system, followed by a proprietary sludge digestion process, dewatering
via centrifuge, and disposal to a Class III solid waste landfill.
The MBR combines the secondary biological treatment and immersed
membrane filtration processes. The immersed membrane filtration process
separates suspended solids from the wastewater using a very fine filter (i.e.,
ultrafilter). The MBR system at the Facility consists of five membrane tanks
which contain immersed membrane filters with a total filter area of at least
250,000 square feet. The MBR system is designed to treat a peak daily flow of
4.0 mgd in four tanks with a fifth membrane tank, pump, and compressor
available for standby capacity. Instantaneous peak inflows may exceed 4.0 mgd,
and the headworks structure is sized to accommodate peak inflow spikes up to
9.6 mgd.
Disinfection is achieved in an open channel UV disinfection system with
sufficient low pressure/high output lamps to disinfect a peak daily flow of 4.0
mgd. The UV disinfection system is located downstream of the MBR tanks. The
MBR filtrate pumps discharge directly to the UV basin. Filtered and UV
disinfected wastewater flows by gravity to the 25 million gallon recycled water
storage pond, 15 million gallon recycled water storage pond, or Basalt Pond.
The Facility includes a 5 million gallon aerated influent equalization basin and a
3.35 million gallon equalization basin, which provides equalization storage
capacity for extended wet weather flows and plant return flows. The Permittee
has the ability to divert inadequately treated wastewater from downstream of the
UV disinfection system and return it to the headworks for re-treatment.
2.1.3. Recycled Water
The Permittee produces disinfected tertiary recycled water. The Facility has two
recycled water storage ponds, 25 million gallon and 15 million gallon capacity,
with synthetic liners to provide storage for the disinfected tertiary treated
recycled water and delivery it to authorized recycled water users. Recycled
water is delivered by an effluent pump station from the recycled water storage
pond to the recycled water system or is gravity fed to the Basalt Pond,
depending upon seasonal requirements.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
CITY OF HEALDSBURG ORDER R1-2022-0017
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0025135
The Permittee has 41,300 linear feet of pipeline to deliver recycled water for
agricultural, industrial, and construction uses. Approximately 1,170 acres of
vineyards are directly connected to the pipeline. Additionally, the Permittee
operates two filling stations for the trucked recycled water program. Trucked
recycled water is used for construction uses (primarily soil compaction and dust
control), non-dairy livestock drinking water, and landscape and vineyard
irrigation, consistent with agronomic demand. Irrigation occurs primarily during
spring, summer, and fall and may occur during dry periods in the winter. The
filling stations are located at 340 Foreman Lane and 280 Kinley Lane. Syar
Industries, Inc., operates its own recycled water hydrant at 13666 Healdsburg
Avenue. The hydrant is used to fill Syar water trucks for dust control at the
aggregate processing facility. Additionally, Syar Industries Inc. has installed a
pipeline on its property to utilize recycled water for washing the aggregate
materials used in asphalt and concrete production.
This Order includes requirements for the production of recycled water at the
Facility. The use of recycled water from the Facility is covered separately under
State Water Resources Control Board Order No. WQ 2016-0068-DWQ, General
Waste Discharge Requirements for Recycled Water Use (Recycled Water
General Order), and any subsequent revision thereof.
2.1.4. Biosolids
The Permittee uses a proprietary solids removal and digestion process that
combines aerobic and anaerobic processes. Solids are periodically removed
from the biological process and transferred to two digester tanks, referred to as
interchange reactors. Transfer to the interchange reactors occurs in a daily
decant/fill process, where decanted clear liquid from the interchange reactors is
returned to the biological process, and the volume decanted is replaced with
solids from the biological process. All solids transferred from the biological
process to the interchange tanks are first passed through a 250 micron rotary
drum screen to remove inert non-biodegradable material, which is compacted
and conveyed to a separate dumpster. In the final solids removal step, digested
solids are pumped from the interchange reactor tanks, dosed with polymer for
thickening, and then dewatered in a centrifuge and conveyed to a dumpster. All
solids are then transported for disposal at Redwood Landfill in Marin County or
Hay Road Landfill in Solano County.
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

