Nic Coons I 44569
2.2. The Wastewater System is comprised of an advanced integrated
wastewater pond system (pond system) and can treat 600,000 gallons per day
to a secondary treatment level. Pond systems are typically comprised of
advanced facultative ponds with an anaerobic pit, digester pit, and aerated
zone (primary treatment), secondary facultative ponds with digester pits and
aerated zone (secondary treatment), secondary ponds backflow to primary
ponds, and maturation/settling ponds (polishing). In the advanced facultative
ponds (primary treatment), there is an anaerobic and aerobic zone. The
Meadowbrook WWTF uses two treatment trains (1 and 2) for primary and
secondary treatment. Flow is mixed following primary and secondary treatment
for final polishing in three maturation ponds in series. The Wastewater System
consists of the treatment technologies and treatment capabilities shown in
Table 3.
- 2 -
Templeton Community Services District March 23, 2026
Meadowbrook WWTF
Table 3. Treatment Technology and Capacity5
The headworks includes a bar screen and Parkson Aqua
Headworks/Preliminary Guard with Screenings Screw Classifier
Treatment
Headworks capacity (gpd): 2,500,000
Flow is diverted to two aerated ponds in parallel. The
ponds exhibit approximately 4.1 days and 10-day
hydraulic retention time for the anaerobic pit and aerated
Primary Treatment zone, respectively. Following primary treatment, flow is
mixed between the two ponds, then diverted to two
secondary treatment ponds.
Primary ponds treatment capacity (gpd): 600,000
Wastewater is directed into two sets of secondary aerated
ponds, operated in parallel. Each pond includes total
digester volume of 110,000 gallons and an aerated
treatment volume of 1,190,000 gallons. Following this,
wastewater is directed to three small polishing ponds in
Secondary Treatment
series, each with approximately 700,000 gallons of
treatment volume, then the two larger polishing ponds in
series, with a total volume of approximately 9 million
gallons.
Secondary ponds treatment capacity (gpd): 600,000
The system includes one effluent and wet-weather
Effluent Storage/Wet storage pond that provides approximately 21 million
Weather Storage gallons of operational storage prior to wastewater
disposal.
Treated effluent is disposed of at the Selby Percolation
Site (Figure 2), which consists of seven percolation ponds
with a combined surface area of approximately 4.4 acres.
As an alternative disposal option, the facility maintains a
Wastewater Disposal
25-acre sprayfield (Figure 3) for use when discharge to
Method
the percolation ponds is not feasible and onsite storage is
limited.
Disposal capacity (gpd): 600,000
Advanced integrated wastewater pond systems are
Biosolids/Sludge
designed to not require sludge handling. Meadowbrook
Production and
WWTF staff obtain sludge depth measurements semi-
Handling
annually.
5 Templeton CSD is currently updating its WWTF Master Plan, including review of treatment and disposal
capacities.
- 3 -
Templeton Community Services District March 23, 2026
Meadowbrook WWTF
2.3. A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is
included in Table 4, which were reported in Templeton CSD’s quarterly
monitoring reports. The Central Coast Water Board used reported effluent
water quality data to establish the effluent and groundwater limitations in the
Wastewater System Specific Requirements and Limitations Section below.
Table 4.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

