to provide for additional treatment capacity.
7. The WWTF expansion project, which may be partly financed by the State Revolving Fund, will
reportedly include: upgrading and expanding the headworks with new influent bar screen and flow
meter; new grit chamber and a 1.2 mgd Biolac system; 0.3 mgd facultative pond; new final clarifier;
return activated sludge/waste activated sludge pump station; new solar sludge drying beds; effluent
holding pond with upgraded piping and effluent pumps. The design capacity of the expanded
WWTF will be 1.5 mgd. The Discharger expects to complete construction of the expanded WWTF
by July 2002. The Discharger has not yet satisfied for the WWTF expansion project the provisions
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code Section 21000, et
seq.).
8. The Discharger’s consultant (Carollo Engineers) submitted a technical report, dated 24 March 1999,
that includes a water balance of WWTF effluent storage and disposal capacity at the expanded flow
rate of 1.5 mgd. The water balance considers annual storm water that would occur once every 100
years, distributed monthly in accordance with historic rainfall patterns. The report indicates that the
current designated disposal area and storage capacity are adequate to handle the expanded flows.
9. The United States Department of Energy (USDOE) owns the 135-acres designated disposal area.
The City of Taft has a short-term lease of this land and reports that it will secure the property either
by purchase or long-term lease. The City of Taft, Taft Heights Sanitation District, Ford City
Sanitation District, and the USDOE are hereafter jointly referred to as Discharger.
10. Soils in the WWTF vicinity and designated disposal area consist of silty clayey sands. Taft is in
Seismic Risk Zone 4, according to the Uniform Building Code. The WWTF is near two fault lines:
The San Andreas fault and the Shaker fault are approximately 8.5 and 2 miles, respectively,
southwest of Taft.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-080 -4-
TAFT, TAFT HEIGHTS, FORD CITY, AND USDOE
TAFT WWTF
KERN COUNTY
11. Area groundwater is at an approximate depth of 400 to 800 feet below ground surface, and is of
poor mineral quality with EC (conductivity at 25oC) of 4000 to 6000 mhos/cm and Total
Dissolved Solids greater than 4,000 mg/l, which rapidly diminishes in quality with depth.
12. Source water for residential and commercial use is groundwater supplied by West Kern County
Water District and is pumped from wells near the Kern River and Elk Hills. Recent water supply
reports from West Kern County Water District indicate the source water has an EC of about
370 µmhos/cm, total dissolved solids concentration of about 290 mg/l, and nitrate-nitrogen
concentration of about 1.0 mg/l.
13. Due to the poor quality of area groundwater and to the need to import potable water to the area,
there is little if any agricultural land use in the general vicinity. Years ago, the Discharger reclaimed
effluent on the designated disposal area. But, due to reported difficulties of securing farm services,
the designated disposal area now only supports the growth of native grasses, which the Discharger
removes by periodic burning.
14. Discharger monitoring reports for 1998 and 1999 show that winter flows are not higher than
summer flows, indicating there is no significant inflow and infiltration to the collection system
during winter months.
15. In its RWD, the Discharger has indicated the presence of boron, zinc, and chlorinated organic
compounds in the discharge.
16. The WWTF is outside the 500-year flood plain, according to a National Flood Insurance Program
map published in January 1992. The southwest corner of the treatment plant property extends
across a portion of Sandy Creek. The creek bed is within the 100-year flood plain, not suitable for
construction of any future treatment units.
17. The WWTF and Discharges 001 and 002 are within the South Valley Floor Hydrologic Unit and
Kern Delta Hydrologic Area (No. 557.20), as depicted on interagency hydrologic maps prepared by
the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) in August 1986.
18. The Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake Basin, Second Edition, (hereafter Basin Plan),
designates beneficial uses, establishes water quality objectives, and contains implementation plans
and policies, for Basin waters. These requirements implement the Basin Plan.
19. Sandy Creek is an ephemeral stream that flows through a very remote area surrounded by oil fields
and private farmland and terminates on agricultural land on the San Joaquin Valley floor about five
miles downstream of the discharge point. As such, Sandy Creek is a West Side Stream that is
tributary to Valley Floor Waters. The designated beneficial uses of West Side Streams and Valley
Floor Waters, as identified in the Basin Plan, include industrial and agricultural supply, industrial
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-080 -5-
TAFT, TAFT HEIGHTS, FORD CITY, AND USDOE
TAFT WWTF
KERN COUNTY
process supply, water contact and noncontact water recreation, warm fresh water habitat, wildlife
habitat, preservation of rare and endangered species, and groundwater recharge. In actuality,
however, the ephemeral nature of Sandy Creek precludes the attainment of many, if not all, of these
potential beneficial uses.
20. The Basin Plan identifies the beneficial uses of area groundwater as municipal and industrial supply.
As described in Finding No. 11, the EC of area groundwater ranges from 4000 to
6000 mhos/cm. According to State Water Resources Control Board Resolution No. 88-63,
Adoption of Policy Entitled “Source of Drinking Water,” groundwater with EC concentrations
exceeding 5000 mhos/cm may be considered by a regional board as unsuitable for municipal or
domestic water supply. Area groundwater does not currently supply a public water system, nor is
it reasonably expected to do so in the future. As described in Finding No. 12, all source water for
municipal uses is imported.
21. According to the Basin Plan, discharges to surface waters and evaporation of reclaimable
wastewater will not be acceptable permanent disposal methods where opportunity exists to replace
an existing use or proposed use of fresh water with reclaimed water. As described in Finding No.
13, the area’s land use does not include agricultural operations that could readily offer opportunities
for wastewater reclamation. However, the Basin Plan’s reclamation policies require that project
reports for new or expanded wastewater facilities include plans for wastewater reclamation or the
reasons why this is not possible. Since WWTF effluent had been reclaimed in the past, it is not
inconceivable that it could not be reclaimed in the future.
22. The California Department of Health Services (DHS) has established statewide criteria in Title 22,
California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 60301 et seq., (hereafter Title 22) for the use of
recycled (or reclaimed) water and has developed guidelines for specific uses. The 1988
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between DHS and State Water Resources Control Board on
use of reclaimed water establishes basic principles relative to the agencies hereto and the Regional
Boards. In addition, the MOA allocates primary areas of responsibility and authority between these
agencies, and provides for methods and mechanisms necessary to assure ongoing, continuous future
coordination of activities relative to the use of reclaimed water in California.
23. DHS has no codified regulations directly applicable to levels of disinfection necessary to protect
public health where wastewater is discharged to rivers and streams. However, in its 1992 Uniform
Guidelines for the Disinfection of Wastewater, DHS recommends that the discharge to ephemeral
streams should have a median coliform concentration not exceeding 23 MPN/100 ml in situations
where there is no nearby habitation and limited use of the discharge area.
24. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Board have classified this discharge as a
minor discharge.
25. There are no significant industrial users or categorical industries discharging to the WWTF.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 5-00-080 -6-
TAFT, TAFT HEIGHTS, FORD CITY, AND USDOE
TAFT WWTF
KERN COUNTY
26.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

