MALIBU MESA WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NPDES NO. CA0059099
2.1.2. The Facility provides primary, secondary, and tertiary treatment, with disinfection
by an ultraviolet system. The following are brief descriptions of the major unit
processes, operations, and/or equipment:
a. Primary Treatment: Primary treatment consists of a headwork with comminutor,
a bypass channel with bar screen. An influent flow meter is located after the
bypass channel.
b. Secondary Treatment: Secondary treatment consists of the Walker Process
packaged activated sludge plant that includes an aeration basin with coarse
bubble diffusers, two aeration blowers (one of which is a standby), an aerobic
digester, and a secondary sedimentation basin. Return activated sludge and
waste activated sludge is pumped by airlift pump.
c. Tertiary Treatment: Tertiary treatment is provided through coagulation, rapid
mix, flocculation, and sand filtration. Filtration consists of three continuous
backwash Dynasand® filters. No chlorine is added to the system.
d. Disinfection: Disinfection is provided by four ultraviolet lamps in series.
e. Solids Handling: The waste activated sludge is aerobically digested and
pumped to a centrifuge for partial thickening. The thickened, digested sludge is
stored in a 10,000-gallon underground storage tank prior to hauling to the Donald
C. Tillman Water Reclamation Plant located at 6100 Woodley Avenue, Van Nuys,
California.
f. Operational Emergencies: In the event of upsets or other operational
emergencies at the Facility, wastewater from Pepperdine University can be
pumped to Tapia for treatment under an agreement between Pepperdine
University and Las Virgenes. The wastewater from Malibu Country Estates can
be diverted to the sludge storage tank and hauled to the Donald C. Tillman Water
Reclamation Plant for treatment. In the event of a power failure, the Facility has a
standby diesel-powered generator onsite to prevent the discharge of raw or
inadequately treated sewage.
g. Laboratory Waste Handling: All laboratory waste generated by Pepperdine
University is stored in 55-gallon drums and hauled offsite to a legal point of
disposal.
h. Effluent Pump Station: The tertiary-treated effluent with UV disinfection is
discharged to the Pepperdine University under normal conditions and/or Marie
Canyon Creek under emergency conditions by the Effluent Pump Station.
Effluent samples are pulled from

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to upgrade the facility with a Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) that is
capable of reducing the amount of nitrogen compounds including ammonia from the
effluent discharge to meet discharge requirements. The Project is currently underway
with an anticipated design completion in early 2022. Construction will occur in multiple
phases to keep the plant in service during construction. The new treatment process is
expected to be operational in 2026 after the NPDES permit is renewed with the new
treatment process. The Discharger shall submit a ROWD to the Los Angles Water
Board, which includes the planned physical alterations or additions to the Facility, prior
to the expiration date of this Order or prior to discharging with the new treatment
process, whichever is sooner.
3.