as to preserve the local chaparral ecosystem.
13. Plant Design: The proposed Plant will use membrane filtration and chlorine disinfection to
produce an average of 17,500 gpd of Title 22 non-potable recycled water used for
irrigation and fire suppression. The treatment process utilizes the following components:
A. A 7,800-gallon concrete trash trap/screen;
B. 14,000-gallon concrete equalization tank;
C. Twenty clustered 1,200-gallon anoxic/aerobic treatment tanks;
D. Two membrane filtration units;
E. A chlorine injection system for effluent disinfection;
F. Two 8,000-gallon fiberglass chlorine contact tanks;
G. An effluent sampling station;
H. One 17,500-gallon off-spec water holding tank;
I. An effluent pump station;
J. Two recycled water storage tanks, estimated to hold 700,000 gallons each;
K. A recycled water sampling station;
L. Irrigation pumps and computer management system; and,
M. An irrigation distribution system.
14. Irrigation Control: Areas designated to receive irrigation water will be under the control of
the Discharger and will consist of private land with the necessary permanent easements to
accommodate irrigation equipment. The areas of irrigation are located within Encinal
Canyon in the Malibu Valley Hydrologic Unit. The timing and volume of the irrigation
discharge has been calculated to equal evapotranspiration during night and dry weather
disposal and will be implemented by a computer irrigation management system and
landscape manager. Voluntary discharge to the subsurface through incidental runoff or
over-irrigation is limited by this oversight.
3
BMIF/BSLF II Rancho Malibu Ltd. Order No. R4-2013-0019
Encinal Canyon Water Recycling Plant File No. 90-069
15. Storage: The Plant design is for 100% irrigation recycling. However, if effluent cannot be
discharged through irrigation or during system malfunction, storage is available in the two
700,000-gallon tanks. The storage plan complies with the California Department of Public
Health (CDPH) requirements for alternative disposal.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

