[Page 1]
Elementary School campus and the Junior High, Corfman Middle School. Both
campuses have a combined student and faculty population of approximately 1,300. The
total design capacity of the WWTP is 0.015 million gallons per day (MGD). The
treatment system consists of a single lift station and two distinct packaged treatment
units that operate in series. The first packaged treatment unit includes flow equalization,
an aeration tank, and secondary clarification. The second packaged treatment unit
includes dual media filtration and UV disinfection.
Wastewater first enters the WWTP at the lift station via one of two 3-inch submersible
sewage pumps that pump the wastewater into a 5,000-gallon flow equalization tank. In
the equalization tank wastewater is mixed with return activated sludge under anoxic
conditions to encourage denitrification. The blended influent is then transferred via an
airlift pipe into a 15,592-gallon extended aeration tank, where nitrification takes place.
Following aeration, the stabilized wastewater (mixed liquor) then flows into a 3,758-
gallon circular secondary clarifier, where the mixed liquor's suspended solids are settled
and recirculated back to the flow equalization tank.
[Page 2]
February 10, 2026
Notice of Applicability
McCabe Union Elementary School District 3
McCabe Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plant
The secondary treated effluent then flows over the clarifier's weirs for treatment by two
dual media (sand/anthracite) gravity filters, which are stationed in parallel. Filtered
effluent then passes through an ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection system, which is
comprised of two separate modules ( one is used as a lead unit and the other is
available as a standby unit). As part of the process, biosolids from the wastewater are
dried in drying beds prior to disposal. Treated wastewater effluent is then finally
discharged to one of three evaporation/percolation ponds located south of the campus.
The 3 percolation ponds have a combined area of 12,500 square feet, which can hold a
maximum of 0.015 MGD of effluent. One of the percolation ponds is a surplus to allow a
single pond to be out of service for maintenance at all times. The WWTP treatment
process is illustrated in the Process Flow Schematic diagram in Figure 3. of
Attachment B.
Based on a recent data review of the effluent from January 2022 to December 2025, the
anticipated annual average flow is approximately 4,439 gallons per day (gpd). The
maximum discharge was 23,830 gallons which occurred in February of 202

===PLANNED CHANGES===

