2021 ranged from 1.03 to 3.4 MGD, with an average of 1.86 MGD.
B. The wastewater treatment process at the SPWRF (See Figure 3 for process
flow schematic) consists of preliminary treatment (coarse and fine mechanical
screening and grit removal at the Influent Lift Station), flow equalization (two
flow equalization tanks), secondary treatment (three aeration tanks with
nitrification and denitrification activated sludge), tertiary treatment (six
membrane bioreactors, providing further carbonaceous oxidation,
nitrification/denitrification and solids removal to meet the limits of the WDRs),
and disinfection (UV). Treated and disinfected effluent is discharged to three
percolation ponds (Figure 5). The returned activated sludge is treated at two of
three aerobic digesters (one aerobic digester is for backup) after being
thickened at two thickeners. The solids generated at the aerobic digesters
receive final dewatering at the screw dewatering press. Final solids are hauled
by Synargro to their South Kern Compost Manufacturing Facility where they
are composted to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
Class A reuse standards for agricultural reuse.
C. To address levels of chloride in the effluent, an advanced treatment system,
consisting of reverse osmosis (RO), will be constructed at the SPWRF, which
will be designed to reduce the chloride concentration in the effluent to 110
milligrams per liter (mg/L) or less. The RO system will consist of nanofiltration
and RO units to reduce effluent chloride concentrations followed by a RO brine
concentrator (Figure 4).
D. The City owns and operates the sewer collection system, which conveys
domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater to the SPWRF. Two industrial
users within the City are Aurora Casting (metal foundry) and Saticoy Lemon
(lemon packing house). The City is required to implement a Pretreatment
Program and to comply with requirements for operation and maintenance of
the sewer collection system. The City has been implementing an industrial
wastewater Pretreatment Program for the SPWRF, which has been approved
by the USEPA and the Regional Board.
E. Percolation Ponds
i. The three percolation ponds were built on approximately 34 acres of
agriculture land (Figure 5) and are located along Todd Lane in the Santa
Clara-Santa Paula Groundwater Basin area.
ii. The Regional Board classified the discharge to the percolation pond as a
discharge of treated wastewater to land that is subject to WDRs.
4
City of Santa Paula File No. 06-189
Order No. R4-2018-0022-A01
iii. A hydrologic model completed by the City in 2008 indicated that the
percolation pond have a maximum discharge capacity of 2.6 MGD during
wet years. Therefore, the allowable discharge of the SPWRF was reduced
from 8 MGD to 2.6 MGD in Order No. R4-2010-0074 (amending Order
No. R4-2007-0028).
12. Depth to groundwater within the shallow aquifer at the site ranges from
approximately 15 to 49 feet below ground surface. Groundwater gradients generally
appear to parallel the ground surface, gently sloping downward to the southwest.
During wet years, groundwater may rise to within 10 to 11 feet below ground surface
in the area along the Santa Clara River.
13. On August 23, 2018, the Regional Water Board approved the City’s modified

===PLANNED CHANGES===

