g. Solids Handling: The solids handling facilities at the OWRRF consist of
two gravity thickeners for primary sludge thickening, two dissolved air
flotation thickeners (DAFTs) for waste activated sludge (WAS) thickening,
three anaerobic digesters, and four belt filter presses (BFPs) for dewatering.
Primary sludge and scum is pumped from the primary clarifiers to the gravity
thickeners. The primary sludge feed is combined at the thickener feed
junction box and discharged to the thickener influent well. Polymer is added
to this sludge stream. The purpose of the gravity thickeners is to reduce the
liquid content in the primary sludge sent to the digesters. WAS from the
secondary clarifiers is pumped from the RAS/WAS pump stations to the
DAFTs where polymer is used to improve the separation of the solids from
the liquid in the WAS flow. The DAFTs separate the solids from the liquid in
the WAS flow by using fine air bubbles to float the sludge particles to the
surface, where it is then scraped off. Volume reduction from WAS thickening
benefits the sludge digestion and dewatering processes by reducing the
volume of sludge to be processed, quantity of chemicals required for sludge
conditioning, and amount of heat required for digestion. The thickened WAS
solids and the thickened primary sludge are combined prior to entering the
digesters. The combined thickened solids are preheated and pumped to the
anaerobic digesters. Digester gas produced through the digestion process is
used to run the three cogeneration engines. Digested solids are pumped to
the solids dewatering facility where they are dewatered through four belt filter
presses (BFP’s). Polymer is added to the digested sludge upstream of the
BFPs to enhance dewatering. Dewatered sludge cake is conveyed to trucks
for transport to an offsite landfill. The main purpose of anaerobic digestion is
to biologically decompose organic material in primary and secondary scum
and sludge to a stable form in compliance with regulatory requirements for
final disposal. Anaerobic digestion also reduces the amount of solids to
dewater, reduces the volume of sludge cake that is hauled to the landfill,
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-7
ADOPTED: 05/23/2024
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0054097
reduces pathogens in the sludge and produces digester gas that is high in
methane and useful for fueling other equipment. The BFP system is
designed to concentrate the anaerobically digested sludge from a solids
content of less than 3 percent to a range of 18 to 20 percent.
2.1.3. Water Reclamation. Up to 8 MGD of the secondary-treated effluent from
the OWRRF flows to the AWPF for advanced treatment that includes
microfiltration (MF), reverse osmosis (RO), and ultraviolet/advanced
oxidation process (UV/AOP) to produce up to 6.25 MGD recycled water. The
treatment and use of recycled water from the AWPF is regulated under
Order R4-2020-0051 (File No. 08-070). As previously mentioned, the AWPF
permeate is permitted to be used for nonpotable uses and indirect potable
reuse (Aquifer Storage and Recovery (ASR)), but ASR is not yet in
operation. The MF backwash wastewater is returned to the OWRRF’s
headworks, and up to 1.75 MGD RO brine is commingled with the OWRRF’s
secondary-treated effluent and discharged to the Pacific Ocean.
2.1.4. Pretreatment: The OWRRF has an industrial wastewater Pretreatment
Program which is approved by USEPA and the Los Angeles Water Board.
The City’s staff manages a pretreatment program that consists of 1,303
nondomestic dischargers. Forty-five of those dischargers are classified and
permitted as Significant Industrial Users (SIU), and 12 of the SIUs are
Categorical Industrial Users (CIU). The City also regulates and regularly
inspects nonsignificant nondomestic dischargers, including 2 groundwater
remediation sites, 484 discharging auto shops, and 769 food service
establishments. The City issues temporary permits to groundwater
remediation sites and inspects and samples them annually. The auto shops
and restaurants are permitted, inspected, and sampled yearly. The City
does not accept hauled waste at the publicly owned treatment works.
The Naval Base Ventura County Point Mugu, the Naval Base Ventura
County Port Hueneme, Channel Island Beach Community Services District,
unincorporated areas of Ventura County El Rio and Nyeland Acres and the
City of Oxnard (desalter brine) all discharge to the City’s wastewater
treatment plant, and, with the nondomestic dischargers in this jurisdiction,
are managed through the City’s pretreatment program.
The City’s Local Limits Evaluation Report dated June 2020 proposed new
local limits that were approved by the City on October 7, 2021. The Los
Angeles Water Board approved the pretreatment modifications on July 19,
2021. The City also introduced non-substantial modifications to the mass-
based local limits for TDS and boron in 2022.
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has started work on the following improvement and rehabilitation
projects. None of the projects will increase hydraulic or treatment capacity. All
work, except for the secondary settling tanks, is expected to be complete by the
end of 2025.
Headworks: This project rehabilitates the existing headworks concrete structure
to improve flow metering and odor control. Improvements include replacement of
influent flow meters, rehabilitation of deteriorated concrete, replacement of grit
chamber covers, and the addition of a new odor scrubber to supplement the
existing odor scrubber.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-12
ADOPTED: 05/23/2024
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY NPDES NO. CA0054097
FACILITY
Primary Clarifiers: This project rehabilitates the existing primary clarifiers to
meet seismic requirements, improve pumping systems, and add odor control.
Improvements include replacement of the internal mechanical systems (center
column, center cage, gates, rake arms, skimmer blades, scum box, flushing
valve, and drive motor), installation of new solids and scum pumps, replacement
of underground piping, seismic retrofitting, and installation of a new odor control
system.
Secondary Aeration Basins: This project rehabilitates and upgrades the
secondary aeration basins to meet seismic requirements and improve
operational efficiency. Improvements include repairing deteriorating concrete,
making structural improvements, replacing primary and RAS influent piping,
removing interpass gates, replacing step-feed and effluent gates, installing
baffles, installing new flexible membrane aeration system and associated piping,
installing new mechanical mixers in the anaerobic zones, installing new control
valves and flow meters, and installing a new programmable logic controller and
dissolved oxygen control. After project completion, the aeration basins will
operate in series instead of the current serpentine approach.
Secondary Settling Tanks: This project will rehabilitate 18 secondary settling
tanks over the next five years to improve the existing structural and mechanical
systems. Improvements include repair of deteriorating concrete and the
replacement of all mechanical equipment including chains, sprockets, flights,
drives and scum tubes.
Electrical Equipment: A new primary electrical building is being constructed to
replace the existing building which was built around 1975. The project will
upgrade aging, unreliable, and possibly dangerous electrical equipment. The
entire electrical building, including the electrical components, do not meet the
current codes and are difficult to repair and/or replace. Existing motor control
centers (MCCs) and associated equipment will be replaced at six locations
throughout the plant to improve reliability and safety of the existing electrical
system within the plant. The current MCCs are beyond their useful life and do not
meet current standards.
Emergency Generator: A new 2.0 megawatt generator will be installed to
replace two existing 1.5 megawatt generators that are unreliable, difficult to
repair, and do not meet current air quality standards.
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System: A new and
upgraded SCADA system will replace the existing system to update system
functionality.
Digester: This project will rehabilitate and place into service Digester #2.
Digester #2 has been out of service in excess of 25 years. The addition of this
digester will increase digestion capacity, improve reliability, and add flexibility to
the operation of the process. Improvements include the replacement of the
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
F-13
ADOPTED: 05/23/2024
CITY OF OXNARD ORDER NO. R4-2024-0252
OXNARD WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY NPDES NO. CA0054097
FACILITY
mixing system, heat exchanger, piping and valving, and the construction of a new
concrete roof.
Security: This project will improve security at the plant by replacing the existing
perimeter fence with a taller fence that surrounds the facility and installing up to
20 cameras for complete perimeter coverage.
Future Projects: The Discharger plans on removing the biotowers at some point
in the future after the Secondary Aeration Basin Project is complete. The
biotowers were constructed around 1955 and are no longer structurally sound. In
addition, the biotowers attract snails and filter flies. The snails accumulate in the
Activated Sludge Tanks (ASTs) and reduce the oxygen transfer efficiency of the
process as well as cost the Discharger a significant amount of time in removing
snail shells from the ASTs. A schedule for when the biotowers will be removed
has not yet been determined.
3.