North City Water Reclamation Plant (NCWRP)
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the NCWRP consist of bar screens,
grit removal, chemically enhanced primary sedimentation, flow equalization,
aeration/secondary clarification using a 4-stage Bardenpho process for enhanced nutrient
removal, coagulation followed by deep-bed anthracite filtration, and chlorination for flows
directed to non-potable use (primarily irrigation).
The NCWRP produces tertiary recycled water that complies with the requirements of title 22,
division 4, chapter 3 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR, Title 22 Regulations). The
existing NCWRP has a design capacity of 32 MGD, and the upgraded NCWRP will have a
design capacity of 56.7 MGD.
Up to 42.5 MGD of undisinfected tertiary recycled water will be conveyed from the NCWRP to
the NCPWF. The remaining tertiary recycled water will be used for non-potable purposes
(primarily landscape irrigation) in accordance with Order No. R9-2015-0091, Master Recycling
Permit for the City of San Diego North City Water Reclamation Plant, San Diego County and
any update.
Biosolids and waste sludge generated from the NCWRP is sent to the City’s Metro Biosolids
Center for treatment prior to disposal. The Metro Biosolids Center is regulated separately
under Order No. R9-2017-0007, NPDES No. CA 0107409, Waste Discharge Requirements
and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit for the City of San Diego E.W.
Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean Through the
Point Loma Ocean Outfall.
North City Pure Water Facility (NCPWF)
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the NCPWF will consist of ozone
disinfection, biological activated carbon, membrane filtration using Toray ultrafiltration
membranes, 3-stage reverse osmosis (RO) treatment, ultraviolet light/advanced oxidation
(UV/AOP) using sodium hypochlorite as an oxidant, product-water conditioning using lime and
carbon dioxide injection, and chlorination to maintain a free chlorine residual in the Miramar
Reservoir conveyance pipeline. Advanced treated recycled water from the NCPWF will be
conveyed via the North City Pure Water Pipeline to the North City Pure Water Dechlorination
Facility (shown in Attachment B, Figure B-4) for dechlorination prior to discharge into Miramar
Reservoir.
Approximately 5.91 MGD of RO brine from the NCPWF will be discharged to a brine line
which will convey the brine to the City’s sanitary sewer system. Once in the sanitary sewer
system, RO brine will be transported to the E.W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater Treatment
Plant (Point Loma WWTP) for treatment and discharge to the Pacific Ocean through the Point
Loma Ocean Outfall. The Point Loma WWTP is regulated separately under Order No. R9-
2017-0007, NPDES No. CA 0107409, Waste Discharge Requirements and National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System Permit for the City of San Diego E.W. Blom Point Loma
3 A SWSAP is defined in section 60301.851 of title 22 of the CCR as a project involving the planned placement of
recycled municipal wastewater into a surface water reservoir that is used as a source of domestic drinking
water supply, for the purpose of supplementing the source of domestic drinking water supply.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
CITY OF SAN DIEGO ORDER NO. R9-2020-0001 AS AMENDED BY ORDER NO. R9-2020-0183
NORTH CITY WATER RECLAMATION PLANT AND PURE WATER FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0109398
Wastewater Treatment Plant Discharge to the Pacific Ocean Through the Point Loma Ocean
Outfall and any reissuance.
Additionally, approximately 2.07 MGD of backwash waste from the various NCPWF
processes, and other water not meeting the requirements of the Order will be returned to
NCWRP for additional treatment.
North City Pure Water Pipeline
Advanced treated recycled water will be conveyed from the NCPWF site to Miramar Reservoir
by a 48-inch diameter, 8-mile long pipeline. The pipeline will be designed to handle the
projected peak 32.8 MGD flow rate. At the maximum flow rate, travel time between the
NCPWF and Miramar Reservoir will be approximately two hours. As discussed in section
VI.C.6 of the Order and section VI.B.6 of the Fact Sheet, discharges from the North City Pure
Water Pipeline to the City’s municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) during
maintenance and cleaning of the North City Pure Water Pipeline will be regulated under Order
WQ 2014-0194-DWQ, Statewide NPDES Permit for Drinking Water System Discharges to the
Waters of the United States and any reissuance.
North City Pure Water Dechlorination Facility
The conveyance pipeline will deliver advanced treated recycled water to the North City Pure
Water Dechlorination Facility located immediately south of the Miramar Reservoir dam, at the
north end of Meanley Drive near the entrance of the Miramar DWTP. The North City Pure
Water Dechlorination Facility will achieve dechlorination by injecting sodium bisulfite into the
conveyance pipeline. The rate of sodium bisulfite injection will be controlled to reduce chlorine
residual to non-detectable concentrations.
Miramar Drinking Water Treatment Plant (Miramar DWTP)
Operations at the Facility will be ramped up in stages to ensure that the treatment processes
and reliability features operate as designed and comply with applicable requirements
established by the State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of
Drinking Water (DDW).
Miramar Reservoir is a drinking water storage reservoir with a capacity of 6,682 acre-feet.
The water in the reservoir is withdrawn, blended with imported water, and treated at the
Miramar Drinking Water Treatment Plant (Miramar DWTP) prior to customer distribution.
Once the NCPWF is operating at full capacity, advanced treated recycled water will comprise
100 percent of the Miramar Reservoir supply and will replace imported water as the primary
source of supply water to the Reservoir. The Miramar DWTP has a treatment capacity of 144
MGD, and serves approximately 0.5 million customers within the northern section of the City
of San Diego and the City of Del Mar. The Miramar DWTP is regulated separately under a
water supply permit issued by the DDW.
Water Purification Demonstration Facility (WPDF)
The Discharger constructed a 1 MGD Water Purification Demonstration Facility (WPDF) at
the Facility site to test treatment processes utilized at the full scale NCPWF. Treatment
processes utilized at the WPDF include ozone disinfection, biological activated carbon,
microfiltration, RO, ultraviolet disinfection/advanced oxidation processes. Analyses results
from effluent samples collected from the WPDF from 2011 to 2012 and 2016 to 2017 were
included in the Discharger’s ROWD.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

