[Page 132]
2. La Salina Wastewater Treatment Plant (LSWTP)
The LSWTP is located at 1330 Tait Street in Oceanside, California, adjacent to the mouth
of Loma Alta Creek. Secondary treatment process at the LSWTP is accomplished by
mechanical bar screens, aerated grit removal, flow equalization, primary
sedimentation/clarification, and biological secondary treatment by means of activated
sludge and secondary sedimentation/clarification.
The Discharger’s ROWD stated that the peak monthly design capacity of the LSWTP is 5.5
MGD. This Order carries over the permitted flow of 5.5 MGD from Order No. R9-2011-
0016. From December 2011 to June 2019, the average influent flow into the LSWTP was
2.8 MGD and the average effluent flow from the LSWTP to the OOO was 2.6 MGD.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from the grit removal are collected onsite and
trucked out of state to Cooper Mountain Landfill in Welton, Arizona. The LSWTP features
dissolved air floatation thickening for secondary sludge, anaerobic digestion of primary and
secondary sludge, and belt filter press dewatering of digested sludge. The LSWTP utilizes
Option 1 (minimum 38 percent reduction of volatile solids) to reduce vector attraction. The
LSWTP utilizes Alternative 1 (monitoring) for pathogen reduction.
3. Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility (MBGPF)
The MBGPF, located northwest of the intersection of Fireside Street and Heritage Street in
Oceanside, California, treats brackish groundwater f

[Page 132]
3. Mission Basin Groundwater Purification Facility (MBGPF)
The MBGPF, located northwest of the intersection of Fireside Street and Heritage Street in
Oceanside, California, treats brackish groundwater for municipal potable water supply. The
MBGPF extracts groundwater from the Mission (HSA 903.11) Basin Aquifer (part of the
larger San Luis Rey Valley groundwater basin).
Treatment at the MBGPF is comprised of chemical pretreatment (hydrochloric acid and
scale inhibitor), cartridge filtration, reverse osmosis (RO) membrane filtration
(demineralization), granular activated carbon (GAC) for removal and reduction of volatile
organics (i.e. 1,2,3-trichloropropane, 1,2-dichloropropane), degasification (for removal of
hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide gases), and post-treatment disinfection by
chloramination (sodium hypochlorite and ammonium hydroxide).
The primary RO process is designed as a two-stage system with a 75% overall recovery
rate. The permitted combined capacity of the MBGPF is 6.37 MGD. There are two RO units
that can produce up to a maximum of 2.2 MGD permeate each (combined total of 4.4
MGD). The RO permeate passes through the GAC system and then is blended with
groundwater that is treated through a manganese greensand filtration system (for iron and
manganese removal) just upstream of the degasifiers. The manganese greensand filtration
system can produce up to a maximum of 1.97 MGD. Disinfection of the blended product
water occurs after the degasifiers. Backwash waste waters produced by the GAC and
manganese greensand filtration systems are discharged to an underground concrete
holding basin and subsequently pumped to the SLRWRF via a 42-inch sewer force main.
The brine waste (reject) from the primary RO process is discharged into a 24-inch ocean
outline line. At maximum design conditions this results in approximately 1.47 MGD of brine
(reject) waste. From December 2011 to February 2019, the average effluent flow f

===PLANNED CHANGES===

