[Page 63]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Sanitary Sewer System and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. The wastewater treatment plant is located at
614 East 5th Street in the City of Benica, Solano County. It provides secondary
treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the City of
Benicia and serves a population of approximately 28,200. No significant
industrial users are located within the service area.
Attachment B provides a map of the area around the treatment plant.
2.1.2. Sanitary Sewer System. The City of Benicia sanitary sewer system conveys
wastewater to the plant and is covered by this Order. The system consists of
23 lift stations and 153 miles of pipelines, including 148 miles of gravity main
and 5 miles of force main.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. Wastewater treatment consists of screening, grinding,
grit removal, primary clarification, biological secondary treatment, disinfection,
and dechlorination. The plant has an average dry weather capacity of 4.5 MGD
and a wet weather capacity of 11 MGD. From February 2020 through January
2024, the plant treated an average of 1.9 MGD and a maximum of 9.4 MGD.
Biological secondary treatment consists of aeration basins and secondary
clarifiers in two parallel treatment trains with a combined capacity of 8.0 MGD.
Primary-treated wastewater over 8.0 MGD is directed to one rotating biological
contactor followed by secondary clarifiers, or to flow equalization. The rotating
biological contactor train can treat about 3.0 MGD. All secondary-treated
effluent is combined in the chlorine mixing chamber and disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge.
During peak flows or upsets, the plant can store up to one million gallons of
influent, primary effluent, or final effluent in seven flow equalization and storage
basins, called multi-purpose storage basins, for later treatment. The basins
(previously used for two decommissioned rotating biological contactor trains)
provide an additional 0.46 million gallons of flow equalization capacity. A wrap-
around pipeline allows the plant to pump effluent from the final effluent pump
station to the holding basins. When necessary, this allows the Discharger to
reroute effluent that may violate permit effluent limitations to the holding basins
until treatment problems can be corrected.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the treatment plant.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens secondary
solids (i.e., waste activated sludge) by dissolved air flotation. The solids are
then anaerobically digested and subsequently dewatered by a belt filter press.
Stabilized dewatered biosolids are hauled for offsite disposal. Currently, they
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 64]
City of Benicia Order R2-2025-0001
City of Benicia Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0038091
are converted to a Class EQ liquid bio-fertilizer and land applied at various
agricultural sites.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures all stormwater at the plant
and directs it to the plant headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional
stormwater requirements are necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger does not currently have a recycled
water program. In 2017, the Discharger evaluated the feasibility of producing
and delivering approximately 2.0 MGD (approximately 2,000 acre-feet per year)
of recycled water to the nearby Valero Refinery for use as cooling tower
makeup

===PLANNED CHANGES===

