[Page 56]
2. Collection System. The City of Sunnyvale’s collection system consists of approximately 312
miles of gravity sewer pipes ranging from 4 inches to 48 inches in diameter, 140 miles of
lower laterals, 2 miles of force mains, 4 lift stations, and 1 pump station.
3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant provides preliminary treatment, primary treatment,
biological treatment, filtration, and disinfection. Disinfected advanced-secondary-treated
effluent is discharged to Moffett Channel, a tributary of Guadalupe Slough and Lower South
San Francisco Bay. The plant’s average dry weather effluent flow design capacity is 29.5
million gallons per day (MGD), and its peak wet weather flow capacity is 40 MGD. Over the
past 5 years (December 1, 2014, to present), the plant’s highest daily dry weather discha

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The City Council approved a Master Plan in August 2016 authorizing a 30-year reconstruction
project known as the Sunnyvale Cleanwater Program. The program will serve as a long-term
guide for replacing the plant’s aging infrastructure. The following are descriptions of two key
projects in the Cleanwater Program. Implementation of these projects is not a requirement of this
Order, except to the extent that they pertain to increasing or ensuring treatment or wastewater
collection system reliability. However, the proposed upgrades described below may be
authorized in accordance with Provision VI.C.5.d of the Order. Otherwise, the Discharger must
seek necessary permits or permit modifications to implement any changes.
1. Primary Treatment Facilities. This project includes the phased design and construction of
new headworks, primary sedimentation tanks, an influent pump station, grit removal
facilities, and associated electrical, mechanical, and control systems. These upgrades would
be designed to enhance treatment and reliability. Along with a modernized sedimentation
tank design for enhanced solids removal, the new facilities would better protect downstream
processes and improve biosolids quality through use of influent bar screens and high
efficiency grit basins. In addition, a new 2-megawatt diesel generator would provide standby
emergency power in the event of a power outage. The new facilities would not alter the
current designed flow rates of 29.5 MGD average dry weather and 40 MGD peak wet
weather. The Discharger expects to commission these new facilities by the end of 2020.
2. Secondary Treatment Facilities. The Discharger proposes to replace the current biological
treatment facilities with an activated sludge system consisting of bioreactors and secondary
clarifiers configured as a Modified Ludzak-Ettinger (MLE) process to enhance nitrogen
removal. Construction of the new system is planned to occur in two stages. First, the
Discharger would construct two aeration basins, four secondary clarifiers, and associated
appurtenances. This activated sludge system would operate in parallel with the existing
biological treatment system (Oxidation Ponds, FGRs, DAFTs) under a split-flow regime.
Primary effluent would be apportioned using a weir structure, with approximately two-thirds
going to the new activated sludge system and the remaining one-third going to the existing
biological treatment system. The Discharger would blend effluent from the existing
biological treatment system with effluent from the new activated sludge system at a point
upstream of the disinfection and dechlorination system. The Discharger expects to
commission these new facilities by the end of 2025.
For the second stage, the Discharger proposes to complete the remaining portion of the
activated sludge system and phase out the existing biological treatment system; however,
operation of the Oxidation Ponds under a split-flow regime could continue, allowing the
Discharger to retain flexibility in managing its flow due to the large storage capacity of the
ponds. The new activated sludge system would generate more sludge, which the Discharger
proposes to treat with a new thickening and dewatering facility. This second stage of
upgrades is not expected to be completed within the term of this Order.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
[Page 61]
City of Sunnyvale Order No. R2-2020-0002
Sunnyvale Water Pollution Control Plant and Collection System NPDES NO. CA0037621
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code art