[Page 101]
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107981
MEMBRANE FILTRATION/REVERSE OSMOSIS FACILITY
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
Secondary treatment at HARRF is accomplished by mechanically cleaned bar screens and
aerated grit removal (cyclonic grit chambers), chemically-enhanced primary treatment
(CEPT), aeration basins equipped with membrane fine-bubble diffusers, and secondary
clarifiers. Up to 4 million gallons of flow equalization is available at HARRF using one 2-million
gallon concrete storage reservoir for secondary effluent equalization storage and one 2-
million gallon storage pond for secondary effluent and/or brine equalization storage. An
additional 1 million gallons of recycled water storage is available onsite and 2 million gallons
of storage is available off-site as part of the Discharger’s recycled water distribution system.
Secondary-treated wastewater is either discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the San Elijo
Ocean Outfall (SEOO), or receives tertiary treatment for reuse applications in the HARRF’s
service area.
Screenings from the headworks and solids from grit removal are collected on-site and trucked
to a local landfill. Sludge from primary sedimentation is anaerobically digested and dewatered
by centrifuge. Digested sludge from the primary digesters is directed to a secondary digester
for further stabilization. Waste activated sludge from the secondary clarifiers is thickened by
dissolved air flotation, anaerobically digested, and dewatered by centrifuge. Centrifuge
concentrate is directed back to the plant headworks and dewatered sludge is trucked to
Yuma, Arizona and land applied.
The 9 MGD tertiary treatment portion of HARRF is designed to comply with State Water
Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Division of Drinking Water (DDW) criteria for
“disinfected tertiary recycled water.” The tertiary treatment facility receives inflow from the
HARRF secondary effluent and/or from the secondary equalization basins. Tertiary treatment
at HARRF consists of chemical coagulation and flocculation, DynaSand® monomedia
continuous backwash upflow filtration, and disinfection using ultraviolet light and/or
chlorination.
Tertiary-treated wastewater is typically discharged to the Discharger’s recycled water
distribution system, which is covered under the San Diego Water Board Order No. R9-2010-
0032. Excess tertiary-treated wastewater may be dechlorinated and discharged to an onsite
pond. The onsite pond is tested for total chlorine residual prior to batch discharge to the
Pacific Ocean, along with secondary-treated wastewater. Under certain conditions, the
excess tertiary-treated wastewater may be dechlorinated and discharged to Escondido Creek.
The discharge of tertiary-treated wastewater to Escondido Creek is covered under a separate
NPDES permit (Order No. R9-2015-0026, NPDES Permit No. CA0108944).
As shown in the flow schematic in Attachment C, flow from HARRF to the SEOO is monitored
from the effluent pump station (continuous discharge) and from the onsite pond (batch
discharge). The two flow measurements are added together to obtain the total flow from
HARRF to the SEOO.
A portion of the tertiary-treated wastewater will supply the proposed MFRO Facility. HARRF
tertiary-treated wastewater will be conveyed to the MFRO Facility via an approximate 3-mile-
long, 24-inch-diameter MFRO feed pipeline that will extend from the existing City of
Escondido non-pot

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
As a part of Time Schedule Order No. R9-2015-0027, Requiring the City of Escondido Hale
Avenue Resource Recovery Facility to Comply with Requirements Prescribed in Order
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-8
[Page 105]
CITY OF ESCONDIDO ORDER R9-2018-0002
HALE AVENUE RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107981
MEMBRANE FILTRATION/REVERSE OSMOSIS FACILITY
Number R9-2015-00263 NPDES Permit No. CA0108944 (TSO), the Discharger has
embarked on a comprehensive Agricultural Reuse Program (Program) to increase recycled
water use, reduce HARRF discharge flows and mass emission to the SEOO, and ensure that
wet weather HARRF discharges to the ELO and SEOO remain below the rated hydraulic
capacities of the outfalls. Major facilities improvements bei