[Page 65]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Location and Service Area. As shown in Attachment B, the wastewater
treatment plant is located at 101 W. Jack London Boulevard in Livermore. It
provides secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial
wastewater for the City of Livermore. The plant serves a population of about
92,000.
2.1.2. Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 304 miles of publicly-owned pipes and four sewer
lift stations.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment
2.1.3.1. City of Livermore Water Reclamation Plant. The plant can provide
secondary treatment for an average daily dry weather design flow of
8.5 MGD. In 2021, the average daily dry weather influent flow was 5.3 MGD.
As shown in Attachment C, the treatment process consists of screening, grit
removal, pre aeration, primary clarification, activated sludge aeration,
secondary clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection. The plant also
has an emergency storage basin with a capacity of 13 million gallons.
2.1.3.3. Livermore-Amador Valley Water Management Agency (LAVWMA). The
City of Livermore’s treated effluent is exported to the LAVWMA Export and
Storage Facilities, where it is combined with the Dublin San Ramon Services
District’s treated effluent and flows into three flow-equalization basins before
being pumped through LAVWMA’s pipeline to the EBDA pipeline for
dechlorination at EBDA’s Marina Dechlorination Facility. By contractual
agreement, LAVWMA is responsible for operating and maintaining the
LAVWMA facilities, and EBDA is responsible for the combined transport,
dechlorination, and discharge of LAVWMA’s effluent.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 66]
City of Livermore Order R2-2022-0025
City of Livermore Water Reclamation Plant NPDES Permit CA0038008
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is thickened by dissolved air
floatation, anaerobically digested, and treated in six onsite sludge lagoons for
approximately five years. The treated sludge is injected into soil at an onsite
disposal area.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The plant can provide tertiary treatment for up to 6.0 MGD of
recycled water, which is used as process water at the plant and for irrigation,
fire protection, and fire suppression in the City’s Recycled Water Service Area.
In 2021, the plant produced an average of 1.9 MGD of recycled water.
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

