treatment plant is located at 7399 Johnson Drive in Dublin. It provides
secondary treatment of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the
cities of Dublin, Pleasanton, and parts of San Ramon. The plant serves a
population of about 162,500.
2.1.2. Collection System. The collection system is a separate sewer system
comprised of approximately 220 miles of publicly-owned pipes. The collection
system takes wastewater from the City of Pleasanton collection system, which
is comprised of approximately 275 miles of publicly-owned pipes.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment
2.1.3.1. Dublin San Ramon Services District Wastewater Treatment Plant. The
plant can provide secondary treatment for an average daily dry weather
design flow of 17.0 MGD. In addition, the plant also receives up to 3.2 MGD
of reverse osmosis reject water from the Alameda County Flood Control and
Water Conservation District (Zone 7 Water Agency) (see Fact Sheet section
2.1.3.2, below). The reject water is combined with the plant effluent after
secondary treatment and disinfection, and before Monitoring Location
EFF-002F2. In 2021, the average daily dry weather influent flow was
11.5 MGD. Due to wastewater recycling, the average daily dry weather
effluent flow was 3.5 MGD, including the Zone 7 Water Agency reject water.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
Dublin San Ramon Services District Order R2-2022-0024
Dublin San Ramon Services District Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES Permit CA0037613
As shown in Attachment C, the plant treatment process consists of
screening, grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge aeration,
secondary clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection. The plant also
has four concrete-lined storage basins with a total capacity of 22 million
gallons (with two feet of freeboard) for flow equalization.
2.1.3.2. Zone 7 Water Agency Demineralization and Brine Disposal Project. The
Alameda County Flood Control and Water Conservation District (Zone 7
Water Agency, or Zone 7) serves as the overall water quality management
agency for the Alameda Creek watershed north of the Niles area of Fremont
and has the primary responsibility for managing the Livermore-Amador
Valley’s surface and groundwater resources. In accordance with Regional
Water Board Order 93-159, Zone 7 developed a Salt Management Plan in
1998 to address the issues of salt accumulation within groundwater and to
identify potential salt management strategies to protect

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes). The project would route a small volume of
LAVWMA’s secondary treated and disinfected wastewater (up to 0.5 MGD)
away from the EBDA pipeline for additional treatment to produce purified
water for reuse. Treatment would consist of membrane filtration, reverse
osmosis, and ultraviolet light-based advanced oxidation of LAVWMA’s
wastewater. Treatment would also include hydrogen peroxide dosing
between reverse osmosis and ultraviolet light-based advanced oxidation to
quench any remaining total residual chlorine and facilitate ultraviolet
light-based pollutant degradation.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is thickened by dissolved air
floatation, anaerobically digested, and treated in six onsite sludge lagoons for
approximately five years. The treated sludge is injected into soil at an onsite
disposal area or Dedicated Land Disposal Site in accordance with Order
R2-2007-0053 or the most recent order (see Attachment B, Figure B-3).
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater flows in contact with equipment or
wastewater at the treatment plant are collected and directed to the plant
headworks for treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.1.6. Recycled Water. The plant can provide tertiary treatment for up to 16.2 MGD of
recycled water, which is used for irrigation. In 2021, the plant produced an
average of 5.2 MGD of recycled water.
2.2. Discharge Point and