[Page 83]
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater treatment and disposal system to provide
sewerage service to the City of Santa Barbara and portions of Santa Barbara County, serving
a population of approximately 98,818. Santa Barbara County retains ownership and direct
responsibility for wastewater collection and transport systems up to the point of discharge into
interceptors owned and operated by the City. The County of Santa Barbara owns five miles of
mainlines in Mission Canyon that is maintained by the City. The Central Coast Water Board
regulates the collection system under General Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ.
Secondary treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater consists of screening and
grinding, aerated grit removal, primary sedimentation, activated sludge stabilization,
secondary clarification, disinfection (with sodium hypochlorite) and dechlorination (with
sodium bisulfite). Biosolids are processed by gravity thickening, dissolved air floatation
thickening, anaerobic digestion, and belt press dewatering. Dewatered solids are transported
off-site for disposal. In 2016, the City of Santa Barbara installed two high-density polyethylene
(HDPE) 55-gallon capacity in-line containers along with the chemical feed system to drain
hypochlorite into the chlorine contact chamber to address the reporting issues associated with
chemical feed disruption.
Prior to the chlorine contact chamber, a portion of the secondary treated effluent is diverted to
a newly modified tertiary membrane filtration system. The secondary treated effluent is
pretreated before passing through the membrane filtration system. The membrane filtration
system includes feed pumps, automatic strainers, microfiltration/ultrafiltration membranes,
and filtrate tank. After filtration, the effluent is chlorinated in a chlorine contact basin and used
for non-potable water reuse applications (e.g. landscape irrigation, construction for dust
control and soil compaction, toilet flushing, and the Facility’s process water). This Order
covers the production of the tertiary treated water for recycling. The distribution and use of
recycled water for irrigation are regulated separately by SWRCB General Water Reclamation
Requirements for

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
During the term of this Order, the Discharger plans to upgrade treatment processes and
related infrastructure through a variety of projects. These projects include:
• Influent Flow Monitoring and Sampling Project;
• Lift Station Rehabilitation Project;
• Update O&M Manual and related SOP Project;
• Concrete Repairs;
• Solids/Biosolids Assessment Project;
• El Estero Drainage Mitigation & Restoration Project;
• Recycle Water Pasteurization Feasibility Project; and
• Secondary Process System Improvement Project
The Secondary Process System Improvement Project has been implemented by the City to
achieve better performance of the secondary treatment system at the Facility. Major upgrades
will be made to multiple systems including the aeration system, secondary clarifier flow
distribution, and return activated sludge/waste activated sludge system. The project is
anticipated to be completed by 2019.
The El Estero Water Resource Center has increased the City capacity for self sufficient water
supplies through increased recycling and desalination. Additionally, the City has evaluated
the feasibility of future potable reuse. The alternatives that were evaluated in the Potable
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-15
[Page 94]
CITY OF SANTA BARBA