Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the EWPCF consist of bar
screening, peroxide addition, grit removal, primary sedimentation, biological treatment
using activated sludge, and secondary clarification. The EWPCF also has disinfection
(chlorination) capabilities limited to the capacity necessary to disinfect secondary-treated
effluent currently reused onsite at the EWPCF. Solids treatment unit operations and
processes consist of dissolved air flotation (DAF) thickening, anaerobic digestion,
mechanical dewatering (centrifuges), and heat drying. According to the Certification of
the Design Capacity of the Existing Encina Water Pollution Control Facility, dated June
29, 2010 and included in the Discharger’s 2010 ROWD, “the design capacity of the
existing EWPCF is adequate to treat an average annual 40.5 MGD liquid and 43.3 MGD
solids flow.”
Up to 7 MGD of secondary-treated effluent is diverted to the CWRF, up to 1 MGD is
diverted to the Gafner Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP)2, and up to 6.8 MGD is used
onsite at the EWPCF3. All other effluent from the EWPCF is discharged to the Pacific
Ocean through the EOO. In 2017, the reported average daily flow from the EWPCF to
the EOO was 22.6 MGD.
All solids separated from wastewater at the EWPCF are treated onsite to meet 40 CFR
part 503 requirements. Solids and biosolids collected at the EWPCF may be trucked to
landfills in San Diego County, California; trucked to land application sites in Yuma
County, Arizona; or used in an application approved by the Executive Officer. Biosolids
which are land applied are shipped by a contractor for application in Arizona.
2. Vallecitos Water District - Meadowlark Water Reclamation Plant (MWRP)
The MWRP is located at 7941 Corintia Street in Carlsbad, California, approximately 5.5
miles east of the EWPCF. The MWRP accepts raw wastewater from the Vallecitos Water
District’s sanitary sewer system. The MWRP is a “skimming” water reclamation facility
(i.e., the MWRP only “skims” or extracts enough raw wastewater needed for reclamation
purposes from the Vallecitos Water District’s sanitary sewer system). Wastewater not
skimmed by the MWRP flows to the EWPCF for treatment.
2 The GWRP is currently regulated by separate WDRs, Order No. R9-2004-0223, Waste Discharge Requirements
for Leucadia Wastewater District Forest R. Gafner Water Reclamation Plant San Diego County, adopted
September 8, 2004.
3 Secondary-treated effluent is used onsite at the EWPCF for the sand filter influent, heat drying process,
centrifuge centrate dilution water, hose down water, chemical batching, and balance seal water (up to1.3
MGD); for the cogeneration facility cooling (up to 1.5 MGD); for the odor reduction facilities (up to 1.8 MGD);
and for the DAF tanks (up to 2.2 MGD).
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
ENCINA WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2018-0059
ENCINA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107395
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the MWRP consist of inline
sewage grinding, grinding with augers, primary sedimentation, roughing filtration,
biological treatment using activated sludge, secondary clarification, tertiary filtration, and
chlorine disinfection.
The tertiary-treated wastewater from the MWRP distributed to reuse sites is currently
regulated by separate WDRs under Order No. R9-2007-0018.
Effluent that is not recycled, such as effluent not meeting CCR title 22 water recycling
requirements or excess tertiary-treated effluent, is conveyed through the Meadowlark
land outfall (also referred to as a failsafe outfall), which connects to the EOO and the
Pacific Ocean. According to the 2015 ROWD, the daily average capacity for the MWRP
is 5 MGD. The reported average daily flow from the MWRP to the EOO in 2017 was 1.4
MGD.
All solids separated from wastewater at the MWRP are conveyed to the EWPCF for
treatment.
3. Carlsbad Municipal Water District - Carlsbad Water Reclamation Facility (CWRF)
The CWRF is located at 6220 Avenida Encinas in Carlsbad, California, adjacent to the
EWPCF. The CWRF is a “skimming” water reclamation facility (i.e., the CWRF only
“skims” or extracts enough secondary-treated effluent needed for reclamation purposes
from the EWPCF). Since the adoption of the previous order (Order No. R9-2011-0019),
the CWRF production rate for recycled water increased from 4 MGD to 7 MGD.
Secondary-treated effluent not skimmed from the EWPCF for tertiary treatment is
discharged to the EOO.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the CWRF consist of continuous
backwash granulated media filtration, microfiltration or ultrafiltration (MF/UF), reverse
osmosis (RO) membrane filtration (typically bypassed), decarbonation (typically
bypassed), chlorine disinfection, and solids thickening. MF/UF backwash, along with
other backwash from other CWRF processes, is thickened and returned to the EWPCF
for treatment and disposal.
The tertiary-treated wastewater from the CWRF distributed to reuse sites is currently
regulated by separate WDRs under Order No. R9-2016-0183.
Up to 0.2 MGD of waste brine from the RO process at the CWRF may be discharged
directly to the ocean through the EOO or to the EWPCF’s aeration basins. Source water
that is not recycled, such as effluent not meeting CCR title 22 water recycling
requirements, is discharged to the EWPCF’s aeration basins. There were no reported
flows from the CWRF to the EOO during the term of previous order (Order No. R9-2011-
0019).
4. Leucadia Wastewater District - Gafner Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP)
The Leucadia Wastewater District (LWD), a member agency of the EWA, independently
owns and operates the GWRP located at 1960 La Costa Avenue in Leucadia, California,
approximately 3.5 miles southeast of the EWPCF. A portion of secondary-treated effluent
from the EWPCF is diverted to the GWRP to produce up to 1 MGD of recycled water.
The tertiary-treated wastewater from the GWRP distributed to reuse sites is currently
regulated by separate WDRs under Order No. R9-2004-0223.
Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the GWRP consist of filtration
and chlorine disinfection.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-6
ENCINA WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER NO. R9-2018-0059
ENCINA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0107395
Solids and other waste stream flows from the GWRP, including effluent not meeting CCR
title 22 water recycling requirements, are discharged back to the sanitary sewer system
and subsequently conveyed to and treated at the EWPCF. The GWRP is not connected
to the EOO.
5. City of Vista - Shadowridge Water Reclamation Plant (SWRP)
The City of Vista, a member agency of the EWA, independently owns the SWRP, which
is located at 2525 Lupine Hills Road in Vista, California approximately 6 miles northeast
of the EWPCF. When it operated, the SWRP was a water recycling plant. Effluent from
the SWRP not distributed to reuse sites was discharged to the EOO. The previous
Orders included the discharge from the SWRP to the EOO.
The SWRP ceased operations in 2005. Since that time, the City of Vista has removed
some of the equipment from the SWRP, and the SWRP has been disconnected from the
EOO. The City of Vista uses the basins remaining at the site as temporary storage for
raw sewage from the sewage collection system during emergencies or capital
improvement projects. By letter dated April 16, 2018, the Discharger requested that the
San Diego Water Board remove the SWRP from the NPDES Permit No. CA0107395.
Given that the SWRP is no longer connected to the EOO and the Discharger submitted a
request to remove the SWRP, this Order does not provide coverage for discharges from
the SWRP to the EOO.
6. EWA - Encina Ocean Outfall (EOO)

===PLANNED CHANGES===

