[Page 7]
USDI, Bureau of Reclamation - 2 - 12 December 2018
overflow (like a septic tank) to the nearest lift station. There are eight lift stations. Lift Stations
1, 2, 3 and 4 initially pump to Lift Station 5. Lift Station 5 pumps to Lift Stations 6, 7, 8, and the
evaporation ponds, in series. There are no RV hook-ups for public use, but there is a total of
four full RV hook-ups reserved for Camp Hosts. Central Valley Water Board staff conducted an
inspection on 14 June 2018 to become more familiar with the site.
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
The Facility’s ponds have reportedly always functioned, in practice, as evaporation ponds.
There is a spray irrigation system for the effluent that has reportedly never been used because
the evaporation rates from the ponds exceeds the flow rates to the ponds.
Public contact with the wastewater is restricted. Public access to the evaporation ponds is
restricted by a six-foot high chain-link fence, with barbed wire on top. A portion of the sprayfield
has a barbed wire fence on the perimeter. There is a locked gate on the access road leading to
the Facility and a second locked gate at the entrance to the Facility. The gates and the chain-
link fencing have “No Trespassing” signs.
The wastewater treatment system consists of a collection system, two evaporation ponds, and a
spray irrigation system. Wastewater flows from Evaporation Pond #1 to Evaporation Pond #2
by an interconnecting weir. The evaporation ponds are lined with an 80-mil high density
polyethylene (HDPE) geomembrane installed in 2003. Wastewater disposal is principally
accomplished by evaporation. Wastewater begins to flow into Evaporation Pond #2 when the
freeboard in Evaporation Pond #1 is 1.8 feet or less. The Discharger has the ability to convey
wastewater from Evaporation Pond #2 to a 4.8-acre sprayfield. Prior to discharging the
wastewater at the sprayfield, the wastewater is disinfected with a hypochlorination injection
system. However, as previously mentioned, wastewater has reportedly not been discharged to
the sprayfield since the Facility has been constructed.
To help ensure that an overflow does not occur, the Discharger has a contingency plan if the
water level encroaches on 2 feet of freeboard for Evaporation Pond #2. The contingency plan is
described in a letter (date stamped 24 October 2002) from Peggi Brooks, Resource Manager for
the Bureau of Reclamation. The contingency plan calls for hauling wastewater from the Facility
to local wastewater treatment facilities for treatment and disposal via trucks.
To address concerns regarding the integrity of the pond liners and the Facility’s potential impact
on the underlying groundwater, a series of improvements were made at the wastewater
treatment facility around 2003, which included the following items:
a. Installation of groundwater monitoring wells.
b. Modified piping from the last lift station to provide the ability to route the wastewater
to either Evaporation Pond #1 or Evaporation Pond #2.
c. Installation of a 15 HP aerator in Evaporation Pond #1, which is operated to maintain
the dissolved oxygen level at a suitable concentration for aerobic biodegradation of
organic material during high load scenarios (staff noted during the 14 June 2018
inspection that the aerator was not physically in the pond)
d. Installation of a new liner system for each evaporation pond, consisting of an 80-mil
HDPE geomembrane liner with reinforcing scrim.
e. Installation of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system at each
of the eight lift stations to ensure that potential overflows or spills at the lift stations
do not enter any surface water drainage.
[Page 8]
USDI, Bureau of Reclamation - 3 - 12 December 2018
f. Construction of a 4.8-acre sprayfield area (not used since installation), and a liquid
hypochlorination injection system to disinfect wastewater before being used for land
application.
At this time, the Discharger does not propose to harvest a crop from the sprayfield.
Depth to groundwater in the monitoring wells near the evaporation ponds for April 2017 was
approximately 7 feet to 112 feet below the bottom of the evaporation pond (approximate liner
elevation is 1,425 feet). New Melones Lake’s elevation was approximately 1,048 feet on
8 June 2018.
The groundwater monitoring data for electrical conductivity (EC) and total dissolved solids
(TDS) in three groundwater monitoring wells are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. A
noticeable increase in salinity appears to have occurred around 2007 in GH-MW1. The tables
below compa

===PLANNED CHANGES===

