[Page 36]
3. Climate Change Adaptation –The Climate Change Adaptation Plan must, at a
minimum, include the following components:
i. Hazards and Vulnerabilities – Identify climate change hazards, at a
minimum accounting for the hazards listed below, applicable to the
Wastewater System. Using up-to-date tools, data, and guidance from the
State of California (e.g., Cal-Adapt8, Sea-Level Rise Guidance from
Ocean Protection Council, reports from the Climate-Safe Infrastructure
Working Group, the Climate Adaptation Planning Guide, and California
Climate Assessment Regional Reports), assess the Wastewater System’s
vulnerability to identified hazards that could cause reduction, loss, or
failure of treatment processes and/or critical structures at the Wastewater
System. Identify and justify the resources (e.g., models and tools, design
parameters) used to inform identification of these hazards and
vulnerabilities.
a. Sea Level Rise – Saltwater intrusion, flooding and inundation, and
increased coastal erosion.
b. Precipitation Pattern Changes.
I. Drought – Decreased influent quantity and quality.
II. Peak Events – Flooding and increased influent quantity.
c. Temperature fluctuations and extremes.
d. Increased wildfires.
e. Increased power outages.
ii. Resiliency Actions – Identify actions to build Wastewater System and
operational resilience to identified vulnerabilities, accounting for options
that minimize resourc

[Page 38]
4. Salt and Nutrient Management Plan – If directed by the Central Coast Water
Board pursuant to California Water Code section 13267, the City of Guadalupe
must prepare and submit a Salt and Nutrient Management Plan to ensure that
the overall impact of treated wastewater and/or non-potable water recycling
projects does not degrade groundwater resources. At a minimum, the salt and
nutrient management plan must address the following:
i. An outline and description of an implementable salt and nutrient management
program to reduce mass loading of salts and nutrients (with an emphasis on
nitrogen species) in treated effluent to a level that will ensure compliance with
effluent limitations and protect beneficial uses of groundwater.
a. A description of salt reduction measures that identify and focus on all
potential salt contributors to the collection system (e.g., water supply,
commercial, industrial, residential) and wastewater treatment process.
b. A description of nutrient reduction measures that focus on source
control and optimizing wastewater treatment processes for nitrogen
removal.
5. Time Schedule Compliance Plan - As set forth in General Permit sections V.A
and VI.A.5, if the City of Guadalupe anticipates that additional time is needed to
achieve compliance with the effluent limitations, the City of Guadalupe must
prepare and submit for Central Coast Water Board review and approval, a time
schedule compliance plan. At a minimum, the time schedule c

===PLANNED CHANGES===

