Number (APN) 049-082-011.
10. The Initial Phase (Phase 1A) of the WRP will consist of an influent pump station,
headworks, 60-mil single lined emergency overflow pond with equalization
basins, a modular packaged membrane bioreactor (MBR) system designed by
Cloacina®, sludge handling facilities, and one percolation pond divided into
multiple cells. The modular packaged MBR system will contain two anoxic
basins, three aeration basins, two MBR filters, and a UV disinfection unit.
Phase 1A of the WRP will have a designed treatment capacity of 0.25 mgd with a
peak hydraulic capacity of 0.5 mgd.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2019-0084 3
GUNNER RANCH, INC. AND MADERA COUNTY SERVICE AREA #22C
GUNNER RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADERA COUNTY
11. For Phase 1, the treatment capacity of the WRP will be expanded to 0.5 mgd
with the addition of two additional anoxic basins, three aeration basins, two MBR
filters, a second UV disinfection unit and associated pumps and piping.
12. Phase 2 will add a second 0.5 mgd treatment train bringing the total treatment
capacity of the system to 1.0 mgd.
13. At build-out the WRP will consist of three complete treatment trains each capable
of handling an average dry weather flow of 0.5 mgd and peak hydraulic flow of
1.0 mgd for a total treatment capacity of 1.5 mgd (Phase 3). A flow schematic
showing the main components of the treatment system is provided in
Attachment B which is incorporated as part of this Order.
14. The WRP will provide treatment that will include nitrification/denitrification to
reduce nitrogen concentrations in the effluent to less than 10 mg/L.
15. Because this is a new facility, there is no existing data available on effluent
quality. The anticipated influent and effluent quality presented in Table 1 below is
based on the proposed treatment process using an MBR system and data from
similar existing facilities.
Table 1. Anticipated Influent and Effluent Quality
Parameter/Constituent Influent Effluent
Electrical Conductivity, μmhos/cm --- <900
Biochemical Oxygen Demand, mg/L 300 10
Total Suspended Solids, mg/L 300 10
Total Nitrogen, mg/L 45 <10
16. Wasted sludge will be conveyed to a package Cloacina DRYPAC® aerated
sludge handling system, which will consist of an aerated sludge storage tank,
dewatering press, polymer system, and associated pumps. Dewatered sludge
will be placed in bins and transported off-site for disposal at a permitted landfill or
land application area.
17. The WRP will have reliability and redundancy features that will include:
(a) standby power, (b) redundant machinery and/or components to allow for
uninterrupted operations, (c) automated controls, monitoring, and alarms, and (d)
emergency storage.
18. For Phase 1A, disposal of treated effluent will be to onsite percolation ponds
only. The 2019 RWD addendum proposed construction of two percolation ponds
with a designed combined disposal capacity of about 37 million gallons. The
2019 RWD addendum included a water balance for the Phase 1A WRP prepared
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2019-0084 4
GUNNER RANCH, INC. AND MADERA COUNTY SERVICE AREA #22C
GUNNER RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADERA COUNTY
and signed by Joe Riess, a registered civil engineer (RCE 66413) with
Waterworks Engineers. Based on the water balance, the proposed Phase 1A
WRP will have sufficient treatment and disposal capacity to handle average daily
flows of up to 0.25 mgd for both an average year and 100-year wet year. During
construction, the percolation pond design was revised to include a single larger
percolation pond divided into multiple cells with a minimum designed disposal
capacity of at least 0.5 mgd based on estimated percolation and evaporation
rates.
19. Additional percolation ponds will be constructed to handle increased flows as the
WRP expands. In addition, the WRP is intended to provide recycled water for
irrigation of landscape and open areas within and around the Development in the
future. According to the 2019 RWD addendum, the future use of recycled water
will be addressed once the landscape infrastructure is constructed and flows
reach the capacity to make recycled water use feasible. This is expected to occur
when flows exceed 0.5 mgd.
20. The WRP will provide disinfection of its effluent during Phase 1A and Phase 1,
but will not meet Title 22 standards for tertiary disinfected wastewater until
recycling operations are expected to start. This Order requires the Discharger to
initiate recycling operations by the time flows to the WRP exceed 0.5 mgd
(i.e., Phase 2).
Site-Specific Conditions
21. Climate in the Central Valley is characterized by dry summers and mild winters.
The rainy season generally extends from November through April. Occasional
rains occur during the spring and fall months, but summer months are dry. Based
on publications from the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) and
the Western Regional Climate Center, annual rainfall for the Fresno/Madera area
is about 14 inches, with a 100-year return period wet-year rainfall of about 25
inches. From the California Irrigation Management Information System (CIMIS),
the mean reference evapotranspiration rate (ETo) for the nearby station at
Fresno State University is about 55.6 inches per year.
22. Topography in the vicinity of the WRP and percolation ponds is relatively flat.
According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) maps
(Map Number 06039C1215E, effective 26 September 2008) the WRP and
percolation ponds lie in Zone X, areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain, with less than a 0.2 percent annual chance of flooding.
23. According to the Web Soil Survey published by the United States Department of
Natural Resources Conservation Service, soils in the vicinity of the WRP and
percolation ponds are predominantly San Joaquin sandy loam and Ramona
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2019-0084 5
GUNNER RANCH, INC. AND MADERA COUNTY SERVICE AREA #22C
GUNNER RANCH WASTEWATER RECLAMATION PLANT
MADERA COUNTY
sandy loam. These soils are moderately well to well drained. These soil types are
alluvium derived primarily from granite.
24. The area is generally undeveloped and consists primarily of rural residential and
agricultural lands, except for the Valley Children’s Hospital complex on the
eastern edge of the Development. The Development is bound on the north by the
Rolling Hills subdivision, agricultural land to the west, and agricultural land and
the San Joaquin River to the south and east. Primary crops grown in the area
include nut and citrus orchards, olives, vineyards, and hay and grain crops.
Currently groundwater is the primary source for irrigation water in the area.
25. Source water for the Development will be derived primarily from groundwater
resources. The source water is expected to be of good quality. The 2006 RWD
reported average water quality data for groundwater in the area with an electrical
conductivity (EC) of 270 μmhos/cm, total dissolved solids (TDS) of 175 mg/L, and
nitrate (as N) of 6.3 mg/L. In addition, recent sampling of the Valley Children’s
Hospital supply wells in 2015 reported an average EC of 240 μmhos/cm, TDS of
160 mg/L, and nitrate (as N) of 2.7 mg/L.
Groundwater Conditions
26. According to the DWR Information Center Interactive Maps, depth to
groundwater across the Development ranged from about 80 to 180 feet below
site grade (bsg) and about 160 to 180 feet bsg in the vicinity of the WRP in
Spring 2018. Regional groundwater flow in the area is generally to the west-
northwest away from the San Joaquin River.
27. Data pertinent to characterizing first-encountered groundwater prior to 1968 is
limited due to the wide variability in the screened interval of wells, sampling
dates, and constituents monitored. A review of water quality information including
the State Water Resources Control Board’s (State Water Board) Groundwater
Ambient Monitoring Program (GAMA) database identified one well
(12S20E30F001M) about 500 feet from the proposed WRP that was sampled
prior to 1968. Groundwater samples from this well collected in March 1966
reported

===PLANNED CHANGES===

