[Page 18]
POTENTIAL THREAT TO WATER QUALITY
Hensley Lake is a 1,500-acre manmade lake in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada. At an
elevation around 540 feet above mean seal level, the area consists of shallow soils
overlying igneous and metamorphic bedrock. Groundwater in the area is present in
fractured bedrock at various depths ranging from 20 to 200 feet below site grade (bsg).
There is limited soil data for the area. However according to the RWD, given actual flows
at Hidden View Campground and Buck Ridge Recreation Area, the evaporation ponds
generally operate at about 50% capacity and no overflow issues have been reported.
According to the Discharger the evaporation ponds were constructed in the 1970’s and
equipped with an 8-mil PVC liner and covered by a 6-inch gravel layer. The condition of
the liners is unknown; however, given their age some deterioration is expected.
According to the Discharger, the distance from the evaporation ponds to Hensley Lake at
both locations is greater than 2,000 feet. This distance meets the minimum setback
requirements specified in Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks in the
General Order. However, the OWTS Policy requires a minimum setback of 200 feet for
septic tanks and collection systems from a lake or reservoir. Based on the available data
the existing septic tanks at the Hidden View Campground at 170 and 39 feet from the
high-water mark do not meet this setback. According to Discharger there have been no
reports of odor or nuisance conditions and no instances of these septic tanks being
flooded as a result of high water from the lake. In addition, the tanks are pumped out
annually to prevent overflows. Therefore, these existing septic tanks for not appear to
pose a threat to nearby Lake Hensley and the setback for these existing septic tanks is
sufficient.
According to the RWD, the Discharger does not sample its wastewater and both WWTFs
are currently closed (Hidden View Campground is closed due to the COVID-19
Pandemic, and Buck Ridge Recreation Area has been closed since 2014 for refurbishing)
so there is no effluent water quality data. However, the discharge to the WWTFs has no
commercial or industrial component and is expec

===PLANNED CHANGES===

