2.5.2.2 Deoxygenation Zone
A deoxygenation (deox) zone is located upstream of the anoxic zone. This deox zone preconditions the
recirculated mixed liquor from the MBR tanks. The MBR tanks add oxygen to the mixed liquor.
Because of the strict nitrate limit anticipated, the deox zone was added to reduce the dissolved oxygen
recirculated to the anoxic zone. Dissolved oxygen is reduced in the deox zone through endogenous
respiration. The deox zone is sized to provide a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 1.45 hours at a
nominal plant flow rate of 5.0 mgd.
2.5.2.3 Anoxic Zone
The next treatment stage of the MBR process is the anoxic zone, which is operated as a completely mixed
basin without any aeration. The dissolved oxygen in the anoxic basin will be purposely kept low,
typically in the 0.1-0.2 mg/L range, to promote the oxidation of dissolved nitrates into nitrogen gas which
is removed to the atmosphere, a process called denitrification. Mixing of the anoxic basins will be
accomplished with submersible mixers.
April 2008 2-15
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
MBR influent wastewater will be transferred in pipes to the anoxic basins. Recycled mixed liquor from
the deox zone, which is rich in nitrates, will be mixed with the influent wastewater in the anoxic zone,
thereby providing a carbon source for the denitrifying bacteria. This mixture of influent and recirculated
mixed liquor along with the low dissolved oxygen level promotes the growth of the denitrifying bacteria.
This denitrification process is capable of reducing the nitrate level to <5 mg/L nitrates (as N) to meet
Basin Plan requirements.
The anoxic basin will be divided into two sections to reduce short-circuiting. The anoxic basin has a HRT
of approximately 2.76 hours at 5.0 mgd. A recycle rate of approximately 6Q (six times the average
influent flow rate) will be required to reduce the nitrates to the design level. The anoxic zones at the plant
will be designed with four parallel trains to allow for continued operation when one basin is removed
from service for maintenance.
2.5.2.4 Aeration Zone
The next stage of the MBR system is the aeration zone. Wastewater will flow by gravity from the anoxic
basin to the aeration basin. The aeration zone will be equipped with fine bubble diffusers for mixing and
oxygen transfer. The aeration zone is typically operated with a dissolved oxygen level of 2-3 mg/L. The
aeration zone establishes an environment to promote a suspended biological growth that breaks down the
soluble BOD by converting it into cellular biomass. The aeration zone is also designed to promote growth
of nitrifying bacteria, which oxidize ammonia into nitrates – a process called nitrification.
Four aeration trains are designed to provide the ability to continue processing wastewater with one train
out of service. The aeration basin will be designed with a HRT of approximately 10.3 hours at the
nominal flow rate of 5.0 mgd. The aeration zone will operate with a mixed liquor suspended solids
(MLSS) concentration of approximately 8,500 mg/L. Fine bubble, membrane disk diffusers will provide
process air and mixing power to the aeration zone. Aeration air will be provided to the system by high-
speed turbocompressors, which will be located in a blower building.
Three variable frequency drive (VFD) driven process blowers will be provided for the biological process
requirements. One standby blower will be provided.
2.5.2.5 Post-Anoxic Zone
The aeration basins overflow into post-anoxic basins, which are designed to further enhance the
denitrification process. The post-anoxic basins have a HRT of approximately 1.3 hours at 5.0 mgd. Each
basin is equipped with a submersible mixer. A source of supplemental carbon, either methanol or ethanol,
may be required during certain flow and loading conditions. An aboveground, fuel-type storage tank and
gear pumps are used for storage and feed of the methanol. The denitrification process is highly dependent
on wastewater temperatures and nitrogen loading. The supplemental carbon will probably not be required
on a year round basis.
The flow exits the post-anoxic basin through slide gates into the mixed liquor collection channel. The
mixed liquor is pumped from this channel to the membrane distribution channel. Six axial flow pumps (5
duty, 1 standby) will be used to provide a flow up to 6Q (influent flow). The mixed liquor recirculation
pumps will be VFD driven for flow control. The pumps feed a 48-inch header pipe to transport the mixed
liquor to the MBR tanks. A 40-inch magnetic flow meter will be provided to measure and control the
recirculation rate.
2.5.2.6 Membrane Zone
The immersed membranes are located in a separate zone for each process train. The selected Zenon
membrane configuration will consist of hollow fiber ultrafiltration membranes. These membranes have a
nominal pore size of 0.04 microns. The process will have four membrane trains so that the plant flow
could be maintained even with one membrane train out of service for cleaning or maintenance. The
membrane basins will have inlet slide gates for isolation.
April 2008 2-16
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
The immersed membranes separate the solids from the MBR effluent, called permeate. A slight vacuum
will be applied to the permeate header by a centrifugal pump. Treated wastewater will then be drawn
through the membrane and flow through the center of the membrane and through to connecting tubing to
the permeate header. In turn, the permeate will flow through the pump to the downstream processes.
Ultrafiltration of the wastewater results in typical permeate turbidity values of less than 0.1 NTU.
Operating data suggest that the membranes also reduce bacterial counts, potentially providing some
degree of disinfection. Results at operating plants show permeate coliform counts typically less than 23
MPN/100-mL without additional disinfection, and often the MBR permeate coliform totals are less than
2.2 MPN/100-mL.
The mixed liquor in the membrane zone will be agitated by a coarse bubble diffuser system. The
membrane agitation air provides a scouring velocity along the membranes required to prevent a buildup
of solids at the surface of the membranes. Four (4) separate high-speed turbocompressors, which will be
located in the blower building, will supply the membrane agitation air.
To maintain performance, the membranes require a “rest” period where flow through the membranes is
stopped allowing the membranes to relax. This rest cycle is fully automated and is typically done on a
cycle of 15-20 minutes on and 2 minutes of rest.
The membranes may need to be cleaned periodically through backwashing to prevent plugging or fouling
of the membrane surfaces, which increases the transmembrane pressure through the membranes resulting
in diminished permeate production. The method of backwashing is operator selected and is fully
automated. Backwashing requires the use of permeate containing a high chlorine concentration to be
pumped back through the membranes on a regular basis. Sodium hypochlorite will be used to dose stored
permeate in a backwash tank. This solution will then be pumped back through the membranes in the
reverse direction to the permeate flow. This backwash operation will occur approximately once or twice
every day. Once or twice a year the membrane cassettes will be taken off-line and undergo a clean-in-
place cycle. The clean-in-place begins by draining the membrane tank. The membranes are then
backwashed with a chlorine solution, which fills the membrane tank. The membranes are allowed to
soak. After soaking, the membrane tank is drained and refilled with mixed liquor and the membranes are
placed back into service.
Solids will be retained in the membrane tank and will be continuously recycled back to the anoxic zone to
maintain the biomass concentration in the system and also to undergo denitrification. This recycle flow is
low in ammonia but high in nitrates. The nitrates in turn provide the denitrifying bacteria in the anoxic
zone with an alternate oxygen source to promote denitrification of the wastewater. The recirculated mixed
liquor from the membrane basins is typically high in dissolved oxygen. Since this dissolved oxygen will
suppress the denitrification process it must be lowered. The deoxygenation basin receives the mixed
liquor prior to the anoxic basin. The dissolved oxygen is lowered in the deoxygenation basin through
endogenous respiration. The mixed liquor is kept in suspension by submersible mixers provided for each
basin. From the deoxygenation basins, the mixed liquor flows by gravity into the anoxic basins.
2.5.2.7 MBR Process Equipment Area
The MBR process equipment, which includes the permeate pumps, backpulse pumps, backpulse tank,
valves, flow meters and associated controls and instrumentation, will be located in a building adjacent to
the MBR basins. This building is described in a later section.
2.5.3 Disinfection
Permeate (effluent) sent to the percolation beds for disposal will not be disinfected. The ultrafiltration
membranes remove a large portion of the bacteria present. Coliform levels in the MBR effluent are
typically less than 23 MPN/100mL. The EPA Design Manual for Land Treatment of Municipal
Wastewater states that wastewater applied to rapid infiltration or percolation beds does not require
April 2008 2-17
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
disinfection. Maintenance of Basin Plan standards for groundwater coliform should not require
disinfection, and avoiding disinfection will minimize disinfection by products in the discharge.
Disinfection of the portion of the MBR effluent used for recycled water will be accomplished by
chlorination. The chlorination system and contact basins will be designed to meet Title 22 disinfected
tertiary recycled water requirements. With respect to Title 22, two conditions must be met:
1. The filtered wastewater has been disinfected by either:
(i) A chlorine disinfection process following filtration that provides a CT (the product of total
chlorine residual and modal contact time measured at the same point) value of not less than
450 milligram-minutes per liter at all times with a modal contact time of at least 90 minutes,
based on peak dry weather design flow; or
(ii) A disinfection process that, when combined with the filtration process, has been
demonstrated to inactivate and/or remove 99.999% of the plaque-forming units of F-specific
bacteriophage MS2, or polio virus in the wastewater. A virus that is at least as resistant to
disinfection as polio virus may be used for the purposes of the demonstration.
2. The median concentration of total coliform bacteria measured in the disinfected effluent does not
exceed an MPN of 2.2 per 100-mL utilizing the bacteriological results of the last seven days for
which analyses have been completed and the number of total coliform bacteria does not exceed
an MPN of 23 per 100-mL in more than one sample in any 30 day period. No sample shall exceed
an MPN of 240 total coliform bacteria per 100-mL.
2.5.3.1 Chlorine Contact Basins (CCB)
Permeate (effluent) for recycled water production will flow to the CCB, which will include a rapid-mix
chamber, an inlet distribution channel, two chlorine contact basins, and an effluent wetwell. The CCB is
shown in Figure 2-5. Permeate can be split between the two CCBs, or a portion of the flow can also
bypass the CCB if necessary. The wetwells can be operated separately or in combination, because the
divider wall in the wetwell will have an overflow weir and an interconnecting sluice gate.
Permeate will enter the rapid mix structure where sodium hypochlorite will be added through a polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) pipe header. This structure will be equipped with an induction type chemical flash mixer.
Flow will enter the mixing chamber through a pipe penetration. Sodium hypochlorite will then be injected
into the flow stream through the mixer. The chemical flash mixer will evenly disperse the hypochlorite.
The submersible induction mixer will be fabricated of stainless steel and will be mounted below the CCB
cover. An access hatch will be provided for removal of the unit for maintenance.
After chlorine injection and mixing, the flow will continue through the CCB influent distribution channel.
This channel will be equipped with slide gates to direct the flow to either one or both of the CCBs. The
CCB will consist of a concrete basin with concrete baffle walls used to create a serpentine flow pattern.
Each basin will be 8 feet wide with a side water depth of 9 feet and 2 feet of freeboard above the normal
water level.
The CCBs each have five passes to create the serpentine flow and are further configured with a bypass
pipe around the basin. The length of each pass is 87 feet. This layout with both basins in service will
provide a minimum hydraulic detention time of 120 minutes at 5.5 mgd. With only one basin in service,
the detention time for 2.8 mgd will be 120 minutes and 90 minutes for 3.75 mgd. The length to width
ratio of each CCB is 54:1.
The CCB floors are constructed with a cross slope to a drainage channel that will allow the basin to be
drained for maintenance. The water surface level in the CCB will be set by the use of a fixed weir on the
outlet of each basin. Water flows over the fixed outlet weir into an effluent pump station wetwell for
distribution to disposal or reuse. The contact basin will be covered to prevent degradation of chlorine
April 2008 2-18
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
residual by sunlight and to prevent algae growth. The basin cover material is fiberglass. Access hatches
are provided for maintenance and cleaning.
Sampling pumps will be used to withdraw samples from the CCB to the chlorine residual. The chlorine
residual will be monitored at the influent end of the basin. The influent chlorine residual will be
monitored to insure adequate chlorine has been added and will also be used to detect a chlorination
system failure. The effluent chlorine residual will be monitored to insure compliance with Title 22 CT
requirements for recycled water disinfection. The chlorine residual analyzers are mounted adjacent to the
CCB. Signals from the analyzers are incorporated into the plant control system and Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. These signals are used to generate alarms to warn the operators
of chlorination system failures or malfunctions.
Future expansion could be accomplished with the addition of a new CCB, chlorine injection systems, and
chlorine analyzers.
2.5.3.2 Chemical Feed and Storage
A building for the chemical feed systems and chemical storage area will be required. A layout plan and
section illustration is shown in Figure 2-6. Sodium hypochlorite will be used for the MBR backpulse and
membrane cleaning operation as well as for effluent disinfection. The MBR manufacturer also requires
the use of citric acid for membrane cleaning because of the hardness of the water. Additionally, methanol
or ethanol will be required for supplemental carbon addition in the post-anoxic zone.
Chemical metering pumps will be provided for the effluent disinfection. Programmable logic controllers
(PLCs) will control the speed of the pumps based on the CCB influent flow and the chlorine residual
detected in the CCB. The pumps will be housed inside a concrete block building. The building will be
heated to prevent freezing and equipped with ventilation fans to provide fresh air and minimal heat
rejection. No air conditioning will be required for this building.
Sodium hypochlorite will be stored in a high-density, linear polyethylene (HDLPE) chemical storage
tank. The tanks will be sized to provide approximately 8 days of storage at peak daily flow chlorine
dosage. The storage area will be located outdoor under a canopy. An emergency spill containment area
will be provided. The emergency spill containment area will also be included at the chemical metering
facilities. A chemical loading station will be provided for chemical truck delivery. Emergency eyewash
and shower will be provided inside the building and in the storage area. Hose bibs and hose racks for
washdown will also be provided.
Methanol or ethanol will be stored in a double contained aboveground steel storage tank. Since methanol
and ethanol are flammable, the storage and chemical pump area will be designated as a Class I, Division 2
area per NFPA 70 (National Electric Code). This will require special construction of electrical
components to reduce the risk of fire and explosion. A containment area for the chemical pumps will be
provided. All methanol/ethanol feed piping will be double contained. The methanol/ethanol tank will
store approximately 3,000 gallons of chemical. The feed pumps will be magnetically driven gear pumps
with explosion proof variable speed drives.
Manuals and training for the operation of the membrane bioreactor have been provided by the
manufacturer (Zenon).
2.6 Plant Reliability Features
Sections 60333 through 60355 (Articles 8 through 10) of the Water Recycling Criteria define reliability
requirements for wastewater treatment plants producing recycled water. The features that are incorporated
at this plant to comply with these requirements are described below.
April 2008 2-19
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
Article 8, §60333. Flexibility of Design
The plant has been designed to provide for efficient operation and maintenance and to permit the highest
possible degree of treatment under varying circumstances. There are four process trains, each rated at
1.25 mgd. With additional temperature data it may be possible to re-rate these process basins to 1.5 mgd
each. There are four membrane trains, each rated at 1 mgd as originally configured, expandable to
1.25 mgd per train with the addition of more membranes. The facility can treat the current ADWF of
2.6 mgd with one process train and one membrane train out of service, as initially configured.
The MBR influent distribution structure will be designed to overflow to the sludge storage basin (SSB) in
case of emergency. A minimum of 16 million gallons of storage capacity will be available in the SSB for
emergency conditions, providing the ability to divert and store more than 3 days of continuous average
daily flow (at the design flow rate of 5.0 mgd) or more than 6 days of continuous average daily flow (at
the current ADWF of 2.6 mgd). A decant pump station will be designed to allow pumping of the SSB
contents back to the pretreatment facility for processing through the plant.
Table 2-3, which details the DWTP design parameters, also identifies the equipment incorporated in the
unit process and the redundant elements in the process design. For example, the process air blowers,
membrane air blowers and membrane permeate pumps all require one unit per process train (two in total),
however, a third standby unit standby is provided to help assure plant reliability, flexibility and efficiency
of operation.
Article 8, §60335. Alarms
The DWTP has a SCADA system that enables full monitoring and control of the plant. The SCADA
system, which has battery power back-up, will provide the annunciation of the alarms required pursuant
to section 60335, that is, the sounding of alarms for the following events:
(cid:120) the loss of normal power
(cid:120) failure of biological treatment process
(cid:120) failure of a disinfection process
(cid:120) failure of a filtration process
The existing SCADA system is Wonderware based and monitors and controls the operations of a variety
of remote sites. Communication between the remote sites and the SCADA system is radio based and the
controls at each site are PLC based using Tesco L2000 and Liq 4 PLCs.
The existing SCADA system consists of two sets of computers. The two SCADA locations are connected
together by means of a Microwave Wide Area Network Link. The SCADA system utilizes Wonderware
software and is currently set up to communicate with the Tesco L2000 and Liq 4 PLCs. As part of the
new plant, the existing set of computers located at the City Yard would be relocated to the new plant
Operations Building.
The plant upgrades will include instrumentation and control systems to allow the plant operators the
ability to monitor and control the operations associated with the new plant processes, as well, as provide
for new SCADA-based control and monitoring of portions of the existing interim plant that will be
incorporated into the new plant such as the influent and effluent pump stations.
The plant upgrades will consist of two major control systems – the packaged MBR control system and the
general plant facilities control system. There will be an MBR Main Control Panel and a Plant Main
Control Panel. Each system will be PLC based and each system will include an operator interface panel
that allows an operator to monitor and control the associated plant processes. The two main control panels
will be situated next to each other and will allow an operator to view operations associated with each
system simultaneously from the Operator Interface Panels located in each of the Main Control Panels.
April 2008 2-20
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
In order to maintain the existing communication protocols currently in place at the City, the Plant Main
Control Panel will utilize a new Tesco L2000 PLC with a Wonderware based Operator Interface Panel.
The new Tesco L2000 PLC will be the plant’s primary connection point to the existing City-wide
SCADA system. The MBR Main Control Panel will be required to provide a PLC capable of Modicon
Modbus communication, preferably a Modicon PLC and will also be equipped with a Wonderware based
Operator Interface Panel. This would allow for a Modicon Modbus communication network that would
provide for a connection for the existing Influent Pump Station PLC, the existing Effluent Pump Station
PLC, the new MBR PLC and any other new PLCs associated with any pre-packaged control systems such
as the fine screens. The Modbus communication network would be then connected to the new Plant Tesco
L2000 PLC. This configuration would provide the City’s SCADA system direct access to all of the
various plant PLCs.
With an existing city-wide Wonderware based SCADA system, the new Operator Interface Panels should
also utilize Wonderware based software. The Operator Interface Panels would allow for local operation of
the new plant independent from the city-wide SCADA system but would also simplify the integration of
the Operator Interface Panel Displays into the City-wide SCADA system. With this approach, plant
operations would then be performed locally at the operator interface panels or from any of the existing
SCADA workstations. The existing SCADA system would be updated to monitor and control the new
plant processes and allow the existing SCADA system to handle data logging, data monitoring and report
generation for the new plant.
Currently the DWTP is staffed 9 hours per day during the week and checked once per day on the
weekend. An operator is on call the rest of the time. It is expected that during start-up the new MBR
plant may be staffed 16-24 hours per day, but will transition to 8 to 12 hours per day as the system is
debugged and operating experience is gained. A certified operator will be on-call whenever it is not
staffed, aided by an extensive SCADA system with phone dial out and remote computer access. The
initial contact person for DWTP alarms will be Dennis Rose, City of Hollister Wastewater Supervisor, at
telephone 831-524-1880.
Article 8, §60337. Power Supply
The DWTP has a loss of power supply alarm and a standby power source, as required under 22 CCR
§60337(a). Backup power for the entire WWTP is supplied by two generators (2500 kW and 1500 kW)
which are located in the electrical yard area southeast of the MBR building. The backup power supply
operates automatically when power is lost for a preset amount of time.
Article 9, §60339. Primary Treatment
This section of the Code is not applicable to the Hollister DWTP because it applies to facilities that
produce primary effluent for reuse. The Hollister DWTP will produce only disinfected tertiary treated
effluent for reuse. Primary and secondary treatment both occur in the MBR tanks.
Article 10, §60341. Emergency Storage or Disposal
The MBR influent distribution structure will be designed to overflow to the SSB in case of emergency. A
minimum of 16 million gallons of storage capacity will be available in the SSB for emergency conditions,
providing the ability to divert and store more than 3 days of continuous average daily flow (at the design
flow rate of 5.0 mgd) or more than 6 days of continuous average daily flow (at the current ADWF of 2.6
mgd). A decant pump station will be designed to allow pumping of the SSB contents back to the
pretreatment facility for processing through the plant.
All of the pumping facilities are connected to the standby power source for the facility. All of the
necessary sensors, instruments, and valves to enable fully automatic diversion of untreated or partially
treated wastewater to the emergency storage facility have been installed.
Article 10, §60343. Primary Treatment
April 2008 2-21
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
The provisions of §60343 require multiple primary treatment units, or standby primary units, or long term
storage. Primary treatment is combined with secondary treatment and filtration in an MBR treatment
plant. The design provides multiple primary/secondary treatment units by virtue of providing four MBR
process trains. The DWTP has sufficient capacity for at least one MBR process train to remain out or
service, in standby mode, at all influent flow loadings up to the rated 5.0 mgd design flow.
Article 10, §60345. Biological Treatment
Primary treatment is combined with secondary (biological) treatment in an MBR treatment plant. The
design provides multiple biological treatment units by virtue of providing four process trains and four
membrane trains. The WWTP has sufficient capacity for at least one MBR process train to be taken out
of service, at all influent flow loadings up to the rated 5.0 mgd design flow. The biological treatment
process is monitored with alarms described under Article 8, §60335, above.
Article 10, §60347. Secondary Sedimentation
Secondary sedimentation is not required in an MBR facility because the microfiltration membranes
separate the solids from the treated effluent.
Article 10, §60349. Coagulation
The Code requirements for reliability and redundancy features for the uninterrupted feed of coagulant are
not applicable to the DWTP because coagulant is not used in the membrane microfiltration process.
Coagulation facilities are not required for microfiltration processes because the small pore size of the
membranes provides an absolute barrier to solids particles larger than an approximate size of 0.04
microns.
Article 10, §60351. Filtration
Primary treatment is combined with secondary treatment and filtration in an MBR treatment plant. The
reliability features for filtration required under this section of the Code are met by the same design
features cited in §60343 and §60345 above. The facility provides four process trains. As originally
outfitted with an initial membrane capacity of 1 mgd per train, only three process trains will be required
to treat the current average daily dry weather flow of 2.6 mgd. The MBR trains are sized to produce the
peak day flow with one MBR train out of service. Together with the alarms described under §60335,
above, the requirements of §60351 are met. In addition, the design provides short term retention (storage)
in the SSB adequate for more than 6 days of influent at the current ADWF of 2.6 mgd.
Article 10, §60353. Disinfection
The DWTP will use liquid sodium hypochlorite for chlorine disinfection of the MBR permeate to produce
Disinfected Tertiary Recycled Water. The two CCBs are designed to provide the following reliability
features for the uninterrupted disinfection feed:
(cid:120) Standby chemical feed pumps
(cid:120) Automatic residual control of disinfection dosage
(cid:120) On-line continuous automatic measuring and recording of chlorine residual
(cid:120) Alarms
Sampling pumps will be used to withdraw samples from the CCB to the chlorine residual/ oxidation-
reduction potential (ORP) monitoring equipment. The chlorine residual and ORP will be monitored at the
influent end of the basin. The influent chlorine residual and ORP will be monitored to insure adequate
chlorine has been added and will also be used to detect a chlorination system failure. The effluent chlorine
residual will be monitored to insure compliance with Title 22 CT requirements for recycled water
disinfection. The chlorine residual analyzers will be mounted adjacent to the CCB. Signals from the
April 2008 2-22
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
analyzers will be incorporated into the plant control system and SCADA system. These signals will be
used to generate alarms to warn the operators of chlorination system failures or malfunctions.
2.7 Supplemental Water Supply
The Hollister DWTP includes recycled water storage that will provided supplemental water during
periods when recycled water is not being produced. The available water in storage will depend on the
time of year. Future recycled water customers may also have backup groundwater supplies or potable
water backup. The City’s rules and regulation, construction inspection program, cross connection testing
program, and user self monitoring reporting are targeted at preventing cross connections from occurring.
The initial use areas (Airport and Brigantino Park) will not have any onsite supplemental supplies.
Any supplemental water sources will be protected with double check valves, reduced pressure principle
backflow devices, or by air gap connections, as required under Sections 7601-7604 of Title 17 of the
California Code of Regulations. Specific sources of supplemental water supply and the methods of cross-
connection control will vary for each recycled water use area and are to be further defined in use area
applications and plans that will be submitted to DPH for review.
2.8 Monitoring and Reporting
Monitoring and reporting for the treatment facility and distribution system will be performed by the City
in compliance with Title 22 regulations, Waste Discharge Requirement (WDR), and the MRP. Required
testing will be performed by the City’s lab.
The major instruments at the DWTP associated with recycled water production and compliance are shown
in Table 2-4 along with location, sampling frequency, and calibration/maintenance frequency. The
location for these instruments ensures that any non-spec water is detected prior to entry into the recycled
water facilities, thereby protecting the integrity of the recycled water store or in the system. This
approach will allow the use of stored recycled water while the cause of off-spec water is corrected.
Sampling for total coliform concentrations will be accomplished through daily grab samples at the end of
the chlorine contract basin per Title 22 CCR §60343.
Table 2-4: Instrumentation List for Recycled Water Production
Calibration or
Sampling Maintenance
Instrument Location Frequency Frequency
Magnetic Flow Meter Influent Pump Station Continuous Annually
Turbidity Meters Membrane Permeate Continuous Daily1
Magnetic Flow Meter Membrane Permeate Line Continuous Annually
Chlorine Analyzer Chlorine Basin Influent Continuous Daily1
Chlorine Analyzer Chlorine Basin End Continuous Daily1
Magnetic Flow Meter Distribution Pipeline Continuous Annually
Level indication RW Pump Station Wet Well Continuous Annually
Refrigerated Per vendor
Composite Sampler Chlorine Basin Effluent Flow Based specification
Footnotes:
1. Turbidity meters and chlorine analyzers are checked daily and calibrated as needed.
Distribution and use site monitoring will include cross connection testing, user self monitor reporting, and
user reporting on facility modification logs.
April 2008 2-23
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter 2 Recycled WaterProject
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
2.9 Contingency Plan
Section 60323 of the California Code of Regulations requires that this report contain a contingency plan
designed to prevent untreated or inadequately treated wastewater from being delivered to the use area(s).
As discussed below, the monitoring system together with the SCADA, alarm system and automated
control valves will prevent inadequately treated wastewater from leaving the plant and being delivered to
the recycled water use areas.
Section 60323 requires a list of conditions that would require an immediate diversion of the recycled
water to take place. The following conditions would indicate the possibility that the plant is producing
inadequately treated effluent. The occurrence of any of the following conditions would result in shutting
down the MBR permeate pumps and the effluent pumps, closing the CCB influent flow and diverting
undisinfected permeate to the onsite percolation beds:
(cid:120) If the turbidity of the filtered water exceeds 0.5 NTU;
(cid:120) If the calculated CT falls below 450 mg-minutes/L;
(cid:120) If an effluent total coliform bacteria result in any sample is greater than an MPN of 23 per 100
mL, or if the 7-day median concentration of total coliform is greater than an MPN of 2.2 per 100
mL; (this is not an automatic function)
(cid:120) If the chlorine residual falls below 0.5 mg/L or rises above 8.0 mg/L; or
(cid:120) If complete failure of a unit process causes the treatment process to not meet the process train
requirements of the Water Recycling Criteria. (this is not an automatic function)
In all cases where a shutdown is required, an investigation will be conducted to determine the cause of the
incident, and the recycled water will not be redirected to the equalization basin until the problem has been
corrected and the effluent conditions have returned to acceptable levels.
Section 60323 requires a plan for the disposal or treatment of inadequately treated effluent and a
description of diversion procedures. In cases of inadequate treatment, diversion is accomplished by the
MBR influent distribution structure, which is designed to overflow to the SSB in case of emergency. A
minimum of 16 million gallons of storage capacity will be available in the SSB for diversion of influent
raw wastewater. A decant pump station pumps the SSB supernatant back to the pretreatment facility for
processing through the plant, when diversion conditions are remedied.
April 2008 2-24
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter3RecycledWaterTransmission and Distribution
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
Chapter 3 Recycled Water Transmission and Distribution
This chapter is intended to provide the information required by Section 3.0 in the Guidelines for the
Preparation of an Engineering Report (DHS, March 2001). The sections below provide an overview of
the system transmission and distribution system. Detailed plans of the recycled water pipelines to be
constructed are included in Appendix D.
3.1 Recycled Water Transmission and Distribution System Overview
The Project includes approximately 9 miles of distribution pipelines as seen in Figure 3-1 and will be
supplied by a recycled water distribution pump station located at the DWTP. The distribution pump
station consists of four vertical turbine pumps in a wet well that discharges into the distribution header
pipe. The pump station wet well can be fed directly from the chlorine contact basin or from the DWTP
recycled water storage pond.
In its initial phase, the Project will have two separate recycled water use sites (Airport and Brigantino
Park). Additional information on the recycled water use sites can be found in Appendix C. Transmission
pipeline sizes vary from 12 to 20 inches. The system has a total delivery capacity of about 3,300 gallons
per minute (gpm).
Future recycled water customers along the alignments could be served off of the recycled water
transmission pipelines though new laterals and/or turnouts. Additional transmission mains are also being
considered to serve other areas.
All proposed pipelines and appurtenances are being designed and will be installed in accordance with
guidelines and regulations pertaining to the distribution of recycled water in California including the
following:
(cid:120) Guidelines for Distribution of Non-potable Water from the California-Nevada Section –
American Water Works Association (AWWA)
(cid:120) Disinfected Tertiary Recycled Water Guidelines: On-site Facility Retrofitting from California-
Nevada Section – AWWA
(cid:120) California Waterworks Standards from CCR – Title 22
(cid:120) Regulations Relating to Cross-connections from Title 17, Chapter 5, Group 4
(cid:120) Manual of Cross-connections Control/Procedures and Practices from DHS
Appendix D includes plans of the transmission lines for the recycled water system with a table describing
the separation requirements.
April 2008 3-1
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter3RecycledWaterTransmission and Distribution
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
Figure 3-1: Map of Hollister Recycled Water Distribution System
H
w
y
2 5 Road
Fallon
6
wy 1 5 U P R
H R
WrightRoad
McCloskeyRoad
d
a
o
R
e
BuenaVistaRoad
el
p
i
F SantaAnaRoad
n
a
S
Hwy156
Legend
RW Distribution Pipelines
Major Roads
Domestic WW Treatment Plant
Industrial WW Treatment Plant
Brigantino Park
Airport
April 2008 3-2
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter3RecycledWaterTransmission and Distribution
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
3.2 Recycled Water Pipeline Design Criteria
The Project must comply with the requirements of Title 22. Project design criteria have been established
and utilized in the design of the transmission and distribution system. Key design criteria are summarized
in Table 3-1 and have been incorporated into the pipeline designs. These criteria will also be used in the
design of any future connections. Compliance with this criteria is described in the table in Appendix D
include with the recycled water pipeline drawings.
Table 3-1: Recycled Water Pipeline Design Criteria
Horizontal Separation for Parallel Construction
Pipe Separation Construction Requirements
Greater than 10 feet separation No special construction required
Between 4 to 10 feet separation Must meet one of the following requirements:
(cid:120) Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
(cid:120) Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
(cid:120) Welded steel
(cid:120) HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
(cid:120) Fused PVC
Less than 4 feet separation Not allowed
Vertical Separation at Crossings
Pipe Separation Construction Requirements
Less than 4 inches below Not allowed
Potable
A full standard pipe length must be centered below the crossing and
must also meet one of the following requirements:
4 to 12 inches below (cid:120) Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
potable (cid:120) Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
(cid:120) Welded steel
(cid:120) HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
(cid:120) Fused PVC
12 inches or greater below
No special construction required
potable
Less than 4 inches above
Not allowed
potable
A full standard pipe length must be centered over the crossing and must
also meet one of the following requirements:
4 inches or greater above (cid:120) Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
potable (cid:120) Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
(cid:120) Welded steel
(cid:120) HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
(cid:120) Fused PVC
Notes:
1. Guidance Memo No. 2003-02: Guidance Criteria for the Separation of Water Mains and Non-Potable
Pipelines, Department of Health Services, October 16, 2003.
April 2008 3-3
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter3RecycledWaterTransmission and Distribution
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
3.3 Recycled Water Pipeline Materials
Pipeline materials used for the recycled water distribution system include PVC, ductile iron (DI), and
high density polyethylene (HDPE). HDPE or DI pipe is utilized for trenchless crossings within a steel
casing. The requirements for pipe materials, as stipulated in the project specifications, are summarized in
Table 3-2.
Table 3-2: Recycled Water Pipe Material Uses and Standards
Pipe
Material Uses Fittings Standards Additional Requirements
Preferred material Pipe shall be purple (Pantone
Ductile AWWA C900 and
PVC for pressure less No. 512) and colored at the time
Iron C905
than 150 psi of extrusion.
Restrained joint
lengths, Restrained Pipe will have purple (Pantone
Ductile AWWA C150 and
trenchless Ductile No. 512) polyethylene vinyl wrap
Iron C151
crossing carrier Iron (AWWA C105).
pipe
Trenchless Butt-
HDPE AWWA C906 Pipe shall have purple stripe.
crossing Fused
3.4 Recycled Water Pipeline Installation
Recycled water pipelines will be installed using open trench construction where possible. Where open
trench construction is not possible (crossing of highways and railroad tracks), a trenchless construction
method such as bore and jack will be used to install a casing, through which the recycled water pipeline is
installed.
The contractor will be made responsible for verifying the location of all existing crossing and parallel
(within 3 feet) utilities in advance of construction.
Care will be taken during installation to prevent cross-connections between the existing potable and the
new recycled water systems.
3.5 Recycled Water Pipeline Identification
All recycled water pipeline facilities will be appropriately identified, following the AWWA California-
Nevada Section’s Guidelines for Distribution of Non-Potable Water (1992). As stipulated in the design
construction contract documents, underground warning tape shall be shall be placed 12 inches above
buried pipe. The warning tape will be purple (Pantone 512) and read “Recycled Water – Do Not Drink-
No Tomar.” Detection wire shall also be installed for all non-metallic pipes to identify recycled water
facilities.
3.6 Distribution System Valves and Appurtenances
Valve covers will have a recognizable inscription cast on the top surface or name plate which reads
“Recycled Water – Do Not Drink – No Tomar.” All exposed appurtenances will have a warning tag
reading “Recycled Water – Do Not Drink – No Tomar.”
April 2008 3-4
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter4Recycled WaterUseAreas
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
Chapter 4 Recycled Water Use Areas
This chapter is intended to provide information on the City of Hollister Recycled Water Use Program
(Program) to meet the requirements of Section 4.0 in the Guidelines for the Preparation of an
Engineering Report (DHS, March 2001). The Program is tailored to establish rules and requirements for
users to meet Title 22 for use areas. This Program shall facilitate issuance of a MRP from the RWQCB.
Detailed information on the initial recycled water users (Hollister Airport and Brigantino Park) are
include in Appendix C. This chapter includes the following information:
(cid:120) Overview of recycled water program,
(cid:120) Planned recycled water uses,
(cid:120) Use area design,
(cid:120) Inspection and monitoring, and
(cid:120) Employee training.
4.1 Recycled Water Use Area Program Overview
The City will be implementing the Program to incorporate users into the recycled water project. The
Program includes various materials that will help ensure that the Regulations of Title 22 are complied
with at all use sites. The City’s Program materials include:
(cid:120) Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service (Appendix A)
(cid:120) User Application for Recycled Water Service
(cid:120) Recycled Water Plan Review Checklist
(cid:120) Recycled Water Standard Details
(cid:120) Construction Inspection Checklist
(cid:120) Cross Connection Certification
(cid:120) Recycled Water User Permit
(cid:120) Recycled Water Annual Self Monitoring Report
(cid:120) Site Modification Log
Copies of the draft Program materials are included in Appendix B.
4.2 General Recycled Water Use Information
The City of Hollister will be the responsible party for the distribution system up to the service
connections (i.e. turnout, water meter, etc.) to the Customer/User. The application process for recycled
water service and use includes an application where users will identify the following use area information
and characteristics:
(cid:120) Type of land use
(cid:120) Type of reuse proposed
(cid:120) Customer name and designated onsite user supervisor
(cid:120) Use area containment measures
(cid:120) Map showing areas of use, public access, surrounding land, location and details of wells, location
and type of signage
(cid:120) Description of employee or public access
April 2008 4-1
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter4Recycled WaterUseAreas
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
(cid:120) Where potable and recycled water lines exist, a description of cross connection control
procedures
This information shall be supplemented with additional information as required for specific uses
described in the subsequent sections below.
The City will review applications for completeness and conformance with recycled water requirements.
Following City review, the City shall then submit the application package to the DPH for final review of
the use site.
4.3 Irrigation
The long-term vision for the City is to use recycled water for a variety of irrigation uses as allowed per
Section 60304 of the California Code of Regulations Title 22. Near-term use of recycled water would
only be for golf course, park, and airport irrigation. The list of long-term irrigation uses includes:
(cid:120) Food crops, including all edible root crops, where the recycled water comes into contact with the
edible portion of the crop
(cid:120) Parks and playgrounds
(cid:120) School yards
(cid:120) Unrestricted and restricted access golf courses
(cid:120) Cemeteries
(cid:120) Freeway landscaping
(cid:120) Ornamental nursery stock and sod farms where access by the general public is not restricted
(cid:120) Pasture for animals producing milk for human consumption
(cid:120) Non-edible vegetation with controlled access
(cid:120) Orchards, vineyards, non-food bearing trees
Irrigation use sites will be required to submit an application and use area plans to the City for review prior
to receiving recycled water service. The City’s application for recycled water service (see Appendix B)
requires information from the irrigation user including:
(cid:120) Description of what will be irrigated
(cid:120) Method of irrigation (e.g. spray, flood, drip)
(cid:120) Location of domestic water supply facilities in or adjacent to use area
(cid:120) Description of site drainage
(cid:120) List of drinking water fountains, bleachers, and designated outdoor eating areas
(cid:120) Proposed schedule for irrigation
(cid:120) Public warning signs location and wording (if different from the City standard sign)
All irrigation use sites will be required to protect against ponding of recycled water and overspray of
recycled water onto public use facilities.
4.4 Landscape Impoundments
The City is planning to utilize recycled water for landscape impoundments as allowed per Section 60305
of the California Code of Regulations Title 22.
Use sites using recycled water in a landscape impoundment will be required submit an application and use
area plans, as well as, a procedure to assure that recycled water is not discharged from the impoundment
due to seasonal storm events or the collection of runoff. This could include reducing the use of recycled
April 2008 4-2
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter4Recycled WaterUseAreas
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
water to coincide with the start of the wet season. The City’s application for recycled water service (see
Appendix B) requires information from the landscape impoundment users including:
(cid:120) Description of the degree of public access to the impoundment
(cid:120) Description of site drainage
4.5 Other Planned Recycled Water Uses
There are other recycled water uses allowed per Sections 60304 through 60307 of the California Code of
Regulations Title 22. The following uses are planned as part of the Hollister recycled water:
(cid:120) Nonstructural fire fighting
(cid:120) Backfill consolidation around non-potable piping
(cid:120) Soil compaction
(cid:120) Mixing concrete
(cid:120) Dust control on roads and streets
(cid:120) Cleaning roads, sidewalks and outdoor work areas
(cid:120) Flushing sanitary sewers
Use sites using recycled water for one of the uses listed above will be required to submit an application
and use area plans to the City for review prior to receiving recycled water service.
4.6 Use Area Design
This section describes how the recycled water use sites will be designed, operated, and maintained to
comply with applicable recycled water use criteria and regulations.
4.6.1 Signage
All recycled water use sites that are accessible to the public will be posted with signs conforming to the
requirements of Section 60310 (g) of the California Code of Regulations Title 22. All signs will be in
English and Spanish. In order to notify non-readers and those who speak neither English nor Spanish, all
signs will also include a graphic indicating that water is non-potable. Signs will be posted at all use areas
that are accessible to the public and will be clearly visible to the public. Proposed project signage is
shown in Appendix B as part of the recycled water standard details. Signs will be at least 4 inches high
by 8 inches wide.
In addition to signs, new recycled water piping, equipment and appurtenances will be colored purple as
described in Error! Reference source not found. - Error! Reference source not found..
4.6.2 Use Area Containment Measures, Drainage, and Ponding Minimization Measures
All recycled water use sites will comply with the City’s recycled water use requirements as well as the
requirements of Section 60310 of the California Code of Regulations Title 22. Specifically, all recycled
water use sites will:
(cid:120) Preclude irrigation with tertiary recycled water within 50 feet of any domestic water supply well,
unless requirement in Section 60310 (a) of the California Code of Regulations allowing for closer
irrigation are met;
(cid:120) No impoundment of disinfected tertiary recycled water shall occur within 100 feet of any
domestic water supply well;
(cid:120) Confine irrigation runoff to the recycled water use areas, unless the runoff does not pose a public
health threat and is authorized by the regulatory agency;
(cid:120) Perform irrigation in a manner that minimizes ponding or runoff of recycled water;
April 2008 4-3
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter4Recycled WaterUseAreas
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
(cid:120) Ensure that no spray, mist, or runoff enters any dwellings, designated outdoor eating areas, or
food handling facilities; and
(cid:120) Ensure that all drinking water fountains are protected from contact with recycled water spray,
mist, or runoff.
4.6.3 Minimizing Public Contact
It is expected that the use sites corresponding to the recycled water uses allowed under the City’s Program
will have varying degrees of public access. All drinking water fountains, designated outdoor eating areas,
bleachers and other public gathering areas located at use sites will be protected against overspray of
recycled water. Use sites with public access will also be restricted from having hose bibs on the piping
system utilizing recycled water. As discussed in Section 4.6.1, all use sites will have signs posted that are
clearly visible to the public and indicate that the irrigation water is non-potable.
4.6.4 Cross Connection Control
4.6.4.1 Distribution System
Because the recycled water system will be new, there are no cross-connections in the system. As
described in Section 3.4, special care will be taken during installation to ensure that cross-connections
between the potable and recycled water systems do not occur.
In general, cross-connection control monitoring will be the responsibility of the City. Monitoring will be
mainly comprised of observation of the pipeline alignment to detect any illegal connections. Comparing
customer meter records to the recycled water and City supply meters will also be done to detect flow
imbalances, which could be an indication of a leak or illegal connection. Cross-connection monitoring
activities will be reported as required in the MRP.
4.6.4.2 Recycled Water Use Site System
Inspection and testing for user site cross-connections will be the responsibility of the City and User
Supervisors. The City‘s cross-connection control program for use site systems will include training of
User Supervisors concerning the testing and monitoring process and the importance of preventing cross-
connections. Cross-connection control measures for user sites are detailed in the City’s RW Use
Handbook. Cross-connection testing will be completed by a Cross-Connection Control Specialist
certified through the California-Nevada Section of the AWWA. The Cross Connection Certification
Form (see Appendix B) will be completed and filed by the Cross-Connection Control Specialist before
beginning recycled water service.
4.7 Use Area Testing, Inspections, and Monitoring
4.7.1 Construction Inspections and Testing During Start-Up
The City and its contractors will be responsible for construction inspections to ensure that new
construction meets the criteria for recycled water systems and design requirements for the Project.
Following construction, a final inspection of new facilities will be conducted by the City and its
contractors. The final inspection will make certain that the system is in compliance with the MRP,
including requirements for system identification, signage, backflow installations, and site containment.
As part of the final inspection process, the City will conduct cross-connection testing to verify system
separation in accordance with all applicable guidelines. Where appropriate, the City will also conduct
user site cross-connection tests to confirm separation of on-site domestic facilities and the recycled water
system.
April 2008 4-4
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Chapter4Recycled WaterUseAreas
Title 22 Engineers Report
DRAFT
4.7.2 Ongoing Monitoring, Testing and Reporting Responsibilities
The City will be responsible for monitoring and reporting activities as outlined in the MRP and WDR.
The City will regularly monitor use area conditions and will also rely on User Supervisors to notify the
City of any violations of permit requirements. User Supervisors will be trained by the City concerning
potential problems and measures for preventing problems.
In the event that a non-compliance event is discovered by the User Supervisors, they will immediately
contact the City. If the event does not endanger public health or the environment, City staff will prepare
an on-site observation report of the violation. In the event that a non-compliance event occurs that may
endanger public health or the environment, the City will verbally notify the RWQCB and DPH within 24
hours. Upon RWQCB or CDPH staff request, a written report will be submitted and will contain a
description of the non-compliance event, its cause, and any corrective actions taken.
The City’s testing and inspection activities as part of the recycled water program will include:
(cid:120) Cross-connection tests, performed every five years
(cid:120) Annual testing of backflow assemblies
(cid:120) On-site observation reports
(cid:120) Tracking of pumped flow and total flow used at turnouts
(cid:120) Tracking of distribution system changes
4.8 Training of Distributor and Users
4.8.1.1 Training for City of Hollister Staff
The Recycled Water Supervisor identified by the City (see Section 2.3.2) will be trained on recycled
water use criteria and on implementation procedures for the programs outlined in the MRP. In addition,
at least one City staff person will be certified in cross-connection control to carry out the City’s cross
connection control program (see Section 4.6.4).
4.8.1.2 Training for Use Area Employees
The City will offer quarterly training to the User Supervisors (see Section 2.3.3). Each site receiving
recycled water must have a User Supervisor certified through the City’s training program. Training shall
include:
(cid:120) Procedures for handling and use of recycled water;
(cid:120) Rules and regulations stipulated in the MRP and in the City’s RW Use Handbook; and
(cid:120) Basic cross-connection and backflow principles and procedures.
User Supervisors will be responsible for training other site employees on a continual basis.
April 2008 4-5
City of Hollister Recycled Water Project Title 22 Engineers Report References
DRAFT
References
American Water Works Association. Guidelines for Distribution of Nonpotable Water. California-Nevada
Section of the American Water Works Association. 1992.
American Water Works Association. Guidelines for On-Site Retrofit of Facilities Using Disinfected
Tertiary Recycled Water. California-Nevada Section of the American Water Works Association. 1997.
California Department of Health Services. Guidance Memo No. 2003-02: Guidance Criteria for the
Separation of Water Mains and Non-Potable Pipelines. 2003 October 16.
California Department of Health Services. Guidelines for the Preparation of an Engineering Report for
the Production, Distribution and Use of Recycled Water. March 2001.
California Department of Health Services. Manual of Cross-connections Control/Procedures and
Practices.
California Department of Health Services. The Purple Book. June 2001.
Regulations Relating to Cross-connections from Title 17, Chapter 5, Group 4
April 2008
Appendix A - Draft Recycled Water Use Manual and Rule of
Service Handbook
Recycled Water Use Manual and
Rules of Service
Draft Report
Prepared by:
Water andEnvironment
February 2008
Table of Contents
Chapter 1 Introduction...........................................................................................................1-1
Chapter 2 Obtaining a Recycled Water Use Permit.............................................................2-1
2.1 Approved Uses........................................................................................................2-1
2.2 Application...............................................................................................................2-2
2.3 Design Requirements..............................................................................................2-3
2.4 Construction............................................................................................................2-6
2.5 Inspection................................................................................................................2-6
2.6 Permit......................................................................................................................2-7
Chapter 3 Operating and Maintaining a Recycled Water System......................................3-1
3.1 User Supervisor Responsibilities............................................................................3-1
3.2 Maintenance............................................................................................................3-1
3.3 Hours of Irrigation....................................................................................................3-2
3.4 System Modifications..............................................................................................3-2
3.5 Personnel Training..................................................................................................3-2
3.6 Annual Self Inspection Report.................................................................................3-2
3.7 Emergency Procedures...........................................................................................3-3
3.7.1 Disaster Response..................................................................................................3-3
3.7.2 Unauthorized Discharge..........................................................................................3-3
3.7.3 Cross-Connection...................................................................................................3-3
List of Tables
Table 1-1: City Contacts..........................................................................................................1-1
Table 2-1: Pipe Separation Requirements.............................................................................2-4
Table 2-2: Pipe Depth Requirements.....................................................................................2-5
Appendices
Appendix A - Definitions
Appendix B - Flow Chart
February
2008
List of Abbreviations
AWWA American Water Work Association
DPH Department of Public Health
February
2008
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 1 Introduction
DRAFT
Chapter 1 Introduction
The City of Hollister’s Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service is intended to:
(cid:120) Assist new customers through the application, design and construction process in order to receive
a Recycled Water Use Permit
(cid:120) Serve as a reference source for customers and their Site Supervisors regarding the proper
operation and maintenance of their recycled water system
In order to receive and use recycled water from the City, customers must follow the rules as set forth in
this document.
This document was written to be in compliance with the existing codes, laws, statues and regulations of
the State of California and local governing bodies concerning the currently-approved use of recycled
water. It is not intended to void any of these regulations. The manual is also not intended to void standard
industry practices as presented in the American Water Work Association (AWWA) California-Nevada
Section’s Guidelines for Distribution of Nonpotable Water or Guidelines for the On-site Retrofit of
Facilities using Disinfected Tertiary Recycled Water. However, since legal and regulatory requirements
can change without the knowledge of the City, the City assumes no liability for errors in this manual. If
any section, subsection, clause or phrase of the rules and regulations presented in this document is
determined to be invalid, the remaining portions of these rules and regulations shall remain in effect.
Amendments to this document may be made periodically to comply with State regulations or to meet new
City standards. If amendments are made, existing users will be notified of the new rules of service as
well as the effective date for compliance with the new rules.
Questions regarding the information presented herein should be directed to the City’s Recycled Water
Supervisor. The Recycled Water Supervisor oversees all programs and facilities related to the use of
recycled water distribution by the City and will coordinate with the appropriate City departments to
resolve customer inquiries. Table 1-1 provides contact information for the current Recycled Water
Supervisor as well as an emergency contact number.
Table 1-1: City Contacts
Contact Mailing Address Phone Fax
375 Fifth Street
Dennis Rose (831) 524-1880 (831) 636-4349
Hollister, CA 95023
Emergency: (XXX) XXX-XXXX
February
1-1
2008
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
Chapter 2 Obtaining a Recycled Water Use Permit
2.1 Approved Uses
Each recycled water customer must have a permit from the City prior to receiving recycled water. The
State of California regulates the use of recycled water, as directed under the California Code of
Regulations, Titles 17 and 22. Local authorities, at their discretion, can require or specify what sites
and/or uses of recycled water are to be utilized in their service area so long as it complies with State
requirements.
In the City of Hollister’s service area, recycled water may be used for the following applications, all of
which have been approved by the California Department of Public Health (DPH) under the City’s Master
Permit (Order No. XXXXX):
(cid:120) Irrigation
o Food crops, including all edible root crops, where the recycled water comes into contact
with the edible portion of the crop
o Parks and playgrounds
o School yards
o Unrestricted and restricted access golf courses
o Cemeteries
o Freeway landscaping
o Ornamental nursery stock and sod farms where access by the general public is not
restricted
o Pasture for animals producing milk for human consumption
o Non-edible vegetation with controlled access
o Orchards, vineyards, non-food bearing trees
(cid:120) Landscape Impoundment
(cid:120) Nonstructural Fire Fighting
(cid:120) Other Uses
o Backfill consolidation around non-potable piping
o Soil compaction
o Mixing concrete
o Dust control on roads and streets
o Cleaning roads, sidewalks and outdoor work areas
o Flushing sanitary sewers
The City reserves the right to disallow a proposed use on the grounds of safety, public health, technical
feasibility or other concerns, for which the City's judgment shall be final. At its discretion, the City may
also set forth site specific requirements as conditions for the permitted use.
February 2008 2-1
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
DRAFT
2.2 Application
The first step in obtaining a Recycled Water Use Permit is to submit an Application for Recycled Water
Service.1 Copies of the application form are available from the City upon request. A completed
application form will include:
(cid:120) Property Information: This should include a brief description of the property, including the type
of land uses within the proposed recycled water use area.
(cid:120) Applicant: Applicants must either be the owner or an authorized representative of the property to
be served.
(cid:120) Site Owner: If the site owner is the same as the applicant, this section can be left blank.
(cid:120) Developer/Design Engineer Contact: If applicable, provide contact of person that can respond to
technical questions on the proposed recycled water uses and site development.
(cid:120) User Supervisor: Each recycled water use site owner/operator will appoint a User Supervisor to
be the main point of contact with the City regarding recycled water use. The User Supervisors
will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the programs and procedures for the use of
recycled water, as outlined in the Recycled Water Use Permit and the Recycled Water Use
Manual and Rules of Service. The User Supervisor must be certified through the City’s training
program; if the User Supervisor has not received certification at the time of application, the
certification number can be left blank; however the User Supervisor must be certified in order for
the site to receive a Recycled Water Use Permit. In addition to the standard contact information,
an emergency phone number shall be provided for the User Supervisor. The User Supervisor
must be reachable at all times in case of an emergency.
(cid:120) Proposed Recycled Water Use: Recycled water is approved for irrigation, landscape
impoundments, fire suppression and other uses listed in Section 2.1.
(cid:120) Recycled Water Demand Estimates: The customer’s best estimate should be provided to assist the
City in evaluating the adequacy of the distribution system.
(cid:120) Use Area Containment Measures: For irrigation projects this could include irrigating at
agronomic rates to avoid runoff, constructing slopes to maintain drainage on-site, and/or
installing containment beams. For landscape impoundments, water levels should be reduced
when heading into the wet season to prevent rain induced overflows.
(cid:120) Employee or Public Access: Potential access by employees or the public should be described.
(cid:120) Plans: The plans should show the proposed recycled water use areas and areas to be excluded;
recycled water infrastructure including the location and size of service connections, meters and
backflow devices; a brief description of all special construction requirements, if applicable; areas
of public access; surrounding land uses; construction details of wells in or near the use area; and
location and type of signage that will be used. The design information presented in Section 2.3
should be considered in development of the plans.
(cid:120) Cross-Connection Control Procedures: Where both potable and recycled water lines exist, a
description of cross-connection control procedures shall be submitted.
(cid:120) Additional Attachments: Other site specific information may be required depending on the
proposed recycled water use:
o Location of domestic water supply facilities in or adjacent to use area (for irrigation
projects)
1The Recycled Water Use Permit designates approval for recycled water service. Additional permits may be
necessary for the construction of the recycled water facilities. The customer is responsible for applying for and
obtaining other permits as may be necessary for the construction of the recycled water facilities.
February 2008 2-2
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
DRAFT
o Description of Site Drainage (for irrigation and landscape impoundment projects)
o List of outdoor drinking fountains, bleachers, and designated outdoor eating areas (for
irrigation projects)
(cid:120) Signatures: The application shall be signed by the appointed User Supervisor as well as the
owner or an authorized representative of the property to be served.
Upon receipt of a completed application, the City will review the information submitted to determine
whether the proposed use conforms to the City’s Rules of Service and whether the City has the necessary
capacity to serve the applicant. If revisions to the proposed use are required or if additional information is
needed, the City will contact the applicant and request that the necessary corrections be made or that the
supplemental information be submitted. If the application meets the City’s standards, the City will then
forward a copy of the plans to DPH for review and approval. Following approval by DPH, the City shall
approve use of recycled water per the applicant’s plans.
2.3 Design Requirements
A summary of the basic design requirements for customers’ facilities is provided below:
(cid:120) No Cross-Connections: No cross-connections are allowed between the recycled water system and
the potable water system.
(cid:120) Backflow Prevention:
o Potable System: In order to protect the public drinking water system from accidental
cross-connections, a reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device is required at
all meters that supply potable water to a site where recycled water is present.
Additionally, for sites where the potable water is used as a back-up to the recycled water
system, there must be an air gap separation between the two systems.
o Non-Potable Wells: For agricultural wells that are connected to the customer’s recycled
water distribution system, a double check valve backflow prevention device is required
on the well.
o Recycled Water System: In most cases, backflow prevention devices will not be required
on the recycled water service. Backflow prevention would be required on the customer’s
recycled water system if the City determines that there is a condition on-site that would
threaten the integrity of the recycled water distribution system. Examples of potential
threats to the recycled water distribution system are chemical fertilizer injection systems
that are directly installed on the irrigation system and recycled water impoundments. In
these cases a reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device shall be upstream of
the potential threat.
(cid:120) Pipe Separation: The customer’s recycled water system shall be installed to meet the following
separation requirements from all potable water pipelines.
o Horizontal Pipe Separation: All recycled water service laterals and meters should be at
least 10 feet from the nearest potable water facility, including pipelines, meters and
hydrants. If a ten-foot parallel spacing is not practical, a separation of at least 4 feet may
be allowed subject to the special construction conditions outlined in Table 2-1. Under no
circumstances is horizontal separation of less than four feet or construction in the same
trench as potable water facilities allowed.
o Vertical Pipe Separation: Where a buried constant-pressure recycled water pipeline
crosses a buried potable water pipeline, it should be a minimum of 4 inches below the
potable water pipeline. Constant-pressure recycled water pipelines are allowed over
potable water pipelines with a minimum of 4 inches vertical separation if a full standard
pipe length is centered over the crossing or the recycled water pipeline is installed in a
February 2008 2-3
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
DRAFT
pipe sleeve which extends a minimum of 10 feet on either side of the potable water
piping. The centering of a full standard pipe length over the crossing guarantees that the
recycled water pipe crosses the potable water line at a point that is halfway between
subsequent joints on the recycled water line; this ensures that joints on the recycled water
line are located as far as possible from the potable water line. Intermittently pressurized
irrigation laterals may be located a minimum of 4 inches above potable water pipelines
without sleeving.
Table 2-1: Pipe Separation Requirements
Horizontal Separation for Parallel Construction
Pipe Separation Construction Requirements
Greater than 10 feet No special construction required
separation
Between 4 to 10 feet Must meet one of the following requirements:
separation (cid:120) Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
(cid:120) Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
(cid:120) Welded steel
(cid:120) HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
(cid:120) Fused PVC
Less than 4 feet separation Not allowed
Vertical Separation at Crossings
Pipe Separation Construction Requirements
Less than 4 inches below Not allowed
Potable
A full standard pipe length must be centered below the crossing
and must also meet one of the following requirements:
4 to 12 inches below (cid:120) Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
potable (cid:120) Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
(cid:120) Welded steel
(cid:120) HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
(cid:120) Fused PVC
12 inches or greater below
No special construction required
potable
Less than 4 inches above
Not allowed
potable
A full standard pipe length must be centered over the crossing
and must also meet one of the following requirements:
4 inches or greater above (cid:120) Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
potable (cid:120) Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
(cid:120) Welded steel
(cid:120) HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
(cid:120) Fused PVC
(cid:120) Pipe Depth – The customer’s on-site recycled water piping must be designed to provide a
minimum of 12-36 inches of cover from top of the pipe to finished pavement. The minimum
cover depends on whether the pipes are under constant or intermittent pressure and the pipe size.
These minimum cover requirements are summarized in Table 2-2.
February 2008 2-4
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
DRAFT
Table 2-2: Pipe Depth Requirements
Pipe Type Minimum Cover (in)
Intermittent Pressure, All Sizes 12
Constant Pressure, 2.5” diameter and smaller 18
Constant Pressure, 3-10” diameter 24
Constant Pressure, 12” diameter and larger 36
(cid:120) Pipe Identification:
o New piping: All new recycled water piping below or above grade shall be purple colored
pipe with the words “CAUTION — RECYCLED WATER” printed on the pipe or on
marking tape. Buried recycled water piping shall be laid so that the wording faces
upwards.
o Existing piping: All existing piping above grade must be labeled with purple
identification tape with the imprinted words “CAUTION — RECYCLED WATER,” or
replaced by purple colored pipe with the required wording. Additionally, where feasible
existing piping which is uncovered during construction should be marked with the words
“CAUTION — RECYCLED WATER.”
(cid:120) Recycled Water Warning Tags, Stickers, Labels: All recycled water appurtenances including
valve boxes, quick couplers, recycled water storage tanks, air/vacuum relief valves, pressure
reducing valves, pumps, backflow prevention devices and system controller boxes must be
labeled with purple, weatherproof warning tags, stickers or other labels. The tags, stickers or
labels must include the words “WARNING – RECYCLED WATER — DO NOT DRINK” or
similar wording and “AVISO — AGUA IMPURA — NO TOMAR.”
(cid:120) Potable Water Identification Tags, Stickers, Labels: At sites where both recycled water and
potable water systems are used, all potable water meter and above grade water devices including
backflow prevention devices and hose bibs must be labeled with blue, weatherproof identification
tags, stickers or other labels. The tags, stickers or labels must include the words “POTABLE
WATER” and “AQUA PARA TOMAR.”
(cid:120) Signage: Advisory signs must be posted within the recycled water use area in locations where
they can easily be seen. Lettering on the sign must be at least ½-inch tall and include the words
“RECYCLED WATER” and “DO NOT DRINK – NO BEBER.” At a minimum signs should be
posted at entrances to the site and around outdoor eating areas. Signs should be spaced no further
than 1,000 feet apart.
(cid:120) Quick Coupling Valves: Quick coupling valves used on the recycled water system must be made
specifically for recycled water use. The covers on all quick coupling valves must be permanently
attached and made of purple rubber or vinyl with the words “RECYCLED WATER” imprinted
on the locking cover.
(cid:120) No Hose Bibbs: Hose bibbs are not allowed on the recycled water system. For retrofit systems,
hose bibbs can be replaced by below grade quick coupling valves with locking caps.
(cid:120) No Runoff: The recycled water system must be designed to prevent runoff outside the approved
use area.
(cid:120) No Ponding: Except for permitted landscape impoundments, the recycled water system must be
configured and operated so that ponding does not occur.
(cid:120) No Windblown Spray outside the Approved Use Area; Recycled water irrigation systems must be
configured such that windblown spray will remain within the approved use area.
February 2008 2-5
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
DRAFT
(cid:120) Drinking Fountains, Outdoor Eating Areas, Bleachers: Drinking fountains, outdoor eating areas,
bleachers and similar facilities must be located in areas that will not be subject to spray from
sprinklers. The facilities may be protected by modifying the irrigation system, relocating the
protected facilities, or installing a shielding device.
(cid:120) Protection of Aquifers: No irrigation with recycled water shall take place within a horizontal
distance of 50 feet of any domestic water supply well. All irrigation systems shall be designed
and located accordingly. In addition, all recycled water impoundments must be horizontally
separated by a distance of at least 100 feet from any domestic water supply well.
2.4 Construction
Provided that all permits for construction have been obtained and the City approves the plans submitted
with the Application for Recycled Water Service, construction of the recycled water systems may begin.
As part of the construction process for new facilities a temporary potable water connection will be
required to perform cross-connection and coverage testing. The customer must obtain approval from the
City prior to constructing a jumper (temporary connection) to an on-site potable system. A City inspector
must be on-site when a jumper to the potable water system is made and removed. Jumpers connecting to a
recycled water supply are prohibited at all times. If there are no potable water facilities in the vicinity of
the project, the City at its discretion may eliminate the need for cross-connection testing, and coverage
testing will be waived until recycled water is available to the site.
Because the City is responsible for inspecting the system during and after construction to ensure
compliance with the approved plans, the applicant must notify the City prior to the start of construction
and provide the City with updated construction schedules.
All conceptual or major changes from the approved plans must be approved by the City before
implementation.
2.5 Inspection
The City will maintain and update a Construction Inspection Checklist throughout the construction
process. The elements of the Construction Inspection Checklist are:
(cid:120) Certified User Supervisor Designated: The City must verify that the designated User Supervisor
has been certified through the City’s annual training program.
(cid:120) Utilities Horizontal and Vertical Separation Verified: Through the City’s on-site inspections
during the construction of the system, inspectors will be able to verify adherence to the pipe
separation requirements specified in Section 2.3.
(cid:120) Advisory Signs, Tags and Labeling in Accordance with DPH Approved Plans: The City must
check that the location and type of signage and warning labels match the plans as approved by
DPH.
(cid:120) Additional DPH Requirements Completed: The City is responsible for ensuring that additional
requirements resulting from DPH’s review have been incorporated.
(cid:120) Cross-Connection Test Passed: The customer must conduct a cross-connection test to ensure that
the recycled water system is not connected to the potable water system. The test must be
performed by a certified AWWA cross-connection control specialist provided by the City. In
addition to coordinating with the City to complete the cross-connection test, the customer must
submit a map showing all potable connections that will be removed from the recycled water
system prior to connecting to the meter.
(cid:120) Coverage Test Passed: The customer shall schedule a coverage test walk through to demonstrate
to the City that there is not excessive overspray, runoff or ponding and that no contact occurs
February 2008 2-6
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaininga
Recycled Water Use Permit
DRAFT
between recycled water and drinking water fountains, outdoor eating areas or bleachers. If
adjustments to the system are required that can not be made during the site walk, the City will
issue a punch list and the customer must address each item on the list prior to rescheduling the
coverage test.
(cid:120) Meter Installation: Following the final construction inspection and successful completion of the
cross-connection and coverage tests, the City will coordinate with the customer on installation of
the recycled water meter(s).
(cid:120) On-site System Connected to Recycled Water: Prior to connecting to recycled water system the
City shall verify that all potable water connections, as identified on the customer’s map, have
been removed.
(cid:120) Record Drawings Submitted: The customer is required to submit record drawings. The drawings
must include all changes from the original plans.
2.6 Permit
Once the City has verified that each item on the Inspection Checklist has been completed, a Recycled
Water Use Permit will be issued to the customer. Recycled water service is conditioned upon
requirements which may be attached to the permit and proper operation and maintenance of the system as
discussed in Chapter 3.
If the property is transferred to a new owner or tenant, the customer must notify the City in writing within
30 days to transfer the permit.
If the customer’s recycled water system is found to be in violation of the rules of service, the City will
direct the customer to mitigate for these violations. A site inspection will be scheduled after a reasonable
mitigation period to ensure compliance. Failure to comply will result in termination of recycled water
service until improvements are made.
February 2008 2-7
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 3 Operatingand
Maintaining a Recycled
Water System
Chapter 3 Operating and Maintaining a Recycled Water System
3.1 User Supervisor Responsibilities
As part of the application and permitting process, each recycled water use customer will appoint a User
Supervisor to be the main point of contact with the City regarding recycled water use. The User
Supervisors will be responsible for ensuring compliance with City and State regulations for the use of
recycled water. The User Supervisor will be responsible for:
(cid:120) Ensuring that all use site facilities that serve recycled water are maintained and operated in
accordance with the Recycled Water Use Permit and this manual.
(cid:120) Operating and controlling the irrigation systems in a manner to prevent human consumption of
recycled water, to control and limit runoff, and to prevent contamination of nearby domestic
supply wells, as applicable.
(cid:120) Ensuring that all personnel are educated in practices and procedures for working with recycled
water.
(cid:120) Installing and maintaining signs around the use site.
(cid:120) Preventing cross-connection between recycled water facilities and domestic water facilities.
(cid:120) Notifying, preparing and submitting reports to the City when there are system failures that cause
unauthorized discharges.
(cid:120) Notifying the City for its approval of any proposed modification or additions to facilities.
In the event that a customer wishes to make personnel changes to the User Supervisor position, the City
must be notified in writing, and the newly designated User Supervisor must attend the City’s training
program with 120 days of the personnel change.
3.2 Maintenance
In order to keep the recycled water system in compliance with the City’s rules and regulations, the User
Supervisor shall perform the following preventive maintenance activities:
(cid:120) Perform regular inspections of the entire recycled water system including sprinkler heads, drip
irrigation system emitters, spray patterns, piping and valves, pumps, storage facilities and
controllers.
(cid:120) Immediately repair all broken sprinkler heads, faulty spray patterns, leaking pipes or valves, or
any other noted condition that violates the recycled water use requirements.
(cid:120) Check all recycled water identification signs, tags, stickers, and above grade pipe markings for
their proper placement and legibility. Replace damaged, unreadable, or missing signs, tags,
stickers, and pipe markings.
(cid:120) Check spray patterns to eliminate ponding, runoff and wind blown spray conditions. If evidence
of ponding or runoff is noted, affected areas should be indicated on a sketch and sprinkler heads
should be adjusted to prevent further ponding or runoff. Evidence of mosquitoes breeding within
ponding should be noted and immediately eliminated.
(cid:120) Establish and maintain an accurate record keeping system of all inspections, modifications and
repair work. Records of repairs and system upgrades should be included in a Facilities
Modification Log and submitted to the City with the Annual Self-monitoring Report.
(cid:120) Coordinate with the City to complete a cross-connection test every five years.
(cid:120) Coordinate with the City to complete annual testing of backflow assemblies.
February 2008 3-1
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 3 Operatingand
Maintaining a Recycled
Water System
DRAFT
3.3 Hours of Irrigation
Hours of irrigation with recycled water must be maintained to minimize potential public contact with
recycled water. The following guidelines should be followed:
(cid:120) For areas that are easily accessed by the general public, irrigation must take place during the
periods of least use by the general public, generally between the hours of 9 pm and 7 am.
(cid:120) For areas where public access is restricted or prohibited, such as highway medians, commercial
nurseries, etc., irrigation may occur at all times.
(cid:120) Irrigation of areas accessed by the general public may be performed at other times provided that
the irrigation system is operated manually and is supervised (someone present at all times) to
avoid inadvertently exposing any members of the general public.
(cid:120) Irrigators should take into account that irrigated areas might need a reasonable dry-out period
before the area is accessed by the general public.
3.4 System Modifications
The User Supervisor must obtain approval from the City before modifying an approved recycled water
system. This includes converting any piping used for recycled water back to potable water, such as
switching from a recycled water system to a backup potable water system.
Emergency modifications necessary to prevent contamination, damage or a public health hazard can be
made without the prior approval of the City. However, immediately after the modification has been
implemented and the hazard has been abated, the User Supervisor shall notify the City of the emergency
modifications and file a written report.
3.5 Personnel Training
The User Supervisor is responsible for training all personnel involved with recycled water so they are
familiar with the rules and regulations. At a minimum, the training program should convey the following
information:
(cid:120) The City’s recycled water, although highly treated, is non-potable and must never be used for
human consumption.
(cid:120) Regulations prohibit ponding, windblown spray and runoff of recycled water.
(cid:120) Working with non-potable recycled water is safe if common sense is used and appropriate
regulations are followed.
(cid:120) State law prohibits a connection between the recycled water and the potable water systems.
3.6 Annual Self Inspection Report
An annual self-inspection must be conducted at each use site while the recycled water system is in use.
The User Supervisor must conduct this inspection and provide a report of the inspection to the City using
the City’s Annual Self Inspection Report form. The original report must be submitted to the City with a
copy kept on-site by the User Supervisor.
The following questions must be answered as part of the annual inspection report:
(cid:120) Is there evidence of recycled water runoff from the site? If yes, the User Supervisor must submit a
sketch showing the affected area(s) and estimated volume of runoff.
February 2008 3-2
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 3 Operatingand
Maintaining a Recycled
Water System
DRAFT
(cid:120) Is there an odor due to recycled water at the site? If yes, the User Supervisor must provide a
description of the apparent source, characterization, direction of travel, and any public use areas
or off-site facilities affected by the odors.
(cid:120) Is there evidence of recycled water ponding, and/or evidence of mosquitoes breeding due to
ponded water?
(cid:120) Is there evidence of leaks or breaks in the system piping or tubing?
(cid:120) Are advisory signs, tags and above-ground pipe markings in good condition and properly posted
to inform public that water is recycled?
(cid:120) Is there evidence of plugged, broken or otherwise faulty drip irrigation system emitters or spray
irrigation sprinklers on the site?
(cid:120) In the past year or since the last annual site inspection report, were there any modifications of the
piping or the recycled water system as approved by DPH? If yes, the User Supervisor must
submit a Facilities Modification Log.
(cid:120) In the past year or since the last annual site inspection report, has the site owner, tenant or user
supervisor changed?
(cid:120) What corrective actions are being taken to correct any problems noted in the report?
3.7 Emergency Procedures
3.7.1 Disaster Response
Following a major earthquake, flood, fire or other incident which could likely damage a customer’s
recycled or potable water systems, the User Supervisor should inspect the potable and recycled water
systems for damage as soon as it is safe to do so. If either system appears damaged, both the potable and
recycled water systems should be shut off at their points of connection. If the User Supervisor cannot
inspect the site and damage is expected, then both water systems should be shut off at their points of
connection. The Supervisor should immediately contact the City for further instruction.
3.7.2 Unauthorized Discharge
An unauthorized discharge is defined as any amount of recycled water that leaves the designated use site.
If a system failure results in an unauthorized discharge, every effort should be made to contain the
recycled water and prevent it from entering the storm drain system. The User Supervisor is responsible
for immediately notifying the City of the unauthorized discharge, and then preparing and submitting a
report estimating the volume of discharge, identifying the cause of the system failure and discussing the
corrective measures taken.
In the event that an unauthorized discharge occurs that may endanger public health or the environment,
the City will verbally notify the RWQCB and DPH within 24 hours.
3.7.3 Cross-Connection
If a cross-connection occurs or is suspected of having occurred on the customer’s premises, the User
Supervisor must immediately implement the following Emergency Cross-Connection Response Plan:
(cid:120) Immediately following discovery of the cross-connection, shut down the recycled water supply to
the facility.
(cid:120) Notify the City and DPH of the incident by telephone immediately. The City will notify the local
health department. Within 24 hours the customer’s verbal notifications must be followed by a
written notice to the City that includes an explanation of the nature of the cross-connection, date
and time discovered, steps taken to mitigate the cross-connection and the contact information of
the person reporting the cross-connection.
February 2008 3-3
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 3 Operatingand
Maintaining a Recycled
Water System
DRAFT
(cid:120) Keep the potable system pressurized and post "Do Not Drink" signs at all potable water fixtures
and outlets.
(cid:120) Provide bottled water for employees until the potable water system is deemed safe to drink.
(cid:120) Coordinate with the Cit to collect water samples from the potable water system and perform a 24-
hour bacteriological analysis. If the bacteriological analysis is positive, chlorinate the potable
water system maintaining a chlorine residual of at least 50 mg/l for 24 hours, flush the potable
water system after the 24-hour chlorination period and perform standard bacteriological analysis.
The City shall assist with the sampling and laboratory analyses at the customer’s expense.
(cid:120) Coordinate with the City to conduct a cross-connection test to verify that all cross-connections
were eliminated.
(cid:120) Follow additional procedures outlined by the City, DPH and local health department.
After final approval has been obtained from DPH and the local health department, the City will bring the
recycled water system back into service and inform the customer to remove the "Do Not Drink" signs
from all potable water fixtures and outlets.
February 2008 3-4
Appendix A - Definitions
Whenever the following terms occur in this document, the intent and meaning shall be interpreted as
follows:
AIR GAP A physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a water
supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel. An approved
air gap must be at least twice the diameter of the water supply pipe
measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel, and in no case
less than one inch.
APPROVED USE An application of recycled water in a manner, and for a purpose,
designated in a Recycled Water Use Permit issued by the City and in
compliance with all applicable Regulatory Agency requirements.
APPROVED USE AREA A site with well-defined boundaries designated on the approved Site
Drawings, to receive recycled water for an approved use and
acknowledged by all applicable regulatory Agencies.
CROSS-CONNECTION Any physical connection between any part of a water system used or
intended to supply water for drinking purposes and any source or system
containing water or substance that is not or cannot be approved for human
consumption. This includes direct piping between the two systems,
regardless of the presence of valves, backflow prevention devices, or other
appurtenances.
CUSTOMER Any person, persons or firm including any public utility, municipality or
other public body or institution issued a Recycled Water Use Permit by the
City. They may be the owner, tenant, or property manager as appropriate.
INSPECTOR Any person authorized by the City, the local authorities or the local or state
health agencies to perform inspections on or off the customer's site before
construction, during construction, after construction and during operation.
LANDSCAPE A body of recycled water used for aesthetic enjoyment or which otherwise
IMPOUNDMENT serves a function not intended to include public contact.
NONPOTABLE WATER Water that has not been treated for human consumption in conformance
with the latest edition of the United States Public Health Service Drinking
Water Standards, the California Safe Drinking Water Act, or any other
applicable standards.
ON-SITE Designates or relates to all irrigation facilities downstream of the recycled
water meter.
OVERSPRAY The spray of recycled water outside of the approved irrigation area.
OWNER Any holder of legal title, contract purchaser, or lessee under a lease with an
unexpired term of more than one (1) year, for property for which recycled
water service has been requested or established.
POINT OF This is the point where the customer's system ties to the City’s system.
CONNECTION This is usually at the water meter.
PONDING Unauthorized retention of recycled water on the surface of the ground or
other natural or manmade surface for a period following the cessation of an
approved recycled water use activity.
POTABLE WATER Water that is authorized for human consumption according to the latest
edition of the California Safe-Drinking Water Act, or other applicable
standards.
PUBLIC Any person or persons other than the site owner or employees who may
come in contact with facilities and/or areas where recycled water is
approved for use.
RECYCLED WATER (or Water that meets California Administration Code Title 22,
NONPOTABLE Division 4 of the Environmental Health Water Reclamation
RECYCLED WATER) Criteria and is approved for purposes other than human consumption. For
the purpose of these rules and regulations, “recycled water” refers to
“Nonpotable recycled water.”
RECYCLED WATER A permit issued to the customer as required by DPH and the RWQCB that
USE PERMIT outlines monitoring, self-inspection, reporting, and site-specific
requirements.
RUNOFF Recycled water that is allowed to drain outside the approved use area.
SERVICE The furnishing of recycled water to a customer through a metered
connection to the onsite facilities.
STANDARD PIPE A section of pipe 18 to 20 feet in length that has no joints.
LENGTH
UNAUTHORIZED Any release of recycled water that violates the rules and regulations of City
DISCHARGE or applicable Federal, State or local statutes, regulations, ordinances,
contracts or other requirements.
USER SUPERVISOR The responsible person designated by the customer to provide liaison with
the City. This person must have the authority to carry out any requirements
of the City, must be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
recycled water system, and must prevent potential violations.
VIOLATION Noncompliance with any condition of the Recycled Water Use Permit by
any person, action or occurrence, intentional or unintentional.
Appendix B - Flow Chart
Customer develops
Customer submits an additional information or
Application for Recycled makes revisions as requested
Water Service
City reviews plans for City requests additional
Application does not
conformance with City’s information or revisions
meetrequirements
Rules of Service from customer
Application meets
requirements
DPH reviews and approves DPH requests additional
DPH does not
plans approveplans information or revisions
DPH approves
plans
City gives approval to
construct recycled water
system per approved plans
Customer secures all permits
necessary to begin
construction
Customer notifies City,
begins construction and
provides schedule updates
City inspects system during
and after construction,
including cross-connection
and coverage test
City installs recycled water
meter and customer’s system
Color Code
is connected
Customer
Customer submits record City
drawings
DPH
City issues a Recycled
Water Use Permit
Appendix B - Recycled Water Program Material
Table of Contents
(cid:120) Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Handbook (See Appendix A)
(cid:120) User Application for Recycled Water Service
(cid:120) Plan Review Checklist
(cid:120) Recycled Water Standard Details
(cid:120) Construction Inspection Checklist
(cid:120) Cross Connection Certification
(cid:120) Recycled Water Use Permit
(cid:120) Annual Self Monitoring Report
(cid:120) Facilities Modification Log
CITY OF HOLLISTER
APPLICATION FOR RECYCLED WATER SERVICE
PROPERTY INFORMATION
Site Name
Site Address City Zip
Site Facilities Manager Phone APN Acreage
Description of Property
APPLICANT
Name
Contact Name Title
Address
City Zip
Phone Fax Email
SITE OWNER (IF DIFFERENT FROM APPLICANT)
Name
Contact Name Title
Address
City Zip
Phone Fax Email
DEVELOPER/DESIGN CONTACT
Name
Contact Name Title
Phone Fax Email
USER SUPERVISOR
Name Certification Number
Organization Title
Address
City Zip
Phone Fax Email
Emergency Phone Number
PROPOSED RECYCLED WATER USES
(cid:134) Irrigation (cid:134) Landscape Impoundments (cid:134) Fire Suppression (cid:134)Other
Briefly describe the proposed use checked above. Include types of plants to be irrigated and method of irrigation:
RECYCLED WATER DEMAND ESTIMATES
Estimated Annual Use (cid:134) AF (cid:134) CCF (cid:134) Gallons
Peak Use In Gallons/Minute (GPM)
Hours of Use
Days of Use
Period of Use (cid:134) Use According to Evapotranspiration Needs (cid:134) Year-Round
USE AREA CONTAINMENT MEASURES
Briefly describe the measures to be used:
EMPLOYEE OR PUBLIC ACCESS
Briefly describe the degree of potential access by employees or the public:
ATTACHMENTS
(cid:134) Plans
(cid:134) Cross-connection control procedures
(cid:134) Additional attachments:
USER’S RECYCLED WATER SUPERVISOR APPLICANT
I have read and understand the City of Hollister Recycled I designate the named person as the User’s Recycled Water
Water Use Manual and Rules of Service. I will operate the Supervisor in accordance with the City of Hollister
recycled water system in compliance with all conditions of Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service. I am a
the Permit to Use Recycled Water. principal owner of this site or a duly authorized
representative and certify that the information contained in
this application is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
Print __________________________________________ Print __________________________________________
Signature ______________________________________ Signature ______________________________________
Date __________________________________________ Date __________________________________________
PLAN REVIEW CHECKLIST
Site Name ________________________________________________________________________
Site Address ______________________________________________________________________
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Show proposed use area and areas to be excluded
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Show site/piping plan and details of connection points (including location and size of all water meters)
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Show the proper backflow prevention devices, as applicable
(cid:133)(cid:3) Show the location of all water pipelines (including potable and well lines) crossing the site. If space does
not permit this information to be placed on the irrigation plans, then a separate site or utility plan can be
used to show this information. Exception for an existing irrigation system converting to recycled water:
Although it may not be possible to show the location of all water pipelines at this type of site, all
locations where future recycled water piping must be separated from the potable water piping must be
clearly indicated on the plans.
(cid:133) Indicate proper pipe separation between potable water and recycled water pipelines.
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Specify special construction requirements
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Identify public access points
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Show outdoor drinking fountains, bleachers, and designated outdoor eating areas
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Identify surrounding land uses
(cid:133)(cid:3) Show the location of any wells, lakes, ponds, reservoirs, or other water impoundments located on the site
or within 100 feet of the site, and indicate the type of water source.
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Show location and type of signage to be used
(cid:133)(cid:3)(cid:3)Obtain Department of Public Health approval
COMMENTS:




















CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION CHECKLIST
Site Name ________________________________________________________________________
Site Address ______________________________________________________________________
INITIAL TASK DATE
__________ 1. Certified Site Supervisor Designated ____________
___________________________________ ____________________
Name (Please Print Clearly) Certificate No.
__________ 2. Utilities Horizontal and Vertical Separation Verified ____________
__________ 3. Advisory Signs, Tags and Labeling in Accordance with DPH Approved Plans ____________
__________ 4. Additional DPH Requirements Completed ____________
__________ 5. Cross Connection Test Passed ____________
(cid:134) Completed form attached
(cid:134) Map attached showing all potable connections to be removed from
recycled water system prior to connection to meter
__________ 6. Coverage Test Passed ____________
(cid:134) Map attached showing all potable connections to be removed from
recycled water system prior to connection to meter
__________ 7. Meters Installed ____________
___________________________________ ____________________
Meter Number Size
___________________________________ ____________________
Meter Number Size
___________________________________ ____________________
Meter Number Size
__________ 8. On-site System Connected to Recycled Water Meter ____________
(cid:134) Removal of all potable water connections to the
recycled water system verified
__________ 9. Record Drawings Submitted ____________
COMMENTS:
CROSS CONNECTION CERTIFICATION FORM
Site Name: ______________________________________________________________
Site Meter Location: ______________________________________________________________
Site Address: ______________________________________________________________
Site City & Zip Code: ______________________________________________________________
Retailer: ______________________________________________________________
Service Number: ______________________________________________________________
Date Test Conducted: ______________________________________________________________
Other Attendees at the Test:
Name Company Phone Number
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
_______________________________ ______________________________________ _________________
I, _____________________________________ AWWA Cross-Connection Specialist # __________
(print name)
after carefully reviewing the systems and conducting the test as per California UPC Appendix J, and
City of Hollister Rules and Regulations, find no indication of a cross-connection between the
Recycled Water system and Potable system at the above indicated location:
Signed: ________________________________________Date: _______________ Time: _________
Company: _______________________________________________ Phone: __________________
Address: __________________________________________________________________________
CITY OF HOLLISTER
RECYCLED WATER USE PERMIT
Site Name _______________________________________________________________
Site Address _____________________________________________________________
License # ______________ Effective Date ___________
In accordance with all terms and conditions of the City of Hollister’s Recycled Water Use
Manual and Rules of Service, all City codes, ordinances, resolutions, policies, standards
and with any and all applicable provisions of Federal and/or State laws or regulations as
may currently exist, or may be amended or updated from time to time and any conditions
specific to this site. Permission is hereby granted to
Owner:
Address:
Phone #:
Email Address:
Site Supervisor Name:
Phone #:
Email Address:
to use recycled water at the site as shown on the attached customer connection drawing.
Recycled water customer understands all the conditions of this license and agrees to
comply with all the conditions of this license. Failure to comply with the requirements of
this license may be grounds for administrative action, license revocation, or
disconnection of service.
The Licensee, is hereby given authorization to use recycled water provided that:
(cid:120) The Licensee prohibits cross-connections between the recycled water piping and
potable water piping.
(cid:120) All maintenance personnel are receiving education/training on a continuous basis, of
the presence of recycled water, and the fact that it is not approved for drinking
purposes.
(cid:120) The use of recycled water for irrigation shall be performed during periods that
minimize human contact.
(cid:120) The Licensee must monitor and maintain the system to minimize equipment and
material failure. Broken sprinkler heads, leaks, unreliable valves, etc. should be
repaired/replaced as soon as they become apparent.
(cid:120) Submit a proposal for any changes to the onsite system for the City approval prior to
construction, unless required on an emergency basis.
(cid:120) Ensure that recycled water shall be applied at a rate that does not exceed the
infiltration rate of the soil.
(cid:120) Maintain records of repairs, system upgrades, types and quantities of materials
utilized in the irrigation system, employee training records, and all applicable permit
documents.
(cid:120) The Licensee must submit Annual Self-Monitoring Reports and Facilities
Modification Logs by fax to (831) 636-4310 or by mail to the following address:
City of Hollister
375 Fifth Street
Hollister, CA 95023
Attn: Recycled Water Supervisor
The City shall:
(cid:120) Have the right and responsibility to suspend or terminate recycled water service in the
event that the above conditions are not being adhered to.
(cid:120) Have the right to perform periodic inspections of the site to assure compliance.
Protection of Public Health
The City reserves the right to take any action necessary with respect to the operation of
the Licensee’s recycled water system to safeguard the public health.
Water Quality
City reserves the right to provide the Licensee either recycled water or other non-potable
water as may be in the City’s best interest. City warrants that water quality shall meet all
State health requirements for irrigation purposes.
Fee and Charges
The Licensee shall pay bi-monthly user charges in accordance with the rates established
by the City. The City shall periodically review the user charges and may make
modifications as may be appropriate. The Licensee will be responsible for payment of all
licensing and infraction fees.
Period of Service
City shall provide non-potable water for as long as the Licensee complies with all City
requirements and for as long as the City may be permitted by regulatory agencies.
The Licensee is advised that there may be periods when non-potable water is unavailable
due to system maintenance. The Licensee will be notified in advance of these
occurrences.
User Supervisor
A person who the customer or property owner has designated to be a liaison with the City
shall be available to the City at all times, shall have the authority to carry out any
requirements of the City, and shall be responsible for the installation, operation and
maintenance of the recycled water system and also prevention of potential hazards. This
person is a representative of the property owner.
Certification Statement/Signature Section
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared
under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that
qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my
inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly
responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, and accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and/or disconnection of recycled water service.”
_________________________________
Print (Owner or Authorized Representative)
_________________________________
Signature
_________________________________
Date
“I have reviewed the application package and approve of providing recycled water
service in accordance with provisions contained in this recycled water permit.”
_________________________________
Print (City Representative)
_________________________________
Signature
_________________________________
Date
ANNUAL SELF MONITORING REPORT
Site Name ________________________________________________________________________
Site Address ______________________________________________________________________
License # _____________________
Yes No
1. Is there evidence of recycled water runoff from the site? If yes, please (cid:133) (cid:133)
sketch affected area on a separate sheet and estimate runoff volume.
2. Is there an odor due to recycled water at the site? If yes, please provide a (cid:133) (cid:133)
description of the apparent source, characterization, direction of travel, and
any public use areas or off-site facilities impacted by the odor.
3. Is there evidence of ponding of recycled water, and/or evidence of (cid:133) (cid:133)
mosquitoes breeding due to ponded water?
4. Is there evidence of leaks or breaks in the system pipelines or tubing? (cid:133) (cid:133)
5. Are advisory signs, tags and above-ground pipe marketing in good (cid:133) (cid:133)
condition and properly posted to inform public that water is recycled?
6. Is there evidence of plugged, broken or otherwise faulty drip irrigation (cid:133) (cid:133)
system emitters or spray irrigation sprinklers on the site?
7. Has a cross-connection test been performed on the system within the past (cid:133) (cid:133)
five years? If potable water is not available on site, please skip this question.
8. Have the backflow assemblies passed annual testing? If not applicable, (cid:133) (cid:133)
please skip this question.
9. In the past year or since the last annual site inspection report, have there (cid:133) (cid:133)
been any modifications of the piping for the recycled water system? If yes,
please complete the Facilities Modification Log.
10. In the past year or since the last annual site inspection report, has the (cid:133) (cid:133)
site owner, tenant or user supervisor changed? If yes, please fill out the
Change of Information on the back of the form.
11. Describe actions being taken to correct the problems noted above
12. Additional Comments:
Change of Information
Site Owner
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
NAME
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
CONTACT NAME TITLE
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
CITY ZIP
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
PHONE FAX EMAIL
User Supervisor
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
NAME CERTIFICATION NUMBER
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
ORGANIZATION ADDRESS
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
CITY ZIP
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
PHONE FAX EMAIL
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
EMERGENCY PHONE NUMBER
I certify that the information in this report, to the best of my knowledge, is correct and true.
_________________________________________ _______________________________ ________________________________
User Supervisor Signature User Supervisor Certification Number Date of Inspection
FACILITIES MODIFICATION LOG
Site Name ________________________________________________________________________
Site Address ______________________________________________________________________
License # _____________________
Description of Modification Date of City Date of
Approval Implementation
Appendix C - Recycled Water Use Area Applications and
Site Plans
Table of Contents
(cid:120) Select Brigantino Park Drawings
(cid:120) Select Airport Irrigation Project Drawings
Appendix D - Transmission Line Plans
Table of Contents
(cid:120) Select DWTP Project Drawings
(cid:120) Select IWTP Pipeline Project Drawings
(cid:120) Select Airport Pipeline Project Drawings
Recycled Water Use Manual and
Rules of Service
CITY OF HOLLISTER
WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY
June 2010
Table of Contents
Chapter 1 Introduction.............................................................................................................1-1
Chapter 2 Obtaining a Recycled Water Use Permit..............................................................2-1
2.1 Approved Uses.........................................................................................................2-1
2.2 Application................................................................................................................2-2
2.3 Design Requirements...............................................................................................2-3
2.4 Construction..............................................................................................................2-6
2.5 Inspection..................................................................................................................2-6
2.6 Permit........................................................................................................................2-7
Chapter 3 Operating and Maintaining a Recycled Water System.......................................3-1
3.1 User Supervisor Responsibilities..............................................................................3-1
3.2 Maintenance.............................................................................................................3-1
3.3 Hours of Irrigation.....................................................................................................3-2
3.4 System Modifications................................................................................................3-2
3.5 Personnel Training....................................................................................................3-2
3.6 Annual Self Inspection Report..................................................................................3-2
3.7 Emergency Procedures............................................................................................3-3
3.7.1 Disaster Response...................................................................................................3-3
3.7.2 Unauthorized Discharge...........................................................................................3-3
3.7.3 Cross-Connection.....................................................................................................3-3
List of Tables
Table 1-1: City Contacts............................................................................................................1-1
Table 2-1: Pipe Separation Requirements..............................................................................2-4
Table 2-2: Pipe Depth Requirements.......................................................................................2-5
Appendices
Appendix A - Definitions
Appendix B - Flow Chart
July 2009
List of Abbreviations
AWWA American Water Work Association
DPH Department of Public Health
July 2009
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 1 Introduction
Chapter 1 Introduction
The City of Hollister’s Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service is intended to:
• Assist new customers through the application, design and construction process in order to receive
a Recycled Water Use Permit
• Serve as a reference source for customers and their Site Supervisors regarding the proper
operation and maintenance of their recycled water system
In order to receive and use recycled water from the City, customers must follow the rules as set forth in
this document.
This document was written to be in compliance with the existing codes, laws, statues and regulations of
the State of California and local governing bodies concerning the currently-approved use of recycled
water. It is not intended to void any of these regulations. The manual is also not intended to void standard
industry practices as presented in the American Water Work Association (AWWA) California-Nevada
Section’s Guidelines for Distribution of Nonpotable Water or Guidelines for the On-site Retrofit of
Facilities using Disinfected Tertiary Recycled Water. However, since legal and regulatory requirements
can change without the knowledge of the City, the City assumes no liability for errors in this manual. If
any section, subsection, clause or phrase of the rules and regulations presented in this document is
determined to be invalid, the remaining portions of these rules and regulations shall remain in effect.
Amendments to this document may be made periodically to comply with State regulations or to meet new
City standards. If amendments are made, existing users will be notified of the new rules of service as
well as the effective date for compliance with the new rules.
Questions regarding the information presented herein should be directed to the City’s Recycled Water
Supervisor. The Recycled Water Supervisor oversees all programs and facilities related to the use of
recycled water distribution by the City and will coordinate with the appropriate City departments to
resolve customer inquiries. Table 1-1 provides contact information for the current Recycled Water
Supervisor as well as an emergency contact number.
Table 1-1: City Contacts
Contact Mailing Address Phone Fax
375 Fifth Street
Dennis Rose (831) 524-1880 (831) 636-4349
Hollister, CA 95023
2690 San Juan Hollister Road
Water Reclamation Facility (831) 636-4350 (831) 636-4351
Hollister, CA 95023
Emergency: 911
February
1-1
2008
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
Chapter 2 Obtaining a Recycled Water Use Permit
2.1 Approved Uses
Each recycled water customer must have a permit from the City prior to receiving recycled water. The
State of California regulates the use of recycled water, as directed under the California Code of
Regulations, Titles 17 and 22. Local authorities, at their discretion, can require or specify what sites
and/or uses of recycled water are to be utilized in their service area so long as it complies with State
requirements.
In the City of Hollister’s service area, recycled water may be used for the following applications, all of
which have been approved by the California Department of Public Health (DPH) under the City’s Master
Permit (Order No. R3-2008-0069):
• Irrigation
o Food crops, including all edible root crops, where the recycled water comes into contact
with the edible portion of the crop
o Parks and playgrounds
o School yards
o Unrestricted and restricted access golf courses
o Cemeteries
o Freeway landscaping
o Ornamental nursery stock and sod farms where access by the general public is not
restricted
o Pasture for animals producing milk for human consumption
o Non-edible vegetation with controlled access
o Orchards, vineyards, non-food bearing trees
• Landscape Impoundment
• Nonstructural Fire Fighting
• Other Uses
o Backfill consolidation around non-potable piping
o Soil compaction
o Mixing concrete
o Dust control on roads and streets
o Cleaning roads, sidewalks and outdoor work areas
o Flushing sanitary sewers
The City reserves the right to disallow a proposed use on the grounds of safety, public health, technical
feasibility or other concerns, for which the City's judgment shall be final. At its discretion, the City may
also set forth site specific requirements as conditions for the permitted use.
February 2008 2-1
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
2.2 Application
The first step in obtaining a Recycled Water Use Permit is to submit an Application for Recycled Water
Service.1 Copies of the application form are available from the City upon request. A completed
application form will include:
• Property Information: This should include a brief description of the property, including the type
of land uses within the proposed recycled water use area.
• Applicant: Applicants must either be the owner or an authorized representative of the property to
be served.
• Site Owner: If the site owner is the same as the applicant, this section can be left blank.
• Developer/Design Engineer Contact: If applicable, provide contact of person that can respond to
technical questions on the proposed recycled water uses and site development.
• User Supervisor: Each recycled water use site owner/operator will appoint a User Supervisor to
be the main point of contact with the City regarding recycled water use. The User Supervisors
will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the programs and procedures for the use of
recycled water, as outlined in the Recycled Water Use Permit and the Recycled Water Use
Manual and Rules of Service. The User Supervisor must be certified through the City’s training
program; if the User Supervisor has not received certification at the time of application, the
certification number can be left blank; however the User Supervisor must be certified in order for
the site to receive a Recycled Water Use Permit. In addition to the standard contact information,
an emergency phone number shall be provided for the User Supervisor. The User Supervisor
must be reachable at all times in case of an emergency.
• Proposed Recycled Water Use: Recycled water is approved for irrigation, landscape
impoundments, fire suppression and other uses listed in Section 2.1.
• Recycled Water Demand Estimates: The customer’s best estimate should be provided to assist the
City in evaluating the adequacy of the distribution system.
• Use Area Containment Measures: For irrigation projects this could include irrigating at
agronomic rates to avoid runoff, constructing slopes to maintain drainage on-site, and/or
installing containment beams. For landscape impoundments, water levels should be reduced
when heading into the wet season to prevent rain induced overflows.
• Employee or Public Access: Potential access by employees or the public should be described.
• Plans: The plans should show the proposed recycled water use areas and areas to be excluded;
recycled water infrastructure including the location and size of service connections, meters and
backflow devices; a brief description of all special construction requirements, if applicable; areas
of public access; surrounding land uses; construction details of wells in or near the use area; and
location and type of signage that will be used. The design information presented in Section 2.3
should be considered in development of the plans.
• Cross-Connection Control Procedures: Where both potable and recycled water lines exist, a
description of cross-connection control procedures shall be submitted.
• Additional Attachments: Other site specific information may be required depending on the
proposed recycled water use:
o Location of domestic water supply facilities in or adjacent to use area (for irrigation
projects)
1The Recycled Water Use Permit designates approval for recycled water service. Additional permits may be
necessary for the construction of the recycled water facilities. The customer is responsible for applying for and
obtaining other permits as may be necessary for the construction of the recycled water facilities.
February 2008 2-2
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
o Description of Site Drainage (for irrigation and landscape impoundment projects)
o List of outdoor drinking fountains, bleachers, and designated outdoor eating areas (for
irrigation projects)
• Signatures: The application shall be signed by the appointed User Supervisor as well as the
owner or an authorized representative of the property to be served.
Upon receipt of a completed application, the City will review the information submitted to determine
whether the proposed use conforms to the City’s Rules of Service and whether the City has the necessary
capacity to serve the applicant. If revisions to the proposed use are required or if additional information is
needed, the City will contact the applicant and request that the necessary corrections be made or that the
supplemental information be submitted. If the application meets the City’s standards, the City will then
forward a copy of the plans to DPH for review and approval. Following approval by DPH, the City shall
approve use of recycled water per the applicant’s plans.
2.3 Design Requirements
A summary of the basic design requirements for customers’ facilities is provided below:
• No Cross-Connections: No cross-connections are allowed between the recycled water system and
the potable water system.
• Backflow Prevention:
o Potable System: In order to protect the public drinking water system from accidental
cross-connections, a reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device is required at
all meters that supply potable water to a site where recycled water is present.
Additionally, for sites where the potable water is used as a back-up to the recycled water
system, there must be an air gap separation between the two systems.
o Non-Potable Wells: For agricultural wells that are connected to the customer’s recycled
water distribution system, a double check valve backflow prevention device is required
on the well.
o Recycled Water System: In most cases, backflow prevention devices will not be required
on the recycled water service. Backflow prevention would be required on the customer’s
recycled water system if the City determines that there is a condition on-site that would
threaten the integrity of the recycled water distribution system. Examples of potential
threats to the recycled water distribution system are chemical fertilizer injection systems
that are directly installed on the irrigation system and recycled water impoundments. In
these cases a reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device shall be upstream of
the potential threat.
• Pipe Separation: The customer’s recycled water system shall be installed to meet the following
separation requirements from all potable water pipelines.
o Horizontal Pipe Separation: All recycled water service laterals and meters should be at
least 10 feet from the nearest potable water facility, including pipelines, meters and
hydrants. If a ten-foot parallel spacing is not practical, a separation of at least 4 feet may
be allowed subject to the special construction conditions outlined in Table 2-1. Under no
circumstances is horizontal separation of less than four feet or construction in the same
trench as potable water facilities allowed.
o Vertical Pipe Separation: Where a buried constant-pressure recycled water pipeline
crosses a buried potable water pipeline, it should be a minimum of 4 inches below the
potable water pipeline and should meet the requirements of Table 2-1. Constant-pressure
recycled water pipelines are allowed over potable water pipelines with a minimum of 4
inches vertical separation and should meet the requirements of Table 2-1 or the recycled
February 2008 2-3
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
water pipeline is installed in a pipe sleeve which extends a minimum of 10 feet on either
side of the potable water piping. Intermittently pressurized irrigation laterals may be
located a minimum of 4 inches above potable water pipelines without sleeving.
Table 2-1: Pipe Separation Requirements
Horizontal Separation for Parallel Construction
Pipe Separation Construction Requirements
Greater than 10 feet No special construction required
separation
Between 4 to 10 feet Must meet one of the following requirements:
separation • Ductile iron pipe with compression joints
• Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
• HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
• Fused PVC
Less than 4 feet separation Not allowed
Vertical Separation at Crossings
Pipe Separation Construction Requirements
Less than 4 inches below Not allowed
Potable
The recycled water line shall have no joints with in 4 ft from
either side of the water main, shall have a standard pipe segment
centered over the pipe being crossed, and must also meet one of
4 to 12 inches below
the following requirements:
potable
• Ductile iron pipe with mechanical joints
• Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
• HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
• Fused PVC
12 inches or greater below
No special construction required
potable
Less than 4 inches above
Not allowed
potable
The recycled water line shall have no joints with in 10 ft from
either side of the water main, shall have a standard pipe segment
centered over the pipe being crossed, and must also meet one of
4 inches or greater above
the following requirements:
potable
• Ductile iron pipe (continuous section)
• Class 200 PVC – AWWA C900
• HDPE pipe with fusion welded joints
• Fused PVC
• Pipe Depth – The customer’s on-site recycled water piping must be designed to provide a
minimum of 12-36 inches of cover from top of the pipe to finished pavement. The minimum
cover depends on whether the pipes are under constant or intermittent pressure and the pipe size.
These minimum cover requirements are summarized in Table 2-2.
February 2008 2-4
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
Table 2-2: Pipe Depth Requirements
Pipe Type Minimum Cover (in)
Intermittent Pressure, All Sizes 12
Constant Pressure, 2.5” diameter and smaller 18
Constant Pressure, 3-10” diameter 24
Constant Pressure, 12” diameter and larger 36
• Pipe Identification:
o New piping: All new recycled water piping below or above grade shall be purple colored
pipe with the words “CAUTION — RECYCLED WATER” printed on the pipe or on
marking tape. Buried recycled water piping shall be laid so that the wording faces
upwards.
o Existing piping: All existing piping above grade must be labeled with purple
identification tape with the imprinted words “CAUTION — RECYCLED WATER,” or
replaced by purple colored pipe with the required wording. Additionally, where feasible
existing piping which is uncovered during construction should be marked with the words
“CAUTION — RECYCLED WATER.”
•
Recycled Water Warning Tags, Stickers, Labels: All recycled water appurtenances including
valve boxes, quick couplers, recycled water storage tanks, air/vacuum relief valves, pressure
reducing valves, pumps, backflow prevention devices and system controller boxes must be
labeled with purple, weatherproof warning tags, stickers or other labels. The tags, stickers or
labels must include the words “WARNING – RECYCLED WATER — DO NOT DRINK” or
similar wording and “AVISO — AGUA IMPURA — NO TOMAR.”
• Potable Water Identification Tags, Stickers, Labels: At sites where both recycled water and
potable water systems are used, all potable water meter and above grade water devices including
backflow prevention devices and hose bibs must be labeled with blue, weatherproof identification
tags, stickers or other labels. The tags, stickers or labels must include the words “POTABLE
WATER” and “AQUA PARA TOMAR.”
• Signage: Advisory signs must be posted within the recycled water use area in locations where
they can easily be seen. Lettering on the sign must be at least ½-inch tall and include the words
“RECYCLED WATER” and “DO NOT DRINK – NO BEBER.” At a minimum signs should be
posted at entrances to the site and around outdoor eating areas. Signs should be spaced no further
than 1,000 feet apart.
• Quick Coupling Valves: Quick coupling valves used on the recycled water system must be made
specifically for recycled water use. The covers on all quick coupling valves must be permanently
attached and made of purple rubber or vinyl with the words “RECYCLED WATER” imprinted
on the locking cover.
• No Hose Bibbs: Hose bibbs are not allowed on the recycled water system. For retrofit systems,
hose bibbs can be replaced by below grade quick coupling valves with locking caps.
• No Runoff: The recycled water system must be designed to prevent runoff outside the approved
use area.
• No Ponding: Except for permitted landscape impoundments, the recycled water system must be
configured and operated so that ponding does not occur.
• No Windblown Spray outside the Approved Use Area; Recycled water irrigation systems must be
configured such that windblown spray will remain within the approved use area.
February 2008 2-5
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
• Drinking Fountains, Outdoor Eating Areas, Bleachers: Drinking fountains, outdoor eating areas,
bleachers and similar facilities must be located in areas that will not be subject to spray from
sprinklers. The facilities may be protected by modifying the irrigation system, relocating the
protected facilities, or installing a shielding device.
• Protection of Aquifers: No irrigation with recycled water shall take place within a horizontal
distance of 50 feet of any domestic water supply well. All irrigation systems shall be designed
and located accordingly. In addition, all recycled water impoundments must be horizontally
separated by a distance of at least 100 feet from any domestic water supply well.
2.4 Construction
Provided that all permits for construction have been obtained and the City approves the plans submitted
with the Application for Recycled Water Service, construction of the recycled water systems may begin.
As part of the construction process for new facilities a temporary potable water connection will be
required to perform cross-connection and coverage testing. The customer must obtain approval from the
City prior to constructing a jumper (temporary connection) to an on-site potable system. A City inspector
must be on-site when a jumper to the potable water system is made and removed. Jumpers connecting to a
recycled water supply are prohibited at all times. If there are no potable water facilities in the vicinity of
the project, the City at its discretion may eliminate the need for cross-connection testing, and coverage
testing will be waived until recycled water is available to the site.
Because the City is responsible for inspecting the system during and after construction to ensure
compliance with the approved plans, the applicant must notify the City prior to the start of construction
and provide the City with updated construction schedules.
All conceptual or major changes from the approved plans must be approved by the City before
implementation.
2.5 Inspection
The City will maintain and update a Construction Inspection Checklist throughout the construction
process. The elements of the Construction Inspection Checklist are:
• Certified User Supervisor Designated: The City must verify that the designated User Supervisor
has been certified through the City’s annual training program.
• Utilities Horizontal and Vertical Separation Verified: Through the City’s on-site inspections
during the construction of the system, inspectors will be able to verify adherence to the pipe
separation requirements specified in Section 2.3.
• Advisory Signs, Tags and Labeling in Accordance with DPH Approved Plans: The City must
check that the location and type of signage and warning labels match the plans as approved by
DPH.
• Additional DPH Requirements Completed: The City is responsible for ensuring that additional
requirements resulting from DPH’s review have been incorporated.
• Cross-Connection Test Passed: The customer must conduct a cross-connection test to ensure that
the recycled water system is not connected to the potable water system. The test must be
performed by a certified AWWA cross-connection control specialist provided by the City. In
addition to coordinating with the City to complete the cross-connection test, the customer must
submit a map showing all potable connections that will be removed from the recycled water
system prior to connecting to the meter.
• Coverage Test Passed: The customer shall schedule a coverage test walk through to demonstrate
to the City that there is not excessive overspray, runoff or ponding and that no contact occurs
February 2008 2-6
Recycled Water Use Manual and Rules of Service Chapter 2 Obtaining a
Recycled Water Use Permit
between recycled water and drinking water fountains, outdoor eating areas or bleachers. If
adjustments to the system are required that can not be made during the site walk, the City will
issue a punch list and the customer must address each item on the list prior to rescheduling the
coverage test.
• Meter Installation: Following the final construction inspection and successful completion of the
cross-connection and coverage tests, the City will coordinate with the customer on installation of
the recycled water meter(s).
• On-site System Connected to Recycled Water: Prior to connecting to recycled water system the
City shall verify that all potable water connections, as identified on the customer’s map, have
been removed.
• Record Drawings Submitted: The customer is required to submit record drawings. The drawings
must include all changes from the original plans.
2.6 Permit
Once the City has verified that each item on the Inspection Checklist has been completed, a Recycled
Water Use Permit will be issued to the customer. Recycled water service is conditioned upon
requirements which may be attached to the permit and proper operation and maintenance of the system as
discussed in Chapter 3.
If the property is transferred to a new owner or tenant, the customer must notify the City in writing within
30 days to transfer the permit.
If the customer’s recycled water system is found to be in violation of the rules of service, the City will
direct the customer to mitigate for these violations. A site inspection will be scheduled after a reasonable
mitigation period to ensure compliance. Failure to comply will result in termination of recycled water
service until improvements are made.
February 2008 2-7
Chapter 3 Operating and Maintaining a Recycled Water System
3.1 User Supervisor Responsibilities
As part of the application and permitting process, each recycled water use customer will appoint a User
Supervisor to be the main point of contact with the City regarding recycled water use. The User
Supervisors will be responsible for ensuring compliance with City and State regulations for the use of
recycled water. The User Supervisor will be responsible for:
• Ensuring that all use site facilities that serve recycled water are maintained and operated in
accordance with the Recycled Water Use Permit and this manual.
• Operating and controlling the irrigation systems in a manner to prevent human consumption of
recycled water, to control and limit runoff, and to prevent contamination of nearby domestic
supply wells, as applicable.
• Ensuring that all personnel are educated in practices and procedures for working with recycled
water.
• Installing and maintaining signs around the use site.
• Preventing cross-connection between recycled water facilities and domestic water facilities.
• Notifying, preparing and submitting reports to the City when there are system failures that cause
unauthorized discharges.
• Notifying the City for its approval of any proposed modification or additions to facilities.
• Ensuring that recycled water for irrigation is used at agronomic rates and is not used during
rainfall events.
In the event that a customer wishes to make personnel changes to the User Supervisor position, the City
must be notified in writing, and the newly designated User Supervisor must attend the City’s training
program with 120 days of the personnel change.
3.2 Maintenance
In order to keep the recycled water system in compliance with the City’s rules and regulations, the User
Supervisor shall perform the following preventive maintenance activities:
• Perform no less than weekly inspections of the entire recycled water system including sprinkler
heads, drip irrigation system emitters, spray patterns, piping and valves, pumps, storage facilities
and controllers.
• Immediately repair all broken sprinkler heads, faulty spray patterns, leaking pipes or valves, or
any other noted condition that violates the recycled water use requirements.
• Check all recycled water identification signs, tags, stickers, and above grade pipe markings for
their proper placement and legibility. Replace damaged, unreadable, or missing signs, tags,
stickers, and pipe markings.
• Check spray patterns to eliminate ponding, runoff and wind blown spray conditions. If evidence
of ponding or runoff is noted, affected areas should be indicated on a sketch and sprinkler heads
should be adjusted to prevent further ponding or runoff. Evidence of mosquitoes breeding within
ponding should be noted and immediately eliminated.
• Establish and maintain an accurate record keeping system of all inspections, modifications and
repair work in a bound inspection logbook. A summary of the observations made during water
recycling area inspections and a brief discussion of any corrective actions taken or planned shall
be submitted to the City Recycled Water Supervisor at the end of the calendar year.
• Coordinate with the City to complete a cross-connection test annually.
• Coordinate with the City to complete annual testing of backflow assemblies.
3.3 Hours of Irrigation
Hours of irrigation with recycled water must be maintained to minimize potential public contact with
recycled water. The following guidelines should be followed:
• For areas that are easily accessed by the general public, irrigation must take place during the
periods of least use by the general public, generally between the hours of 9 pm and 7 am.
• For areas where public access is restricted or prohibited, such as highway medians, commercial
nurseries, etc., irrigation may occur at all times.
• Irrigation of areas accessed by the general public may be performed at other times provided that
the irrigation system is operated manually and is supervised (someone present at all times) to
avoid inadvertently exposing any members of the general public.
• Irrigators should take into account that irrigated areas might need a reasonable dry-out period
before the area is accessed by the general public.
3.4 System Modifications
The User Supervisor must obtain approval from the City before modifying an approved recycled water
system. This includes converting any piping used for recycled water back to potable water, such as
switching from a recycled water system to a backup potable water system.
Emergency modifications necessary to prevent contamination, damage or a public health hazard can be
made without the prior approval of the City. However, immediately after the modification has been
implemented and the hazard has been abated, the User Supervisor shall notify the City of the emergency
modifications and file a written report.
3.5 Personnel Training
The User Supervisor is responsible for training all personnel involved with recycled water so they are
familiar with the rules and regulations. At a minimum, the training program should convey the following
information:
• The City’s recycled water, although highly treated, is non-potable and must never be used for
human consumption.
• Regulations prohibit ponding, windblown spray and runoff of recycled water.
• Working with non-potable recycled water is safe if common sense is used and appropriate
regulations are followed.
• State law prohibits a connection between the recycled water and the potable water systems.
3.6 Annual Self Inspection Report
An annual self-inspection must be conducted at each use site while the recycled water system is in use.
The User Supervisor must conduct this inspection and provide a report of the inspection to the City using
the City’s Annual Self Inspection Report form. The original report must be submitted to the City with a
copy kept on-site by the User Supervisor.
The following questions must be answered as part of the annual inspection report:
• Is there evidence of recycled water runoff from the site? If yes, the User Supervisor must submit a
sketch showing the affected area(s) and estimated volume of runoff.
• Is there an odor due to recycled water at the site? If yes, the User Supervisor must provide a
description of the apparent source, characterization, direction of travel, and any public use areas
or off-site facilities affected by the odors.
• Is there evidence of recycled water ponding, and/or evidence of mosquitoes breeding due to
ponded water?
• Is there evidence of leaks or breaks in the system piping or tubing?
• Are advisory signs, tags and above-ground pipe markings in good condition and properly posted
to inform public that water is recycled?
• Is there evidence of plugged, broken or otherwise faulty drip irrigation system emitters or spray
irrigation sprinklers on the site?
• In the past year or since the last annual site inspection report, were there any modifications of the
piping or the recycled water system as approved by DPH? If yes, the User Supervisor must
submit a Facilities Modification Log.
• In the past year or since the last annual site inspection report, has the site owner, tenant or user
supervisor changed?
• What corrective actions are being taken to correct any problems noted in the report?
3.7 Emergency Procedures
3.7.1 Disaster Response
Following a major earthquake, flood, fire or other incident which could likely damage a customer’s
recycled or potable water systems, the User Supervisor should inspect the potable and recycled water
systems for damage as soon as it is safe to do so. If either system appears damaged, both the potable and
recycled water systems should be shut off at their points of connection. If the User Supervisor cannot
inspect the site and damage is expected, then both water systems should be shut off at their points of
connection. The Supervisor should immediately contact the City for further instruction.
3.7.2 Unauthorized Discharge
An unauthorized discharge is defined as any amount of recycled water that leaves the designated use site.
If a system failure results in an unauthorized discharge, every effort should be made to contain the
recycled water and prevent it from entering the storm drain system. The User Supervisor is responsible
for immediately notifying the City of the unauthorized discharge, and then preparing and submitting a
report estimating the volume of discharge, identifying the cause of the system failure and discussing the
corrective measures taken.
In the event that an unauthorized discharge occurs that may endanger public health or the environment,
the City will verbally notify the RWQCB and DPH within 24 hours.
3.7.3 Cross-Connection
If a cross-connection occurs or is suspected of having occurred on the customer’s premises, the User
Supervisor must immediately implement the following Emergency Cross-Connection Response Plan:
• Immediately following discovery of the cross-connection, shut down the recycled water supply to
the facility.
• Notify the City and DPH of the incident by telephone immediately. The City will notify the local
health department. Within 24 hours the customer’s verbal notifications must be followed by a
written notice to the City that includes an explanation of the nature of the cross-connection, date
and time discovered, steps taken to mitigate the cross-connection and the contact information of
the person reporting the cross-connection.
• Keep the potable system pressurized and post "Do Not Drink" signs at all potable water fixtures
and outlets.
• Provide bottled water for employees until the potable water system is deemed safe to drink.
• Coordinate with the Cit to collect water samples from the potable water system and perform a 24-
hour bacteriological analysis. If the bacteriological analysis is positive, chlorinate the potable
water system maintaining a chlorine residual of at least 50 mg/l for 24 hours, flush the potable
water system after the 24-hour chlorination period and perform standard bacteriological analysis.
The City shall assist with the sampling and laboratory analyses at the customer’s expense.
• Coordinate with the City to conduct a cross-connection test to verify that all cross-connections
were eliminated.
• Follow additional procedures outlined by the City, DPH and local health department.
After final approval has been obtained from DPH and the local health department, the City will bring the
recycled water system back into service and inform the customer to remove the "Do Not Drink" signs
from all potable water fixtures and outlets.
3.8.1 Quarterly Reporting
G. RECYCLED WATER USE AREA MONITORING
1. The quantity of reclaimed water distributed to each reuse site shall be recorded on a weekly basis.
Total flows shall be metered or estimated based on irrigation run times and distribution system design
flow rates. Total as applied flows shall be compared to Supplier effluent flow rates.
2. All nutrient (fertilizer) additions during the quarter are to be reported. At a minimum, the application
date, nutrient, application quantity, % content and any other appropriate information are to be
included.
3. During periods of recycled water application the Distributor or Users, as applicable, shall inspect the
irrigation use areas no less frequently than weekly to verify and document compliance with Order No
R3-2008-0069. The visual inspections shall be noted in a bound inspection logbook(s) and at a
minimum shall document proper sprinkler operation, runoff, erosion, saturated surface conditions,
and odors. The logbook(s) shall be made available to the City of Hollister, Water Board and DPH
upon request. A summary of observations made during water recycling area inspections and a brief
discussion of any corrective actions taken or planned shall be included with each annual monitoring
report.
4. Each individual User Reclaimed Water Site Supervisor shall provide quarterly updates to the
Distributor regarding irrigation frequency and flow rates, proposed system modifications, system
peculiarities, and to verify employee training. The Distributor shall keep a record of all system
modifications and document that all work is conducted in accordance with the Cross Connection
Control Plan and applicable regulations.
The Quarterly monitoring reports shall be submitted as follows:
Monitoring Period Report Due Date
January 1 – March 31 April 15th
April 1 – June 30 July 15th
July 1 – September 30 October 15th
October 1 – December 31 January 15th
Appendix A - Definitions
Whenever the following terms occur in this document, the intent and meaning shall be interpreted as
follows:
AIR GAP A physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a water
supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel. An approved
air gap must be at least twice the diameter of the water supply pipe
measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel, and in no case
less than one inch.
APPROVED USE An application of recycled water in a manner, and for a purpose,
designated in a Recycled Water Use Permit issued by the City and in
compliance with all applicable Regulatory Agency requirements.
APPROVED USE AREA A site with well-defined boundaries designated on the approved Site
Drawings, to receive recycled water for an approved use and
acknowledged by all applicable regulatory Agencies.
CROSS-CONNECTION Any physical connection between any part of a water system used or
intended to supply water for drinking purposes and any source or system
containing water or substance that is not or cannot be approved for human
consumption. This includes direct piping between the two systems,
regardless of the presence of valves, backflow prevention devices, or other
appurtenances.
CUSTOMER Any person, persons or firm including any public utility, municipality or
other public body or institution issued a Recycled Water Use Permit by the
City. They may be the owner, tenant, or property manager as appropriate.
INSPECTOR Any person authorized by the City, the local authorities or the local or state
health agencies to perform inspections on or off the customer's site before
construction, during construction, after construction and during operation.
LANDSCAPE A body of recycled water used for aesthetic enjoyment or which otherwise
IMPOUNDMENT serves a function not intended to include public contact.
NONPOTABLE WATER Water that has not been treated for human consumption in conformance
with the latest edition of the United States Public Health Service Drinking
Water Standards, the California Safe Drinking Water Act, or any other
applicable standards.
ON-SITE Designates or relates to all irrigation facilities downstream of the recycled
water meter.
OVERSPRAY The spray of recycled water outside of the approved irrigation area.
OWNER Any holder of legal title, contract purchaser, or lessee under a lease with an
unexpired term of more than one (1) year, for property for which recycled
water service has been requested or established.
POINT OF This is the point where the customer's system ties to the City’s system.
CONNECTION This is usually at the water meter.
PONDING Unauthorized retention of recycled water on the surface of the ground or
other natural or manmade surface for a period following the cessation of an
approved recycled water use activity.
POTABLE WATER Water that is authorized for human consumption according to the latest
edition of the California Safe-Drinking Water Act, or other applicable
standards.
PUBLIC Any person or persons other than the site owner or employees who may
come in contact with facilities and/or areas where recycled water is
approved for use.
RECYCLED WATER (or Water that meets California Administration Code Title 22,
NONPOTABLE Division 4 of the Environmental Health Water Reclamation
RECYCLED WATER) Criteria and is approved for purposes other than human consumption. For
the purpose of these rules and regulations, “recycled water” refers to
“Nonpotable recycled water.”
RECYCLED WATER A permit issued to the customer as required by DPH and the RWQCB that
USE PERMIT outlines monitoring, self-inspection, reporting, and site-specific
requirements.
RUNOFF Recycled water that is allowed to drain outside the approved use area.
SERVICE The furnishing of recycled water to a customer through a metered
connection to the onsite facilities.
STANDARD PIPE A section of pipe 18 to 20 feet in length that has no joints.
LENGTH
UNAUTHORIZED Any release of recycled water that violates the rules and regulations of City
DISCHARGE or applicable Federal, State or local statutes, regulations, ordinances,
contracts or other requirements.
USER SUPERVISOR The responsible person designated by the customer to provide liaison with
the City. This person must have the authority to carry out any requirements
of the City, must be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
recycled water system, and must prevent potential violations.
VIOLATION Noncompliance with any condition of the Recycled Water Use Permit by
any person, action or occurrence, intentional or unintentional.
Appendix B - Flow Chart
Customer develops
Customer submits an additional information or
Application for Recycled makes revisions as requested
Water Service
City reviews plans for City requests additional
Application does not
conformance with City’s meet requirements information or revisions
Rules of Service from customer
Application meets
requirements
DPH reviews and approves DPH requests additional
DPH does not
plans approve plans information or revisions
DPH approves
plans
City gives approval to
construct recycled water
system per approved plans
Customer secures all permits
necessary to begin
construction
Customer notifies City,
begins construction and
provides schedule updates
City inspects system during
and after construction,
including cross-connection
and coverage test
City installs recycled water
meter and customer’s system
Color Code
is connected
Customer
Customer submits record City
drawings
DPH
City issues a Recycled
Water Use Permit

===PLANNED CHANGES===

