The Wastewater System can treat a maximum of 3,700,000 gallons per day.
Approximately, 3,200,000 gpd has a low salt concentration and is treated to disinfected
tertiary6 treatment levels. Another 500,000 gpd has a high salt concentration and is
treated through a reverse osmosis system. The reverse osmosis permeate is treated to
disinfected tertiary treatment levels. The Wastewater System consists of the treatment
technologies and treatment capabilities shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Treatment Technology and Capacity
The new headworks is located upstream of the former
headworks and collects influent from the two existing trunk
lines. Headworks consists of an influent flow meter, a
submersible pump station (including backup), and two ¼”
step screens, in a two-channel system to allow for
redundancy. One screen is sized for 9 million gallons per
Headworks/Preliminary day (mgd) peak wet weather flow (PWWF) and the second
Treatment screen is sized for 12 mgd PWWF. Screened material is
washed and pressed for disposal. After the screens,
wastewater flows into a vortex aerated grit chamber with a
bypass channel and primary clarifier splitter box. The grit
removal structure is sized for 12 mgd and the four influent
pumps are sized for 2,100 gallons per minute (gpm) each.
Headworks capacity (gpd): 12 mgd
6 California Code of Regulations, Title 22 section 60301.230
https://govt.westlaw.com/calregs/Document/IEA4FA520D4B911DE8879F88E8B0DAAAE?viewType=FullText&origi
nationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
Laguna County Sanitation District - 3 - February 13, 2023
Wastewater System
Wastewater flows into the primary clarifier splitter box after
degritting. The primary clarifier splitter box splits high salt
flow and low salt flow. High salts flow goes to the high
TDS pond, while low salts flow normally goes to the
aeration basin/mixed liquor splitter box. Separation is
controlled by monitoring electrical conductivity (EC). The
high salts set point is approximately 2,600 microsiemens
per centimeter (μS/cm). High salts flow is typically 0.35
Influent Separation million gallons per day (mgd) and as high as 0.5 mgd. This
flow regularly occurs between 5:00 am and 10:00 am with
the low salts flow occurring the remainder of the time.
The low salts pond receives flow from the primary clarifier
splitter box, tertiary filtration reject, sludge beds return flow
and captured stormwater. Typical flows are 650 gpm
during the high salts diversion five-hour period.
Secondary treatment systems for low salts wastewater
consists of an aeration basin/mixed liquor splitter box,
three aeration basins, two secondary clarifiers, a return
activated sludge (RAS) and wasted activated sludge
(WAS) pump station, and two equalization ponds.
Undisinfected secondary recycled water may be diverted
by overflow from these ponds to Lower Storage Ponds.
Bypass of less than undisinfected secondary recycled
water from these ponds is pumped to the Low TDS Pond
where it is reintroduced to plant treatment at the aeration
basin/mixed liquor splitter box. The aeration basin/mixed
Low Salts Secondary
liquor splitter box equally distributes wastewater to the
Treatment
aeration basins. The aeration basins are sized for 3.2 mgd
and a solids retention time (SRT) of 12 days.
Each aeration basin has six zones and bypassing
capabilities with various settings for anaerobic, anoxic, or
oxic functions. Normal zone operation is anticipated to be
anoxic (can be anaerobic), anoxic, oxic (can be
anaerobic), anoxic (can be oxic), oxic and oxic. Various
combinations of zone functions exist when planning
maintenance, startup, and other operating conditions.
Low Salts Secondary treatment capacity (mgd): 3.2
Laguna County Sanitation District - 4 - February 13, 2023
Wastewater System
Biological and filtered treatment for high salt concentration
wastewater is performed by a membrane bioreactor
(MBR). When high salt concentrations are detected by an
electroconductivity meter in the primary clarifier splitter
box, wastewater is redirected as high salt flow to 1 mm
rotary drum screens with flows directed to a shotcrete-
lined high TDS pond. This flow is pumped over the course
of the next 24-hour period to a MBR for biological
High Salts Biological
treatment and ultrafiltration (UF). The MBR is housed in
and Filtered Treatment
two above ground steel process tanks. Each tank holds 4
cassettes with each cassette housing 16 membrane
modules. Membrane pore sizes range from 0.001 microns
to 0.05 microns with a nominal size of 0.035 microns and
absolute pore size of less than 0.1 microns. Membrane
useful life is approximately 5 years.
High Salts biological and filtration treatment capacity
(mgd): 0.5
Filtration of the low salt concentration wastewater stream
is performed by the UF membrane facility. The UF
membrane is used to separate or remove colloidal sized
contaminants and suspended solids but does not remove
Low Salts Filtration
dissolved solids such as salts. Membrane pore sizes range
Treatment
from 0.001 microns to 0.05 microns with a nominal size of
0.035 microns and absolute pore size of less than 0.1
microns.
Filtration treatment capacity (mgd): 3.2
The high salts treatment train flows from the MBR to a
reverse osmosis (RO) system for advanced treatment. The
RO pore size is on the order of 0.0008 microns and
employed to remove dissolved solids (salt) content from
the MBR effluent. The RO facility consists of three RO
military surplus refurbished mobile water treatment plants.
Three units are used in 2+1 fashion with daily rotation to
match the MBR effluent flow rates. Each of the three units
High Salts RO
houses a cartridge filter assembly and 40 spiral wound
Filtration Treatment –
medium pressure membranes contained in 8 pressure
Dissolved Salts
vessels in a 4:2:1:1 four stage array. MBR effluent is
Reduction
dosed with ammonia to convert free chlorine to
chloramines to prevent damage to the RO membranes.
Sulfuric acid and antiscalant is also dosed to prevent
calcium carbonate and sulfate formation on the RO
membrane surface. RO permeate merges with the low
salts UF membrane filtration permeate prior to disinfection.
High Salts RO filtration treatment capacity, including up to
20% brine concentrate (mgd): 0.5
Laguna County Sanitation District - 5 - February 13, 2023
Wastewater System
The UV disinfection system disinfects the comingled flows
from the background UF permeate (low TDS treatment
train) and the RO permeate (high TDS treatment train).
Check valves upstream of the UV units and on both inflow
lines prevent backflow in the system and the new
upstream UV break tank provides steady state flow rates
that improves UV system performance. The UV
disinfection system in use is manufactured by Aquionics
and consists of 4 inline Model 7500 medium pressure lamp
UV Disinfection chambers (a.k.a. banks). Each chamber houses 12 lamps.
Standard operation is based on three in use with the one
in standby. With all four units in operation at power level 3,
the system can disinfect up to 4.7 mgd. Revalidation of UV
lamps performed after startup of new treatment train may
change these settings.
Turbidity is monitored in the feed water, UV transmittance
is monitored from the through-flow, and flow rate is
monitored at the effluent.
Disinfection Capacity (mgd): 4.7
RO Brine waste is disposed via an EPA Underground
Injection Control class 1 non-hazardous well. Class I Non-
RO Brine Disposal
Hazardous Permit No. R9UIC-CA1-FY20-3R
Method
Brine Disposal capacity (gpd): Injection rate is permitted to
not exceed 6,480,000 gallons per month or 216,000 gpd.
Solids from the two secondary clarifiers are sent to
concrete lined beds for drying and hauled off annually to
the Engel & Gray composting facility.
Biosolids/Sludge
Production and
The destination of biosolids produced is Engel & Gray
Handling
located at 745 Betteravia Road, Santa Maria, California
Annual production of biosolids: Approximately 306 dry tons
of municipal class B biosolids
Non-Potable Recycled
Water Non-potable Recycled Water Produced Onsite:
Disinfected tertiary recycled water and undisinfected
secondary recycled water.
Laguna County Sanitation District - 6 - February 13, 2023
Wastewater System
Recycled Water Use Areas:
Non-Potable Recycled Disinfected tertiary recycled water is held in short term
Water storage (currently two one-million-gallon (mg)
aboveground steel welded tanks) at the plant and
distributed to offsite users. Recycled water not used on
demand goes from the 1 mg holding tanks to the upper
reservoir and irrigation of Laguna County Sanitation
District pastureland. Current offsite reuse locations are:
1. Santa Maria Public Airport District – up to 200 million
gallons per year on 510 acres of agriculture and
landscaping.
2. Santa Maria Energy, LLC up to 163 million gallons per
year for oil exploration and 285 acres of beef cattle
pasture.
3. Northern Branch Jail up to 3.94 million gallons per
year for landscape irrigation and laundry purposes.
4. Waller Park up to 101 million gallons per year for 65
acres of irrigated turf.
5. Laguna County Sanitation District pastureland. Up to
151 million gallons per year on 373 irrigable acres of
pasture for beef cattle grazing.
6. Contractor historical use is up to 8 million gallons per
year for dust control, grading operations, and soil
compaction.
Undisinfected Secondary Recycled Water:
Per existing Division of Drinking Water requirements, if
turbidity goes above 0.2 Nephelometric Turbidity Units
(NTU), or if transmittance goes below 65%7, or if dose
goes below 200 millijoules per square centimeter
squared (mJ/cm2), then actuated valves located on the
pipeline between the UV system and the recycled water
holding tanks automatically divert highly treated but not
fully disinfected effluent by gravity to lower storage
ponds with a capacity of 80 million gallons. This effluent
meets or exceeds the requirements for undisinfected
secondary recycled water and is used for the irrigation
of beef cattle pasture per CCR §60304(d)(4).
7 Transmittance and power dose parameters are based on State Water Resources Control Board Division
of Drinking Water approved UV validation parameters per letter dated October 18, 2005. These
parameters may change after the revalidation of the UV disinfection system.
Laguna County Sanitation District - 7 - February 13, 2023
Wastewater System
Enrolled in WQ 2016-
Yes
Non-Potable Recycled 0068-DDW:
Water Disinfected Tertiary
Recycled water
3.6*
capacity production
volume (mgd):
* The UV lamps validation was limited to 3.6 mgd at the time of test, however Laguna County Sanitation
District may request that the Central Coast Water Board increase this to 3.7 mgd once the UV lamps are
revalidated. Since other processes limit disinfected tertiary recycled water to 3.7 mgd, this will not be
increased beyond 3.7 once the lamps are revalidated.
Chemical additives are used to maintain the functions of filters, to adjust pH, and to
ensure clean tanks and piping. They are not a requirement of this permit for treatment
or disinfection of wastewater. Laguna County Sanitation District reported the following
chemical additives to the treatment system and the reason for their use.
• Sodium Hypochlorite 12.5% - 3,200 gallons per month. Required for UF and
MBR membrane cleaning.
• Sodium Hypochlorite 12.5% – 930 gallons per month. Applied to keep recycled
water piping and tanks clean.
• Citric Acid 50% - 1,000 gallons per month. Required for UF and MBR membrane
cleaning.
• Sulfuric Acid 93% - 600 gallons per month. Required for pH control of RO feed
water.
• Aqua Ammonia 29.4% - 150 gallons per month. Required to convert free chlorine
to chloramines in RO feed water.
• Antiscalant – 300 gallons per month. Required to maintain RO elements.
A summary of historic and recent average effluent concentrations is included in Table 3,
which were reported in Laguna County Sanitation District quarterly monitoring reports.
The data includes modeled effluent quality as presented in Design Memorandum No. 1
dated May 2016 by Carollo Engineers. The Central Coast Water Board used reported
and modeled

===PLANNED CHANGES===

