[Page 4]
All regulatory documents, submissions, materials, data, monitoring reports, and
correspondence should be converted to a searchable Portable Document Format (PDF)
and submitted electronically via the State Water Resources Control Board’s GeoTracker
database. GeoTracker is an Internet-accessible database system used by the State
Water Board, regional boards, and local agencies to track and archive compliance data
from authorized or unauthorized discharges of waste to land, or unauthorized releases of
hazardous substances from underground storage tanks. This system consists of a
relational database, online compliance reporting features, a geographical information
system (GIS) interface, and other features that are utilized by regulatory agencies,
regulated industries, and the public to input, manage, or access compliance and
regulatory tracking data. Guidance for creating an account and submitting reports to the
GeoTracker database is provided in the attached MRP.
Any

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgrades to the treatment system.
According to the RWD, the Discharger replaced the current open-air concrete
[Page 18]
USDI, National Park Service 3 3 November 2025
Sequoia Kings Canyon National Parks
Ash Mountain WWTF
Staff Memorandum
headworks with new concrete inline influent measurement components, and a covered
structure will be constructed over the headworks to shield the apparatus from wet
weather. Effluent from the headworks will be discharged into an existing aeration basin
that has been repurposed to function as an equalization tank. The equalization tank will
have a depth of 12 feet and a usable capacity of 19,300 gallons. The existing lined
ponds will be filled in to provide pads to build, service, and operate the new treatment
system and storage tank. Effluent from the equalization tank will be discharged to a
secondary biological treatment system consisting of a pre-anoxic tank followed by a
recirculating textile filter (RTF) system featuring two Orenco AX-MAX treatment tanks
operating in parallel. After secondary treatment, effluent will flow through a new
ultraviolet disinfection (UV) system housed in a new generator/control building. The UV
disinfection system is replacing the existing chlorination treatment.
The April 2022 RWD initially proposed to install a 100,000-gallon storage tank to
replace the open-air ponds; however, Central Valley Water Board staff (Staff) reviewed
the water balance included in the report and had concerns with the Facility’s ability to
store effluent during wet-weather events. As a result, the basis of design document
submitted by HECO Engineers proposed to increase the size of the storage tank to
350,000 gallons to store treated effluent during wet weather events.
Two concrete va