[Page 23]
Yosemite National Park -2- 22 November 2021
White Wolf WWTF
Staff Memorandum
technical report, signed and stamped by Mr. Jonathan Pederson, a California-registered
civil engineer (RCE 71724) with DJ&A, P.C. The March 2021 RWD proposes upgrades
to the WWTF. According to the representative from the National Park Service, the
proposed WWTF upgrades are scheduled to be completed this summer (2021) and,
therefore, the White Wolf area would not be opened to the public this year (2021).
This memorandum provides a summary of Central Valley Water Board staff’s review of
the RWD and subsequent materials and the applicability of this discharge to be covered
under the General Order.
DESCRIPTION OF DISCHARGE
The WWTF is located at the White Wolf Lodge and Campground in Yosemite National
Park (Section 10, Township 1 South, Range 21 East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian)
on Assessor’s Parcel Numbers 69-120-001 and 69-120-005. Attachment A of this NOA
includes a Site Location Map. Attachment B includes a Site Plan Map. Attachment C
includes a Monitoring Well/Piezometer Site Map. The WWTF receives wastewater
generated from White Wolf Lodge, White Wolf Campground, and the NPS employee
housing. The White Wolf Campground has 74 sites, each accommodating up to six
people, with no RV hookups or dump station. White Wolf Lodge is a concessionaire‐
operated facility providing overnight accommodations and dining with overnight guest
capacity of 112 and accommodations for up to 19 staff. NPS employee housing at
White Wolf can accommodate 22 people and includes water hook-ups for three
recreational vehicles (RVs) (but no facilities available to dispose of RV waste).
The White Wolf facilities were constructed primarily in the 1970s. The existing
wastewater treatment system includes the collection system, a 1.7-acre stabilization
pond, chlorine disinfection, and discharge to a 2.5-acre spray field. The WWTF operates
during the summer months. The proposed system will replace the existing wastewater
system. The WWTF will consist of a gravity‐feed 5,000‐gallon septic tank followed by a
dual compartment tank with a 3,000‐gallon septic compartment and a 1,000‐gallon
dosing compartment (total 4,000 gallons). The 4,000-gallon dual compartment tank will
include a filter between the septic compartment and the dosing compartment, capable
of removing solids greater than 1/8th inches in diameter. The WWTF will include another
5,000-gallon overflow tank connected to the 3,000-gallon septic compartment for
emergency storage (e.g., in case of a power failure or if the filter between the septic
compartment and the dosing compartment clogs).
From the dosing compartment of the dual compartment tank, settled and filtered effluent
will be pumped uphill through approximately 700 feet of force main to a new
7,000-square foot leach field. The proposed leach field will be a mound system located
in a currently forested area between White Wolf Lodge and the employee housing area.
An equivalent area for a back-up leach field is also provided. The RWD states the
proposed leach field site is 300 feet from the nearest seasonal stream and 1,000 feet
from the water production well.
[Page 24]
Yosemite National Park -3- 22 November 2021
White Wolf WWTF
Staff Memorandum
The new proposed system will be winterized at the end of each season. Each year the
Discharger will start the system up once groundwater is at least 2.5 feet below the
bottom of the leach field. Based on recent data from onsite piezometers, groundwater
depth was deeper than 2.5 feet by the end of May/early June.
The RWD determined average wastewater flows for 2008 to 2019 by applying a ratio to
the average daily water production for each year, as shown in Table 1 below. In 2013,
wastewater effluent flows were measured along with the potable water supply well.
Based on the 2013 data, a 0

[Page 25]
According to the RWD, Tuolumne County’s Local Agency Management Plan (LAMP)
guidelines for mound systems was used to design the mound system. The RWD
states since silty sand will be used for the sand mound system, an application rate of
1.0 gallons per square foot per day was used to determine the required area of the
leach field. With this application rate and a design flow of 7,000 gpd, the leach field
absorption area was determined to be 7,000 square feet. A replacement area of
equivalent size has been identified adjacent to and south of the proposed leach field.
The mound will be divided into six zones and contain 504 linear feet of transport
pipe, 126 linear feet of manifold, and 2,400 linear feet of lateral piping. Each leach
field zone will consist of eight 50-foot laterals spaced at the minimum of 36 inches
on-center. As a result, each zone will be comprised of 400 total linear feet of lateral
piping with the entire leach field containing 2,400 linear feet of lateral piping.
The Discharger proposes groundwater monitoring wells as shown in Attachment C with
the MW-1 as the up-gradient well and MW-2 and MW-3 as the down-gradient wells. The
nearest up-gradient monitoring well will be used to measure the elevation difference
between the lowest point of the underside of the mound and the groundwater.
The location of White Wo

[Page 25]
Potassium (mg/L) ND
The RWD included data from several site-specific soil profiles that provided details on
the proposed leach field area. The area selected for the leach field generally consists of
a few inches of sandy loam covering a couple feet of loamy sand and then two to six
[Page 26]
Yosemite National Park -5- 22 November 2021
White Wolf WWTF
Staff Memorandum
feet of sand on top of granite bedrock. The percolation rate of the native sand was
estimated at 6 minutes per inch or less.
NITROGEN LIMIT EVALUATION
The General Order requires that wastewater systems with a flow rate greater t

===PLANNED CHANGES===

