[Page 16]
5. Wastewater treatment technologies evolve over time. Septic tanks and gravity fed
leach fields provide the lowest level of acceptable treatment. Other treatment may
include aerobic treatment systems, sand/media filters, package treatment plants,
constructed wetlands, activated sludge, membrane biological reactors, and disinfection
systems. Similarly, other dispersal options for the treated effluent may include
pressure dosing, drip irrigation, land application, mound/at grade systems, or
September 23, 2014
[Page 17]
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD -3 -
ORDER WO 2014-0153-DWQ
GENERAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
FOR SMALL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
Typical Septic Septic Secondary Equivalent to
Constituent Unitsa Domestic Tank Tank Treatment Secondary
Wastewater Influent Effluent Effluent Treatment Effluent
Nitrite and Nitrate mg/L <1 <1 __g ,o __g .n -- g,h,i
b C
(as N)
Total Phosphorus mg/L 6-12 6-12 5-15 ° 51% m 50% k, h , 1
b C
(as P)
a. mg/L denotes milligrams per liter.
b. Data from Table 4-3, USEPA Wastewater Treatment/Disposal for Small Communities, Manua

[Page 17]
9. Discharges from RV holding tanks or portable toilets may contain chemicals that can
pollute groundwater quality. Some commercially available products used to control
holding tank/portable toilet odors may contain harmful chemicals such as
formaldehyde, zinc, or phenol. The harmful chemicals can kill the bacteria in the
wastewater treatment system and cause wastewater to be inadequately treated.
Inadequately treated wastewater may cause additional problems such as leachfield/
seepage pit failure, surfacing wastewater, and potential exposure and health risks.
Discharge of the harmful chemicals to groundwater that creates pollution may result in
enforcement activities requiring groundwater remediation. The best and least
expensive method to prevent groundwater pollution is to not use harmful chemicals by
educating RV owners about the pollution hazard.
10. Total dissolved solids (TDS) consists of both volatile (organic) and fixed (inorganic)
fractions. A varying concentration of volatile dissolved solids will exist in wastewater
effluent depending upon the wastewater source and treatment technology. In a
properly operated land application system, volatile dissolved solids in percolate are
generally reduced to negligible concentrations (less than 2 mg/L) by filtration and
1
biological degr

[Page 18]
18. Wastewater dispersal will occur by different methods. It may be percolated from
ponds; applied to the surface by spray, flood, or drip methods; or discharged to a
subsurface dispersal area such as a leachfield or seepage pit. The choice of disposal
method will depend upon the amount of wastewater generated, the value of the
wastewater for irrigation, and the receiving environment.
a. Wastewater discharged to a pond for treatment and/or storage can result in
groundwater degradation or nuisance odors. Ponds can also be vulnerable to
damage caused by burrowing animals.
3 For this order, Constituents of Emerging Concern are defined to be chemicals in personal care products,
pharmaceuticals including antibiotics, antimicrobials; industrial, agricultural, and household chemicals;
hormones; food additives; transformation products, inorganic constituents; and nanomaterials.
4 The Science Advisory Panel w

===PLANNED CHANGES===

