will be a scalping plant with no solids treated onsite,
and sludge processing occurring offsite at downstream City of San Diego facilities. The
projected average wastewater flow from the entire Civita Development at buildout is
1.684 mgd of raw sewage treated to secondary effluent standards. The Facility will be
designed to produce a daily maximum of 0.33 mgd and a daily average of 0.26 mgd of
disinfected tertiary recycled water. The disinfected tertiary recycled water will be
produced from secondary treated effluent which will be approximately 15% of the Civita
build out wastewater flow. The treatment processes will include influent diversion and
pumping, screening, an aeration tank, a membrane bioreactor process, and a chlorine
disinfection system. The headworks will be designed to divert and pump flow to the start
of the treatment process. A drum screen will be installed to provide primary treatment
and protection of downstream processes. The membrane bioreactor process combines
activated sludge (secondary treatment) with membrane filtration (tertiary treatment),
with the membrane units installed within the activated sludge reactor membrane tank.
Within the activated sludge reactor membrane tank clean water will be separated from
sludge and extracted through flat plate membranes. Disinfection will be accomplished
utilizing a chlorine disinfection system consisting of two dosing pumps installed on a
chemical feed skid which will provide each pump with a calibration column, pressure
relief valve, and a pulsing damper. A 480,000-gallon storage tank will serve as effluent
storage, a forebay for the effluent pumps, and provide for in-plant water needs.
B. Recycled Water Use.
Recycled water produced at the Facility will be used onsite for landscape irrigation on
the Civita Development Project.
The Facility will be designed to produce disinfected tertiary recycled water in
accordance with the requirements of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (title
22). The effluent use and disposal system will have a pump station and storage for use
before the ultimate disposal of recycled water from the Facility to either onsite
landscape irrigation or the existing offsite public sewer system and City of San Diego
Point Loma Wastewater Treatment plant. Due to seasonal variations in demand, the
Facility will dispose of excess recycled water to the existing City of San Diego sewer
system during wet months and will need to be supplemented with potable water to meet
peak demands during dry months. The Facility will provide an average of 260,000
gallons per day of recycled water to the Civita Development. In addition to offsetting the
required water demands of the Development, the Facility could potentially be expanded
to provide a new recycled water supply to the City of San Diego to serve potential
recycled water customers in the Civita service area (Attachment A) who are not in the
Civita Development Home Owners Association. A future public elementary school has
been identified as a potential recycled water user in the Civita service area. The Facility
could provide the City of San Diego with a recycled water source much closer to future
users in the Civita service area since presently the nearest potential recycled water
source in the City of San Diego is the North City Water Reclamation Plant, more than
seven miles away.
C-3
Attachment C August 12, 2020
Information Sheet
C. Disposal.
The Facility intends to dispose of excess recycled water that does not meet regulatory
requirements for use as onsite landscape irrigation to the existing City of San Diego
Sewer system. The discharge of excess recycled water from the Facility will occur
through the Point Loma Ocean Outfall via the E. W. Blom Point Loma Wastewater
Treatment Plant pursuant to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit
No. CA 0107409, Order No. R9-2017-0007, or reissued permit.
III.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

