[Page 95]
2019.
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The City of San Luis Obispo Resource Recovery Facility is a municipal wastewater
collection, treatment, and disposal facility that discharges tertiary treated
wastewater to San Luis Obispo Creek. First constructed in 1920 and located at the
southwest corner of the City of San Luis Obispo and adjacent to San Luis Obispo
Creek, the Facility provides sewerage service to approximately 47,328 municipal
and industrial users from the City of San Luis Obispo, California Polytechnic State
University, San Luis Obispo, and the San Luis Obispo County Regional Airport. The
City also administers an approved pretreatment program that includes seven
significant industrial users, as defined in federal regulations. The Discharger
currently operates a collection system that is composed of over 148 miles of main
line and 9 lift stations. The design flow capacity of the Facility is 5.4 MGD. During
storm events, the estimated wet weather influent flow to the facility is 11.1 MGD
due to inflow and infiltration into the collection system from aging or broken/cracked
pipes. Ongoing capital improvement projects for sewer line replacement, flow
metering, and main line repairs will continue to address areas of concern that result
in inflow and infiltration into the Facility.
The Discharger has been implementing a significant upgrade of the Facility’s
biological, disinfection, and biosolids units since 2019. A focus of the facility
upgrade was to improve removal of chorine disinfection byproducts
(trihalomethanes, or THMs) and nitrate to meet effluent limits of the previous
permit. Another focus of the upgrade was to increase the facility’s ability to treat
high inflows from wet-weather events. Prior to the most recent upgrades, the
facility’s treatment process consisted of an equalization basin, mechanical
screening, grit removal, primary settling, biofiltration, secondary settling, nitrification
with two activated sludge aeration basins, final settling, cooling using evaporative
cooling towers, dual media filtration, and chlorination/dechlorination.
During the upgrade, the discharger removed or abandoned the following
components of the facility: bio filter and secondary clarifier, final clarifiers, tertiary
dual media filtration, and chlorine disinfection and dechlorination. The two activated
sludge basins were converted to Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE) bioreactors for
nutrient removal, the dissolved air floatation thickener (DAFT) was modified into a
sludge blend tank, and a digester was modified into an odor control unit. The final
upgraded treatment system currently consists of mechanical screening with washer
compactor, aerated grit removal, primary settling, four MLE bioreactors, hollowfiber
membranes, and UV disinfection. Although chlorination and dechlorination of the
effluent and recycled water has been terminated due to the use of UV disinfection,
the recycled water sent to the storage tank will be dosed with chlorine to maintain a
chlorine residual in the recycled water distribution line per best practices of the
distribution system. The Discharger may use sodium hypochlorite (chlorine) for
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 96]
CITY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO ORDER R3-2024-0001
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES CA0049244
maintenance purposes such as membrane cleaning in the MLE unit when hydrogen
peroxide and/or citric acid is insufficient. If chlorine is used for membrane cleaning,
dechlorination of the effluent with sodium bisulfite may be necessary remove the
chlorine residual to protect beneficial uses of San Luis Obispo Creek.
Biosolids were previously handled with a dissolved air floatation thickener (DAFT),
three anaerobic digesters, a screw press, a belt filter press, and drying beds, with
the final product shipped out for composting. The upgraded biosolids handling train
now consists of a sludge blend tank, two rotary screw thickeners, two anaerobic
digesters, a digested sludge storage tank, an odor control unit, a screw press, and
a belt filter press, with the final product hauled for composting.
There are two lined evaporation ponds located at southwest corner of the Facility
property. The Discharger has occasionally diverted wastewater to these ponds
when it did not meet effluent limitations, rather than discharging the wastewater to
the creek. This Order requires the Discharger to submit a written notification to the
Central Coast Water Board when wastewater is sent to these ponds. This Order
does not provide regulatory coverage for the discharge of wastewater from these
ponds to land or surface water.
In recent years with large, prolonged storm events, these ponds have filled with
stormwater from overland flow (not from the facility). This Order does not provide
coverage of stormwater discharge from these ponds. As discussed further in
section 3.5.1 of this Fact Sheet, the Discharger is enrolled in the Industrial General
Permit (State Water Board Order 2014-0057-DWQ, NPDES General Permit
CAS000001). The Discharger may incorporate these ponds into their Industrial
General Permit enrollment to allow for the discharge of stormwater from the ponds,
in compliance with all the requirements of the Industrial General Permit.
2.2. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Tertiary treated wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point EFF-001 to San
Luis Obispo Creek, a water of the United States, at latitude 35.244307° N and
longitude 120.680618° W. Sampling location EFF-001A is located prior to
discharge into the effluent pipeline that discharges

===PLANNED CHANGES===

