[Page 92]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection and treatment facility,
which provides service to the City of El Paso de Robles. The Facility currently
serves a population of approximately 32,000 people.
The Facility receives domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater.
The Discharger commissioned an upgraded wastewater treatment process in April
2015. Construction of the $47.2 million, phased upgrade project was substantially
completed in April 2016. The upgraded process is designed to remove ammonia
and comply with a total nitrogen effluent limit of 10 milligrams per liter (as nitrogen).
The upgraded process utilized chloramination as the primary process for
disinfection. As a follow-up to the upgrade project, the Discharger constructed new
tertiary treatment facilities, which became operational in May 2019. The tertiary
treatment facilities include flow equalization, cloth media filtration, ultraviolet light
(UV) disinfection, and a recycled water pump station with an 800,000-gallon
storage reservoir. These facilities produce “tertiary 2.2 quality” recycled water, as
defined in California’s Title 22 recycled water regulations. Although the Discharger
intends for filtration and UV disinfection to be the primary process for disinfection,
the Facility retains the ability to use chloramination for disinfection in the event of
failure of the tertiary treatment facilities. The treatment process includes:
• Preliminary treatment with screening, a vortex grit removal basin, and a
septage receiving station;
• Two primary clarifiers;
• Three biological nutrient removal (BNR) basins. Each basin consists of one
anaerobic cell, two anoxic cells, two oxic zones, a deoxygenation zone, and
mixed liquor return pumps and piping. The BNR basins are fed air from three
blowers;
• Three circular secondary clarifiers with a return activated sludge pump station;
• Disinfection by flash mixing of sodium hypochlorite and ammonium sulfate
(chloramination), with contact time in a serpentine basin and dechlorination with
sodium bisulfite, or cloth media filtration and UV light; and
• Effluent polishing channel.
Waste sludge is thickened by a dissolved air flotation thickener, digested in
anaerobic digesters, and dewatered by a belt filter press. Thickened and
dewatered sludge (biosolids) is stockpiled in both a concrete-lined drying bed and
several self-contained earthen beds prior to disposal/reuse at the City of El Paso
de Robles’ landfill. Biogas generated by the anaerobic digesters is treated and
used to generate electrical power and heat for the Facility. When biogas cannot be
used beneficially to generate electrical power and heat, the facility has a newly
upgraded flare to burn off the biogas, thus preventing a potentially dangerous
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 93]
CITY OF EL PASO DE ROBLES ORDER NO. R3-2021-0001
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0047953
condition of over-pressurizing the anaerobic digesters. The San Luis Obispo
County Air Pollution Control District permits and monitors the flare.
Prior to the 2016 and 2019 upgrades, all six of the ponds at the facility were used
for “polishing” of the trickling filter effluent prior to disposal. The 2016 upgrade
converted Pond 3 to an effluent polishing channel. The 2019 upgrade converted
Ponds 1 and 2 to a recycled water storage pond and a stormwater retention
pond. Ponds 4, 5, and 6 are now normally empty and are used for 1) overflow from
the facility in extreme emergency situations (e.g., prolonged loss of grid power and
loss of standby power system), 2) an alternative to the effluent polishing channel
for disposal of treated wastewater, and 3) retention of stormwater runoff from the
northern part of the plant site.
The upgraded treatment plant has the same monthly average dry weather effluent
flow capacity of 4.9 MGD as the previous treatment process. The upgraded
treatment plant has increased wet weather capacity to treat a peak hour wet
weather flow of 12.7 MGD, and previously was designed to treat a peak daily wet
weather effluent flow of 10 MGD. Average annual and maximum daily flow rates for
2017 through 2019 were 2.46 MGD and 3.16 MGD, respectively.
The Facility is designed to remove nitrogen and phosphorus from the wastewater
stream. These nutrients

===PLANNED CHANGES===

