[Page 69]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) and provides service to a population of approximately 144 individuals
residing at the Mobile Home Park located in the town of El Centro. The permitted
maximum daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant which is 0.02 MGD. The Facility receives domestic wastewater; with no
industrial or commercial discharges to the Facility. The Facility is located in the SW ¼
of Section 34, T15S, R13E, SBB&M18. The discharge from the Facility consists of
disinfected secondary treated wastewater.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The treatment system consists of two activated sludge treatment plants operated in
parallel. One of the package plants has a design capacity of 0.005 MGD (Unit 1) and
the other plant has a design capacity of 0.015 MGD (Unit 2). Sewage is conveyed
from the Facility by gravity through bar screens to a wet well with two openings
located adjacent to the package plants. Sewage is pumped up to the package plants
using two submersible sewage pumps. From the wet wells, two pumps convey
wastewater through a rotary drum screen, then to an aeration basin. Following
transfer to the aeration basin, wastewater is then pumped to a clarifier for settling.
Return activated sludge is pumped from the clarifier to the aeration basin. Waste
activated sludge is pumped to the activated sludge unit (Unit 1). Clarifier effluent
(i.e., overflow) is then directed through two sand filters in parallel, and then through
an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection system prior to being directed through a final effluent
channel and weir box.
The current configuration of the treatment plant employs one of the package plants
(Unit 1) as a solids digester unit as a means to reduce the amount of sludge
generated at the treatment plant. Digested sludge from the solids digester (Unit 1) is
18San Bernardino Base & Meridian
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 70]
DATE GARDENS ASSET PARTNERS, L.P. ORDER R7-2023-0046
DATE GARDENS MOBILE HOME PARK WWTP NPDES NO. CA0104841
pumped to one of two (2) drying beds located next to the package plant. Dried
sludge is then removed from the beds and disposed of at a landfill. Further, solids
removed during preliminary treatment (i.e., screening and grit removal) are dried and
removed daily for pick-up by the trash removal service, which hauls solid waste off-
site.
Wastewater is discharged from Discharge Point 001 to Rice Drain No. 3, a water of
the United States, and tributary to New River. Rice Drain No. 3 flows for a distance
of approximately seven miles before entering New River at a point approximately 30
miles from the Salton Sea.
2.B. Discharge

===PLANNED CHANGES===

