Community Services District (PECSD). PECSD owns and operates two wastewater
treatment facilities (WWTP #6 and #7) each with its own backup leachfield. PECSD
leases property owned by Plumas Pines Golf Resort and Three Trees Holding II LLC
where WWTP #6 and #7 wastewater’s primary disposal is to a community leachfield
named Dynamite Hill. PECSD and Three Trees Holding II LLC are hereafter jointly
referred to as “Discharger”.
PECSD’s District office is located inside the Fire Department building at 200 Lundy
Lane, Blairsden, Plumas County. The wastewater treatment facilities and disposal
systems are located on both sides of Poplar Valley Road, Blairsden, Plumas County
(see Location Map, Attachment A). Based on the site inspection and a case file review,
the Discharger treats and disposes equal to or less than 100,000 gallons of wastewater
per day and is therefore eligible for coverage under the general and specific conditions
of State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Water Quality Order
2014-0153-DWQ General Waste Discharge Requirements for Small Domestic
Wastewater Treatment Systems (General Order). This letter serves as formal notice
that the General Order is applicable to your facility and the wastewater discharge
described below. You are hereby assigned General Order 2014-0153-DWQ-R5332 for
your facility.
John Rowden/PECSD Board Members 2 12 February 2020
Plumas Eureka CSD
Three Trees Holding II LLC
You can also find the General Order on the State Water Board’s Adopted Orders web
page (http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/board_decisions/adopted_orders/water_quality/
2014 /wqo2014_0153_dwq.pdf).
You should familiarize yourself with the entire General Order and its attachments,
attached to this letter, which prescribes mandatory discharge and monitoring
requirements. Sampling, monitoring, and reporting requirements that are applicable to
your treatment and disposal methods must be completed in accordance with the
sections of the General Order and the attached Monitoring and Reporting Program
(MRP). This MRP was developed after consideration of your treatment system
infrastructure and site conditions described in the attached Technical Memorandum.
REGULATORY BACKGROUND
The Discharger’s wastewater treatment and disposal systems are currently regulated
under the individual Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) Order 98-007. The WDR
was adopted on 23 January 1998 and is due for an update.
FACILITY AND DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates two WWTPs, two backup leachfields and a
community leachfield located throughout a golf course and residential community
located in Sections 4, 5, 8 and 9, T22N, R12W, MDB&M, with surface water drainage to
the Feather River (see Facility Map, Attachment B). PECSD has been established as
the entity responsible for the daily operation and maintenance of the WWTP systems.
This is an existing facility, therefore enrollment under the General Order is categorically
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to California
Code of Regulations, title 14, section 15301 which applies to ongoing or existing
projects.
FACILITY SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
The Discharger will maintain exclusive control over the discharge and shall comply with
the terms and conditions of this Notice of Applicability (NOA) and the General Order
2014-0153-DWQ-R5332, with all attachments.
The General Order states in Section B.1.L that the discharger shall comply with the
setbacks as described in Table 3. The following applicable setback requirements from
Table 3, for which the Discharger shall comply, are summarized below:
John Rowden/PECSD Board Members 3 12 February 2020
Plumas Eureka CSD
Three Trees Holding II LLC
Table 3: Summary of Wastewater System Setbacks
The

===PLANNED CHANGES===

