Facility also receives waste solids from the South Bay Water Reclamation Plant
(SBWRP) and flow and pollutants from low-flow urban runoff diversion systems and
"first flush" industrial stormwater diversion systems.
The Facility provides 240 MGD of chemically-enhanced primary treatment capacity.
The treatment train consists of five influent screens, chemical injection (ferric chloride
occurs in the Parshall flumes, and anionic polymer is added in the individual flumes
to the sedimentation tanks), six aerated grit chambers, 12 primary sedimentation
basins, partial disinfection using sodium hypochlorite injection, and final screening.
Increased TSS removal is largely attributed to the Discharger's implementation of an
integrated system-wide chemical addition approach. The Discharger has proceeded
with phased implementation of a proprietary technology called Peroxide Regenerated
Iron Sulfide Control. The Discharger may pursue other similar methodologies to
provide equivalent control of sulfides in the future. On-site solids treatment at the
Facility consists of anaerobic sludge digestion. Dewatered solids are beneficially
used as an alternate daily cover at a landfill or as a soil amendment. Digested sludge
is transported via pipeline to MBC for dewatering and disposal. Screenings, grit, and
scum are trucked to a landfill for disposal.
Chlorinated advanced primary-treated wastewater is discharged through the PLOO to
the Pacific Ocean, approximately 4.5 miles offshore. Although this is beyond the limit
of the ocean waters of the State, potential plume migration within the ocean waters of
the State warrants joint regulation of the effluent. USEPA has primary regulatory
responsibility for the discharge. However, in 1984, a Memorandum of Understanding
was signed between USEPA and the State of California to jointly administer
discharges that are granted modifications from secondary treatment standards.
Under California's Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act, the San Diego Water
Board issues WDRs which serve as an NPDES permit.
2.2 Description of San Diego Metropolitan Sewerage System (Metro System)
As stated above, the Facility serves as the terminal treatment facility of the Metro
System. The Metro System collects and treats wastewater from the City of San Diego
and 12 participating agencies (listed in

===PLANNED CHANGES===

