3. Wastewater Treatment
a. Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant. During dry weather, the plant provides
secondary treatment. The treatment processes include coarse screening at the Westside
Pump Station, fine screening and grit removal at the plant headworks, primary
sedimentation, activated sludge treatment by a high-purity oxygen process, and secondary
clarification. The effluent is not disinfected. The plant has a maximum secondary
treatment design capacity of about 43 million gallons per day (MGD). During wet
weather, the plant can provide primary treatment for about 22 MGD more, which is
combined with the secondary-treated effluent prior to discharge for a total treatment
capacity of 65 MGD. Plant effluent flows to Discharge Point No. 001 by gravity.
b. Combined Sewer System. The combined storage capacity of the three transport/storage
structures is about 71 million gallons. Collection system piping provides about 2 million
gallons of additional storage. The transport/storage structures provide flow equalization
and convey combined sewer system flows up to 65 MGD to the plant by way of the
Westside Pump Station.
Flows above the plant’s 65-MGD treatment capacity receive equivalent-to-primary
treatment through solids settling, skimming of floatable solids, and in some cases
screening within the combined sewer system. In addition to pumping up to 65 MGD to
the plant, the Westside Pump Station can also pump flow from the Westside
Transport/Storage Structure to Discharge Point No. 001 during wet weather (identified in
the previous order as “decant”). The design capacity of the Westside Pump Station wet
weather pumps ranges from 98 to 133 MGD depending on the number and model of
pumps operating when there are high water levels in the West Box of the Westside
Transport/Storage Structure (typically observed during wet weather operations). Flows
that exceed the capacities of the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant and combined
sewer system may discharge from Discharge Point Nos. CSD-001, CSD-002, CSD-003,
CSD-004, CSD-005, CSD-006, and CSD-007. Four of these discharge points are directly
connected to transport/storage structures (Discharge Point Nos. CSD-001, CSD-002,
CSD-003, and CSD-004), and three are associated with pump station sumps (Discharge
Point Nos. CSD-005, CSD-006, and CSD-007). After wet weather events, stored
combined sewer system flows and accumulated solids remaining in the transport/storage
structures are conveyed to the plant for treatment.
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger uses temperature-phased anaerobic
digestion, which is capable of producing Class A biosolids. Primary sludge, waste activated
sludge, and secondary scum are mixed and co-thickened using gravity belt thickeners prior to
being fed to the anaerobic digestion system. The digestion system accepts hauled-in batches
of primary and secondary sludge from the Treasure Island Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Digested biosolids are dewatered using screw presses and stored in hoppers prior to being
loaded into covered trucks for transport. During the wet season, the majority of biosolids are
hauled to a landfill for storage and eventual use as interim cover, final cover, or landfill
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
City and County of San Francisco Order No. R2-2019-0028
Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant, Wastewater NPDES No. CA0037681
Collection System, and Westside Recycled Water Project
building material; a small percentage is reused for agricultural land application. During the
dry season, biosolids are hauled offsite for agricultural land application.
5. Water Recycling and Reclamation. The Discharger is constructing a recycled water project
at the Oceanside Water Pollution Control Plant site during this Order’s term. Secondary-
treated effluent will be treated further with membrane filtration, reverse osmosis, and
ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection to produce recycled water. The concentrate from the
reverse osmosis process will be commingled with plant effluent prior to discharge at
Discharge Point No. 001. Filter backwash water generated at the Westside Recycled Water
Project will be directed to the plant headworks for treatment. The project is expected to
produce and deliver an annual average flow of 1.6 MGD of recycled water for distribution in
the western portion of San Francisco, with peak deliveries of up to 4 MGD during summer.
Water recycling operations will not increase the mass of pollutants discharged at Discharge
Point No. 001, but will increase the concentration of pollutants discharged. The requirements
of this Order account for the discharge from this water recycling project. Reclamation
requires waste discharge requirements beyond those specified here, such as those in State
Water Board Order No. WQ 2016-0068-DDW (Water Reclamation Requirements for
Recycled Water Use).
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

