Bayside Wet Weather Facilities to maximize treatment.
a. Southeast Plant. During dry weather, the Southeast Plant provides secondary wastewater
treatment. The treatment processes include a headworks (with coarse and fine bar
screens, and grit removal), primary sedimentation tanks, pure oxygen aeration basins,
secondary clarifiers, and chlorine contact basins (for chlorination using sodium
hypochlorite and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite). These processes are shown in
the diagram in Attachment C. The Southeast Plant has a dry weather design capacity of
85.4 MGD. From June 2010 through August 2012, its average dry weather flow was
58 MGD.
During wet weather, the Southeast Plant processes up to 250 MGD of combined
wastewater (i.e., sewage, industrial wastewater, and stormwater). Up to 150 MGD
receives both primary and secondary treatment; the remaining flow (up to 100 MGD)
receives only primary treatment. The entire volume is disinfected prior to discharge.
b. North Point Facility. The North Point Facility discharges only during wet weather and
provides primary treatment of combined wastewater. The treatment consists of bar
screens, sedimentation tanks equipped with skimmers (clarification, removal of
floatables), sodium hypochlorite injection, and dechlorination using sodium bisulfite
addition. The North Point Facility can provide primary treatment for up to 150 MGD of
combined wastewater. The entire volume of treated wastewater is disinfected and
dechlorinated prior to discharge. Solids are directed to the Southeast Plant for digestion.
The North Point Facility discharges under the following circumstances:
• the North Shore Storage/Transport Box is at 200 inches;
• within 60 minutes of any combined sewer discharge through Discharge Point Nos.
013 through 017; or
• as necessary to minimize the likelihood of combined sewer discharges in the Central
and Southeast Drainage Basins.
c. Bayside Wet Weather Facilities. During dry weather, storage/transport structures
transport wastewater to the Southeast Plant. During wet weather, these structures transfer
combined wastewater to the Southeast Plant and, if necessary, the North Point Facility.
They also provide storage for more than 120 million gallons of combined wastewater. In
the event that the capacities of the Southeast Plant, North Point Facility, and
storage/transport structures are exceeded, the combined wastewater receives the
equivalent of primary treatment in the storage/transport structures and is discharged to
San Francisco Bay through any one of 29 shoreline combined sewer discharge structures.
The treatment in the storage/transport structures consists of settling solids with a series of
baffles and weirs that also remove floatable materials prior to discharge. This process
equates to the minimum treatment specified in U.S. EPA’s Combined Sewer Overflow
Control Policy (see Fact Sheet section III.C.8). After the wet weather is over, wastewater
and accumulated solids remaining in the storage/transport structures are sent to the
Southeast Plant for secondary treatment.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-5
City and County of San Francisco ORDER No. R2-2013-0029
Southeast Water Pollution Control Plant, North Point Wet Weather Facility, NPDES No. CA0037664
Bayside Wet Weather Facilities, and Wastewater Collection System
4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge from the primary and secondary clarification
operations is processed using anaerobic digestion. The process consists of gravity belt
thickeners for waste activated sludge thickening, mesophilic anaerobic digesters, and horizontal
bowl centrifuges for dewatering. After digestion, the sludge is conditioned with ferric chloride
and polymer, dewatered, and stored in cake hoppers for hauling. The digested and dewatered
biosolids are beneficially used at a permitted landfill or land-applied at a permitted site.
A portion of the biosolids is blended with green waste to create Class A compost. Class B
biosolids are land-applied on farms in Solano and Sonoma counties or used at a landfill.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has started several infrastructure projects. In October 2012, the Discharger began
the Southeast Plant Northside Facility Reliability Upgrade (Phase 2) project, which is an
$11.5-million project to replace aging secondary sludge handlers and aeration-related electrical
systems and to modify the secondary clarification process. The project is expected to be completed
in August 2014. The Discharger began an Oxygen Generation Plant Replacement project in
December 2012 and plans to complete this $12-million project in December 2013. The Discharger
began dewatering facility corrosion repairs in August 2012, a $9.1-million project to address
corrosion damage to concrete, the sludge piping network, and the electrical system at the sludge
dewatering building. This project is expected to be completed in January 2014. The Discharger is
also designing a project to begin in August 2013 to replace and relocate the sodium hypochlorite
storage tanks for disinfection.
The Discharger’s Sewer System Improvement Program is a three-phase, $6.9-billion effort over the
next 20 years to address deficiencies, improve operational flexibility, provide seismic reliability, and
ensure future compliance with anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. The program will
address aging infrastructure and technologies at the treatment plants and increase the ability of the
collection system to convey wastewater.
III.