[Page 47]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
2.1.1. Service Area and Collection System. The plant provides secondary treatment
of domestic, commercial, and industrial wastewater for the northern portion of
the City of San Leandro, serving a population of about 60,000 people. The
wastewater collection system consists of 128 miles of pipelines (125 miles of
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 48]
City of San Leandro Order R2-2022-0006
City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant –Treatment Wetland NPDES Permit CA0038881
gravity pipelines and 3 miles of force mains ranging from 6 to 18-inches in
diameter) and 13 lift stations.
2.1.2. Wastewater Treatment. After construction of the treatment wetland (see Fact
Sheet section 2.6), the Discharger will provide polished secondary treatment for
0.95 MGD of its wastewater. The treatment process will start with the plant’s
existing secondary treatment: screening, grit removal, primary sedimentation,
flow equalization, trickling filtration, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and chlorine disinfection. After this point, up to 90 percent of the
treated wastewater will be routed to the EBDA pipeline for dechlorination and
subsequent discharge through a deepwater outfall into Lower San Francisco
Bay.
To improve nitrogen removal, the remaining wastewater (0.95 MGD), regulated
by this Order, will be dechlorinated and routed through an enclosed nitrification
system, consisting of membrane aerated biofilm reactors, with an expected
nitrification efficiency of at least 75 percent. The nitrified wastewater will then be
distributed to the top of terraced denitrification bioreactors, consisting of a
series of woodchip-filled crates underneath vegetated slopes that will provide a
carbon-rich anoxic zone suitable for denitrification. The wastewater will trickle
downward into a shallow (approximately 24 inches deep), 6.9-acre, lined and
mostly unvegetated open-water wetland that will allow photolysis (light-induced
decomposition) of trace organic contaminants (e.g., pesticides and
pharmaceuticals). The wetland will also provide additional denitrification as the
wastewater flows through interior vegetated dikes equipped with more
woodchip-filled crates. Attachment C, Figure C-2, illustrates the wetland
treatment process.
2.1.3. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Sludge is anaerobically digested,
dewatered using a belt filter press, and air dried. The Discharger hauls dried
biosolids to an authorized disposal site or applies the biosolids to land as
Class A Exceptional Quality biosolids (as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 503). Sludge
and biosolids management is regulated under NPDES Permit CA0037869 (for
the EBDA Common Outfall).
2.1.4. Stormwater Management. All stormwater flows in contact with Facility
equipment or wastewater are collected and directed to the plant headworks for
treatment. Therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are necessary
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Water. Discharge of treatment wetland effluent
will be through Discharge Point 002, a local outfall consisting of a concrete vault
with a weir-style inlet and a 48-inch diameter corrugated metal pipe outlet running
from the vault to Lower San Francisco Bay (see Attachment B, Figure B-3).
Discharge Point 001 is the EBDA Common Outfall, regulated under NPDES
Permit CA0037869.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 49]
City of San Leandro Order R2-2022-0006
City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant –Treatment Wetland NPDES Permit CA0038881
2.3. Previous Requirements and Monitoring Data. This Order is a new NPDES
permit, but City of San Leandro Water Pollution Control Plant discharges are
already regulated under NPDES Permit CA0037869. The effluent limitations for
the plant and representative monitoring data from the Discharger’s flows to the
EBDA pipeline are presented below. These data, from June 1, 2016, to

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. To demonstrate the feasibility of implementing nature-based
solutions for building shoreline resiliency, creating habitat, and improving water
quality in the Region, the Discharger plans to construct a multi-beneficial treatment
wetland to polish a portion of its wastewater. Specifically, the Discharger plans to
install a dechlorination system and enclosed nitrification system, consisting of
membrane aerated biofilm reactors, to further treat a portion of its flows from the
existing secondary treatment and disinfection processes. The Discharger also
plans to convert its existing 6.9-acre wastewater storage basin into a shallow,
freshwater, open-water wetland to provide polishing treatment (denitrification and
photolysis) for flows from the nitrification system. The Discharger plans to install
either an adjustable weir plate or standpipe at the outfall from the wetland to
ensure the water depth remains shallow.
3. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and
authorities described in this section.
3.1. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to California Water Code
article 4, chapter 4, division 7 (commencing with § 13260). This Order is also
issued pursuant to federal Clean