Sheet section 2.5.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The plant can provide secondary treatment for an
average daily dry weather design flow of 15.7 million gallons per day (MGD).
During dry seasons (May 1 to September 30) from 2018 to 2023, the plant
treated an average daily dry weather flow of 9.9 MGD. The plant treatment
process consists of primary clarification, activated sludge aeration, secondary
clarification, and sodium hypochlorite disinfection.
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
City of San Mateo and Order R2-2023-0017
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES Permit CA0037541
The Discharger is undertaking major plant upgrades (see Fact Sheet
section 2.5). When completed, the plant will provide preliminary screening, grit
removal, fine screening, primary clarification, biological nutrient removal,
filtration with activated sludge treatment (through a membrane bioreactor), and
chlorine disinfection. During peak wet weather, when flows exceed the capacity
of the biological nutrient removal and membrane bioreactor system (ranging
from 21 MGD as a daily average flow to 31.5 MGD for up to 48 hours, and up to
48 MGD for 4 hours) the portion of flows above the membrane bioreactor
capacity will be routed to a separate biological treatment process consisting of a
biological contact tank containing activated sludge and a high-rate clarifier that
uses flocculation to increase the solids settling rate. Wastewater routed through
this separate wet weather treatment process will also be disinfected. This
treatment configuration is not considered a bypass because all wastewater will
receive biological treatment. This will allow the plant to treat peak wet weather
flows up to 60 MGD. The Discharger will be able to manage peak wet weather
flows of up to 78 MGD by storing screened wastewater in onsite equalization
basins.
Attachment C provides flow schematics for the current treatment plant and the
proposed upgraded plant under both dry-weather and wet-weather operations.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. The Discharger thickens primary sludge
with gravity thickeners and waste-activated sludge through dissolved air
flotation, treats the thickened sludge with anaerobic digestion, dewaters the
digested sludge with a centrifuge, and hauls the dewatered, treated biosolids
offsite for disposal. The plant upgrades will not affect the sludge and biosolids
processes.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. The Discharger captures most stormwater within
the plant’s storm drain system, which directs the stormwater to the plant’s
influent junction box for treatment. A portion of the onsite stormwater flows
offsite to Seal Slough. This stormwater discharge is covered under the State
Water Board’s statewide NPDES permit for stormwater discharges associated
with industrial activities (NPDES General Permit CAS000001). The Discharger
is undertaking upgrades to eliminate offsite discharges.
2.1.6. Recycled Water Activities. The Discharger does not currently produce
recycled water. When the Discharger completes its plant upgrades, it expects to
produce up to 10 MGD of recycled water meeting California Water Code
Title 22 requirements for non-potable uses. This water will be discharged to the
Bay until recycled water users are identified and recycled water storage and
distribution infrastructure is built.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes. In 2014, the Discharger initiated a Clean Water Program to
eliminate SSOs and implement treatment plant improvements. The purpose of
these improvements is to accommodate extreme wet weather flows to the plant
(i.e., eliminate wet weather bypasses), enhance nutrient removal, and provide
opportunities for future water reuse. As such, the Discharger plans to complete the
following projects during this Order term.
· Increases in collection system capacity consisting of pipeline and pump station
increases and installation of an in-system storage basin to equalize high flows to
the plant;
· Installation of a treatment plant headworks (consisting of preliminary screening,
grit removal, and fine screening), a biological nutrient removal process,
a membrane bioreactor, and an additional wet weather biological treatment
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-11
City of San Mateo and Order R2-2023-0017
City of Foster City Estero Municipal Improvement District NPDES Permit CA0037541
process for wet weather flows that exceed the capacities of the biological nutrient
removal unit and membrane bioreactor;
· Improvements to onsite stormwater management and drainage, plant
automation, and electrical systems;
· Construction of a new administration building to house workspaces for plant and
administration staff, a main control room, and a laboratory; and
· Repurposing the existing aeration basins for wet weather flow equalization.
This Order authorizes these changes subject to conditions set forth in Provision
6.3.5.4.
2.6. Sea Level Rise. In its response to a sea level rise questionnaire the Regional
Water Board sent on April 14, 2021, the Discharger noted that the treatment plant
is protected by the City of San Mateo’s levee, which is accredited by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Additionally, as part of the Clean Water
Program, the Discharger considered the Ocean Protection Council’s 2018 Sea-
Level Rise Guidance when planning treatment plant updates. The Discharger
designed all electrical systems and new entrances at an elevation that protects the
structures from a 100-year flood and 3.4 feet of sea level rise, consistent with
projects that will have a lifespan beyond 2050. The Discharger intends to continue
to take measures to retain FEMA accreditation for its levee network and consider
sea level rise protection measures on an ongoing basis. The Discharger is also a
member of the San Mateo County Flood and Sea Level Rise Resiliency District,
now known as OneShoreline, which seeks to initiate countywide efforts to address
sea level rise and other emerging concerns through integrated regional planning.
3.