[Page 39]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
2.1. Wastewater Treatment
2.1.1. Location. The Discharger owns and operates (1) the Point Isabel WWF at 2755
Isabel Street, Richmond, (2) the San Antonio Creek WWF at 225 5th Avenue,
Oakland, and (3) the Oakport WWF at 5597 Oakport Street, Oakland.
Attachment B provides a map of the outfalls for each of these WWFs, as well as
a map of the area around them.
2.1.2 Collection System. The WWFs are connected to an interceptor system the
Discharger owns and operates. The interceptor system is permitted under a
separate NPDES permit (CA0037702) for the Discharger’s Main Wastewater
Treatment Plant. This system includes the North Interceptor, South Interceptor,
Adeline Interceptor, South Foothill Interceptor, and Alameda Interceptor
(a combined length of 29 miles). The interceptor system has a hydraulic
capacity of 760 MGD. The interceptor system also includes 15 pump stations,
5 overflow structures, and a one-million-gallon wet weather storage basin
upstream of the Alameda Interceptor near Pump Station C. The cities of
Alameda, Albany, Berkeley, Emeryville, Oakland, and Piedmont, and the Stege
Sanitary District operate satellite collection systems that discharge wastewater
to the Discharger’s interceptor system.
2.1.3. Wastewater Treatment. The Point Isabel WWF provides storage and treatment
for peak wet weather flows diverted from the North Interceptor. If influent flows
ATTACHMENT F — FACT SHEET F-5
[Page 40]
East Bay Municipal Utility District, Special District No.1 Order R2-2025-0006
Wet Weather Facilities NPDES Permit CA0038440
persist and exceed the onsite storage capacity, the WWF provides treatment
consisting of coarse screens, bar screens, grit chambers, and
sedimentation/disinfection basins.
The San Antonio Creek WWF provides treatment for peak wet weather flows
diverted from the South Interceptor. Treatment consists of fine screening,
settling basins, and disinfection.
The Oakport WWF provides storage and treatment for peak wet weather flows
diverted from the South Interceptor. If influent flows persist and exceed the
on-site storage capacity, the WWF provides treatment consisting of coarse
screens and sedimentation/disinfection basins.
2.1.4. Sludge and Biosolids Management. Material captured in the screening
process is disposed of in a permitted landfill. Any grit and sludge removed at
the grit chambers and sedimentation basins is returned to the interceptor
system for treatment at the Discharger’s Main Wastewater Treatment Plant.
2.1.5. Stormwater Management. All stormwater at the WWFs is collected and
directed to the facility’s headworks for treatment or transport through the
interceptor system; therefore, no additional stormwater requirements are
necessary.
2.2. Discharge Point and Receiving Waters
This Order prohibits discharges from the WWFs. The Point Isabel WWF
discharges from Discharge Point 001 through a submerged diffuser about 300 feet
offshore at a depth of 8 feet below mean low tide to Richmond Inner Harbor, part
of Ce

===PLANNED CHANGES===

