[Page 96]
2024. Each treatment process will be commissioned over several months
following the order of process flow—from chlorine addition at the source water
pump station to ozone, membrane filtration, reverse osmosis (RO), ultraviolet
light advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP), post treatment stabilization, and
finally through the purified water pump station. While the system is being
commissioned, all treated water (e.g., MF filtrate) and waste residuals (e.g., MF
backwash waste) will be combined in the ROC wet well and then will flow to the
Facility for discharge through the City’s existing outfall. The start-up,
commissioning, and testing flows are expected to be less than 2.77 MGD.
Chemical treatment during commissioning (e.g., chloramine disinfection, ozone,
and UVAOP) will improve the quality of the return flows compared to the Santa
Cruz WWTF secondary effluent currently being discharged. Physical treatment
(e.g., MF and RO) is not anticipated to change water quality because the waste
residuals from each process will be recombined prior to discharge.
Overall, the water quality being discharged during commissioning is anticipated
to be in compliance with California Ocean Plan requirements, with water quality
equal to or better than the anticipated quality during normal AWPF operation.
Discharges associated with startup and commissioning activities of the AWPF to
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 97]
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ ORDER R3-2023-0001
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0048194
the Santa Cruz WWTF for discharge through the City’s existing outfall are
authorized by this permit and must meet effluent and receiving water limits
found in sections 4 and 5 of this permit.
2.2.2 Non-Potable Reuse
About 0.3 MGD of secondary effluent will be diverted to the new NPR Project at
the Facility. The NPR Project consists of cloth disk filtration, a break tank, UV
disinfection, and chemical storage and feed facilities. The treatment provided will
meet all requirements of disinfected tertiary recycled water per California Code of
Regulations title 22. Backwash waste from the cloth disk filtration system is
returned to the headworks of the Facility. Upon startup of the NPR Project, non-
potable product water will be used for onsite purposes such as tank cleaning,
chemical dilution, and providing water for on-site pump seals. In the future, the
City may distribute the non-potable recycled water for external uses such as
nonagricultural irrigation, truck fill station, and dust suppression.
2.3. Discharge Points and Receiving W

===PLANNED CHANGES===

