organic nitrogen.
C. Pond System Monitoring
Required Pond Monitoring – All wastewater treatment and treated wastewater
storage/disposal ponds (lined and unlined) must be monitored as specified in Table 6.
Sampling for pH and dissolved oxygen must be a grab sample taken from 1 foot below
pond surface.
Observations do not need to be reported in the monitoring reports unless a violation,
significant change, or treatment issue is observed. Photos of the pond(s) verifying the
observations must be collected annually and included in the annual report, with the date
and location of the photo clearly marked. Observations must be noted in a logbook or
database and made available to the Central Coast Water Board upon request. Any
problems must be promptly corrected and recorded.
- 8 -
San Miguelito Mutual Water Company April 18, 2024
Wild Cherry Canyon Wastewater Treatment Plant
Table 6. Wastewater Treatment Pond Monitoring
Parameter/ Ponds to
Sampling/Monitoring
Units Sample Type
Monitor
Frequency
Constituent
Freeboard 0.1 feet Measured Weekly Ponds 1, 2, 3
0.1 feet Measured Annually Ponds 1, 2, 3
Sludge Depth
Not Ponds 1, 2, 3
Observation Monthly
Color applicable
Not Ponds 1, 2, 3
Vegetation in and Observation Monthly
Applicable
surrounding ponds
Not Ponds 1, 2, 3
Observation Monthly
Berm condition Applicable
inches/day Measured [1] Each precipitation event [2] Ponds 1, 2, 3
Precipitation
and date
[1] San Miguelito Mutual Water Company may use a rain gauge or use a National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, United States Geological Survey, or California Irrigation
Management Information System weather station, such as http://scacis.rcc-acis.org/.
[2] A precipitation event is one producing precipitation of ½ inch or more.
D. Serpentine Settling Pond (Pond 3) Berm Monitoring
San Miguelito Mutual Water Company shall monitor the location of the western bank of
Wild Cherry Canyon Creek in relation to the berm on the eastern side of the serpentine
settling pond (pond 3). Wild Cherry Canyon Creek has the potential to erode the toe of
the berm and destabilize the settling pond. San Miguelito Mutual Water Company must
take measurements of the location of the western edge of the creek (e.g., coordinates)
and of the distance from the western edge of the creek to the toe and crest of the
settling pond berm. San Miguelito Mutual Water Company shall inspect the eastern
edge of the berm and western bank of the creek for cracks, saturated soil, seepage, or
other signs of instability. Signs of instability must immediately be reported to the Central
Coast Water Board. Monitoring of the serpentine settling pond berm shall be consistent
with Table 7.
Table 7. Serpentine Settling Pond Monitoring Parameters and Frequencies
Minimum

===PLANNED CHANGES===

