[Page 75]
3. Wastewater Treatment. Influent from the collection system of each agency is pumped to
the treatment plant headworks where raw wastewater flows through a bar screen that
removes large debris. Influent is then routed to aerated grit tanks where sand and grit are
allowed to settle out, then are dewatered and sent to a landfill. Wastewater then flows
into one of three primary clarifiers where solids settle to the bottom and floatable
materials are mechanically collected and pumped to the digesters.
The Discharger completed a substantial upgrade of the Facility in December 2013,
allowing the plant to achieve full secondary treatment. The primary effluent moves to a
biofilter to trickle over plastic media where bacteria feed on organic wastes and then
flows to an aeration basin. A portion of the secondary process flow can be diverted to the
reclamation facilities for tertiary treatment with gravity filters. The remaining secondary
effluent flows to the head of the chlorine contact channel where sodium hypochlorite is
injected to kill bacteria in the effluent. Prior to discharge into the ocean, sodium bisulfite
is added for dechlorination, thus completing the disinfection process.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 76]
GOLETA SANITARY DISTRICT ORDER NO. R3-2017-0021
WATER RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0048160
4. Biosolids Management. Settleable solids and floatable materials from the primary
clarifiers are treated in three heated anaerobic sludge digesters for a minimum of 15
days. Sludge from the digesters then flows to one of two stabilization basins. Stabilized
sludge is dredged from the bottom of the basins and is dewatered by two new screw
presses. The digested supernatant from the three anaerobic digesters can also be
diverted from the stabilization basins directly to the screw presses for dewatering.
5. Recycled Water Production. Using coagulation, flocculation, filtration, and chlorination
processes, up to 3.3 MGD (or 11,400 m3/day) of its municipal wastewater is tertiary-
treated to meet Title 22 Water Recycling Criteria. Since 1991 and in accordance with
Waste Discharge Requirements Order No. 91-03, the Discharger provides recycled
wastewater to the Goleta Water District for landscape irrigation and incidental uses, such
as dust control and compaction at construction sites.
B. Di

===PLANNED CHANGES===

