Pure Water Monterey recycled water conveyance system.
2.1.1 Regional WWTP Secondary Treatment
Wastewater treatment at the Regional WWTP includes screening, aerated grit
removal, primary sedimentation, secondary treatment through trickling filters,
solids contact (i.e., bio-flocculation), and secondary clarification. Undisinfected
secondary clarifier effluent that is not further processed at the tertiary facility or
AWPF is discharged to the ocean through Discharge Point 001. Biosolids are
anaerobically digested and sent to two screw presses for dewatering. Holding
lagoons and drying beds located on site are utilized to dry sludge. Dried solids are
hauled to the ReGen Monterey (formerly Monterey Regional Waste Management
District) landfill in Marina, located adjacent to the Regional WWTP, where they are
mixed with refuse and buried each day. Currently, land application of biosolids is
not allowed in Monterey County.
Although it had accepted up to 50,000 gallons of hauled saline waste7 in a single
day previously, more recently the Facility accepts negligible amounts of hauled
saline waste because the Discharger implemented enhanced saline waste
analytical requirements. Hauled saline wastes can be monitored and held in a
375,000-gallon (approximate) lined pond before it is blended with secondary
effluent and discharged to the Pacific Ocean through Discharge Point 001;
however, this rarely occurs. The Discharger segregates these high-salt waste
streams from the rest of the influent flow to minimize salts present in the
secondary effluent. This protects irrigation reuse of recycled water from containing
salt concentrations that exceed crop tolerance.
2.1.2 Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF)
Some secondary-treated effluent from the Regional WWTP undergoes full
advanced treatment at the AWPF, including ozone addition, membrane filtration,
RO, advanced oxidation using ultraviolet light and hydrogen peroxide, and
finished water stabilization. The AWPF was originally designed to produce 5
MGD. Upon completion of an expansion project in late 2025, the AWPF will have
capacity to produce 7.6 MGD of full advanced-treated water for injection in the
Seaside Groundwater Basin and landscape irrigation by Marina Coast Water
District. RO concentrate from the AWPF is mixed with hauled saline waste (if
present) and secondary effluent (when available) from the Regional WWTP and
7Hauled saline wastes have historically consisted of by-product from commercial water treatment entities
(e.g., Culligan) and seawater brine from the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
MONTEREY ONE WATER ORDER R3-2024-0045
REGIONAL WWTP AND AWPF NPDES CA0048551
discharged to the ocean at Discharge Point 001. Membrane filter backwash
produced by the AWPF is sent to the Regional WWTP headworks for treatment.
This Order addresses the discharge of AWPF RO concentrate with hauled saline
waste and secondary effluent at Discharge Point 001. The production and
subsequent groundwater injection of full advanced treated recycled water at the
AWPF is governed by separate Waste Discharge Requirements/Water Recycling
Requirements (WDRs/WRRs) Order R3-2017-0003 (and any subsequent
revisions to that order).
2.1.3. Tertiary Treatment
Some secondary effluent undergoes tertiary treatment for irrigation of farmland in
the northern Salinas Valley. Tertiary treatment includes coagulation, flocculation,
filtration, and disinfection for design flows of up to 29.6 MGD. Tertiary treated
wastewater is held in an 80-acre-foot storage pond before it is distributed to
12,000 acres of farmland by the CSIP distribution system.
Production of disinfected tertiary recycled water at the Regional WWTP is
governed by this Order. The distribution and use of recycled water for irrigation is
regulated via separate WRRs and is supplied to CSIP from Monterey County
Water Resources Agency’s Salinas Valley Water Project (SVWP). SVWP also
includes a seasonal Salinas River Diversion Facility, screening and disinfection of
river water prior to combining with tertiary recycled water and flowing to the
recycled water pond.
2.1.4. Source Waters and Effluent Flows
In 2020, as part of the Pure Water Monterey project, new sources of urban and
agricultural runoff were directed to the Regional WWTP headworks to increase the
supply of recycled water. The new source waters are composed of Salinas
industrial wastewater (non-domestic wastewater primarily from produce
processing), stormwater flows from Salinas, and stormwater and agricultural
runoff from the Blanco Drain and the Salinas Reclamation Canal, all of which are
mixed with domestic sewage (including storm water, dry season urban runoff, and
industrial wastewater) from the member agencies at the Regional WWTP
headworks. Due to lower than anticipated municipal wastewater flows and
increased demand for recycled water, more water will be diverted from these
same sources in the future to meet recycled water influent needs.
At peak operating capacity, the AWPF will receive approximately 10.4 MGD of
secondary effluent as source water (of that, approximately 0.68 MGD will be
returned to the Regional WWTP headworks as filter backwash) and will achieve
approximately 73 percent overall recovery to produce 7.6 MGD of recycled water
for irrigation and groundwater injection. A maximum of 1.78 MGD of RO
concentrate from the AWPF will be discharged to the ocean from Discharge Point
001. The total discharge flow through Discharge Point 001 will not exceed the
permitted flows of 29.6 MGD (ADWF) and 75.6 MGD (PWWF).

===PLANNED CHANGES===

