A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls.
1. Treatment System. The headworks include four screw pumps, two 6mm
punched plate screens, and two aerated grit chambers, along with a magnesium
hydroxide alkalinity control system. The biological/secondary treatment consists
of four 2 MG oxidation ditches using fine bubble diffusers, each with an anoxic
zone for denitrification. There are two 92-foot and two 130-foot secondary
clarifiers. Tertiary filtration is performed by four cloth media filters with 5
nanometer precision. Disinfection is achieved through two ultraviolet light
channels.
2. Pond System Description and Operation
a. Pond System General Information. The depth of water in the ponds ranges
between 1 foot to 6 feet and the depth to groundwater is, at times, less than
10 feet. The CV-SALTS Nitrate Control Program Notice of Intent (Nitrate
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2026-0004
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
Control Program NOI) included results from a December 2022 water balance
study conducted by Luhdorff & Scalmanini Consulting Engineers (LSCE) on
Ponds 8 and 11 (Water Balance Study) to determine seepage rates for each
pond. These ponds were chosen to include one lined pond (compacted,
lime/concrete-treated soil) and one unlined pond (compacted native soil).
The Water Balance Study was conducted over a two-week period from
12 December 2022 to 20 December 2022 for Pond 11 and 20 December
2022 through 26 December 2022 for Pond 8. The Water Balance Study was
conducted during times of no precipitation and both ponds were hydraulically
isolated, conditions that ensured that any water level changes in these ponds
could be attributed to seepage or evaporation only. The Water Balance Study
utilized meteorological equipment and transducers to produce data used to
estimate evaporation and measure water level changes within Pond 8 and
Pond 11.
Evaporation was subtracted from the water level changes to determine the
total amount of water level changes that could be attributed to seepage. Pond
8 was determined to have a seepage rate of 0.18 in/d (5.3 x 10-6 centimeters
per second [cm/s]) and Pond 11 had a seepage rate of 0.07 in/d (2.1 x 10-6
cm/s). All lined ponds were assigned the seepage rate for Pond 11 and all
unlined ponds were assigned the seepage rate for Pond 8. These seepage
rates are specific to a static pond water level of 4-5 feet, which is the
approximate depth of water in the ponds at the time of the Water Balance
Study.
b. Pond 13. Pond 13 is also referred to as the Erskine Pond and both terms will
be used interchangeably throughout this Fact Sheet. The Erskine Pond is a
40acre pond with a native clay pond bottom and is not equipped with an
-
engineered liner or soil treatment. The Erskine Pond provides peak and
emergency overflow protection, onsite discharge containment during plant
shutdowns, and functions as an algae production pond to assist with onsite
sludge stabilization. A portion of the facility’s secondary effluent is directed to
the pond to maintain a water cap conducive to algae production. The pond
occasionally contains screened influent from plant diversions and rainwater
from precipitation, but a persistent secondary effluent water cap is
maintained. Wastewater in the Erskine Pond is not returned to the
headworks, and the pond level and odors are maintained with secondary
effluent year-round. Wastewater from the Erskine Pond is further distributed
to the south ponds.
c. Pond 1 through Pond 8 and Pond 12. Pond 1 through Pond 8 and Pond 12
are also referred to as the Algae Production Ponds and both terms will be
used interchangeably throughout this Fact Sheet. Ponds 1 through 8 and 12
are approximately 10 acres each (total acreage of the unlined ponds is
approximately 139.5 acres) and have native clay bottoms but are not
equipped with engineered liners or soil treatment. Percolation rates (specific
discharge) for these unlined ponds are approximately 5.3 x 10-6 cm/s
measured when the ponds contained 4-5 feet of water, which are derived
from the Water Balance Study. Along with the Erskine Pond, the Algae
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2026-0004
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
Production Ponds serve multiple purposes, including occasional use for peak
and emergency overflow protection, and for onsite discharge containment
during plant shutdowns. These ponds are primarily used for algae production
to assist with onsite sludge stabilization. As discussed in section II.A.4 of this
Fact Sheet, algae produced in Ponds 1-8 (and WAS) is discharged into the
three lined Sludge Stabilization Ponds to convert the WAS to biosolids.
Wastewater is distributed to these ponds via the pond pump station which
may contain wastewater from the Erskine Pond and/or other points in the
treatment process. The system allows wastewater to circulate among the
ponds to maintain the water cap. Generally, water is directed into the Erskine
Pond and then pumped into Ponds 1, 2, and/or 3, subsequently moving into
Ponds 4, 5, and/or 6, followed by Ponds 7, 8, and 12 if necessary. Individual
ponds can be taken out of service using valves and gates to enable
bypassing specific ponds when needed. After reaching Pond 12, water is
redirected to the pump station for recirculation and cannot be returned to
headworks or any other portion of the wastewater treatment system. Instead,
a shallow water cap consisting of wastewater and rainwater is maintained to
promote aerobic algae production. Water is lost through evaporation and
percolation and replaced with wastewater. Oxygenated, algae-laden water is
distributed to the Sludge Stabilization Ponds (Ponds 9, 10, and 11) to sustain
the aerobic layer required for sludge stabilization.
The Algae Production Ponds may contain water year-round, have low water
levels, or be dry. Due to evaporation and operational processes, salt
concentrations tend to increase starting in Pond 1 and increasing in each
subsequent pond, typically reaching a maximum concentration in Pond 8.
d. Ponds 9, 10, and 11. Ponds 9, 10 and 11 are also referred to as the Sludge
Stabilization Ponds and both terms will be used interchangeably throughout
this Fact Sheet. Each sludge stabilization pond is approximately 10 acres
(approximately 34.2 acres in total for all three Sludge Stabilization Ponds) and
are soil-cement lined with a combination of native clay, lime, and cement to
reduce percolation rates beyond the natural percolation rates. The liner depth
in Pond 11 is 12 inches and the liner depth for Ponds 9 and 10 is 18 inches.
The percolation rate for Pond 11 is approximately 2.06 x 10-6 cm/s which is
derived from the Water Balance Study in 2022, conducted at a pond water
depth of 4-5 feet. This seepage rate is a function of hydraulic head (pond
water level), liner thickness, and hydraulic conductivity. Using Darcy’s law, the
seepage rate, a 4-foot water depth, and liner depth of 1 foot, the estimated
hydraulic conductivity of the Pond 11 cement-soil liner is no greater than 4.1 x
10-7 cm/s, which is less than the hydraulic conductivity of 1 x 10-6 cm/s.
The Sludge Stabilization Ponds function as sludge drying beds or facultative
lagoons. The three ponds are used in rotation so that one of the ponds is in
use as a facultative sludge lagoon receiving sludge and water while the other
two ponds are in various stages of drying and sludge removal. Facultative
lagoons allow solids to separate by density, with anaerobic digestion
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
CITY OF WOODLAND ORDER R5-2026-0004
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY NPDES CA0077950
occurring in the sludge layer and aerobic activity near the surface.
Intermediate zones support facultative organisms that oxidize organics and
anaerobic byproducts. The Discharger has adopted a system of loading one
Sludge Stabilization Pond with sludge for two to three years, allowing that
pond to rest/digest for two years, and hiring a contractor the following summer
to dry the material in place, test for compliance with the EPA 503 sludge
disposal regulations (to determine future suitability for land application and for
landfill regulations), and landfill disposal, land application, or other disposal off
site. The contractor determines the final disposal location for the City’s
biosolids.
e. Emergency Detention Basin. The Discharger is preparing to assess
alternatives, design, secure funding, permit and construct improvements to
the Erskine Pond that will convert it or portions of it into an emergency
detention basin and pump station located adjacent to the plant headworks.
The emergency detention basin is expected to be in operation by 2036 and
will receive excess sewage flows occurring during larger rain events and
bypasses during finite emergency events. The wastewater would be pumped
back to the headworks after the event concludes. Secondary effluent would
continue to be directed into the South Ponds and would be in full compliance
with groundwater limitations.
f. Former North Ponds. The former City of Woodland North Ponds (North
Ponds) contained nine ponds that were used for sludge stabilization. In the
summer of 2012, the North Ponds were further dewatered, and pond bottoms
were scrapped to construct a pad for the Woodland-Davis Clean Water
Agency Regional Water Treatment Facility, in the area formerly occupied by
North Ponds 1 and 2.
The Discharger submitted closure notification of the North Ponds to the
Central Valley Water Board on 30 January 2012. Central Valley Water Board
staff reviewed the 30 January 2012 closure notification and the groundwater
data applicable to the North Ponds system and determined the pond closure
clean-up activities were acceptable and the monitoring data indicated no
degradation to the underlying groundwater. The Central Valley Water Board
determined that the North Ponds were properly closed in a 12 April 2012
Approval of Closure Letter (April 2012 Approval Letter) to the Discharger. The
April 2012 Approval Letter also indicated that further changes to the North
Ponds site do not require notification of the Central Valley Water Board since
the NPDES permits for the Facility no longer include the use of the North
Ponds.
3.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

