F. Method of Disposal
1. Describe and provide the following information related to biosolids disposal
method(s). If more than one method will be utilized, include the percentage of
annual biosolids production expected to be disposed of by each method.
a. Landfill Disposal
i. Name(s) and location(s) of landfill(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the landfill(s).
iii. Present classification of the landfill(s).
iv. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the landfill(s).
b. Incineration
i. Name(s) and location(s) of incineration site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the incineration site(s).
iii. Method of disposal of ash from the incineration site(s).
iv. Names.and locations of facilities receiving ash from the incineration site(s),
if applicable.
v. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the incineration
site(s).
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER ND. 2009-0088 -4-
ATIACHMENTE
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PLAN
c. Composting
i. Name(s) and location(s) of composting site(s).
ii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the composting site(s).
iii. Name and telephone number of the contact person at the composting
site(s).
d. Land Application
i. Ownership of the site(s) where biosolids are applied.
ii. Assessor Parcel Numbers (APNs) of site(s) where biosolids are applied.
iii. Waste discharge requirements order numbers adopted by the Regional
Board that regulate the biosolids application site(s).
ORDER NO. 2009-0088
ATTACHMENT F
STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS
FOR
WASTEWATER TREATEMENT FACILITIES
The purpose of the Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) is to budget and manage nutrients
applied to land application area(s) considering all sources of nutrients, crop requirements, soil
types, climate, and local conditions in order to prevent adverse impacts to surface water and
groundwaterquality. The NMP must take site-specific conditions into consideration in
identifying steps that will minimize nutrient movement through surface runoff or leaching past
the root zone.
The NMP must contain, at a minimum, all the elements listed below under Contents of a
Nutrient Management Plan and must be updated in response to changing conditions,
monitoring results, and other factors.
A specialist who is certified in developing nutrient management plans shall develop the NMP.
A certified specialist is a Professional Soil Scientist, Professional Agronomist, or Crop Advisor
certified by the American Society of Agronomy or a Technical Service Provider certified in
nutrient management in California by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).
The Executive Officer may approve alternative proposed specialists. Only NMPs prepared
and signed by these parties will be considered certified.
The Monitoring and Reporting Program specifies minimum amounts of monitoring that must
be conducted at the wastewater treatment facility (WWTF). As indicated below, this
information must be used to make management decisions related to nutrient management.
Likewise, the timing and amounts of wastewater applications to crops must be known to
correctly calculate the amount of storage needed.
Waste and land application areas shall be managed to prevent contamination of crops grown
for human consumption. The term "crops grown for human consumption" refers only to crops
that will not undergo subsequent processing which adequately removes potential microbial
danger to consumers.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. 2009 -0088 -2-
ATTACHMENT F - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
Contents of a Nutrient Management Plan
The NMP shall identify the name, address of owner and operator and shall.contain all of the
following elements to demonstrate that the Discharger can control nutrient losses that may
impact surface water or

===PLANNED CHANGES===

