WWTF Upgrade Project
12. For the purposes of this Order, the upgraded tertiary WWTF includes the wastewater
collection system, the treatment system, effluent storage ponds, effluent distribution
piping, lined sludge storage area, and the Discharger’s onsite Use Area (spray fields
and crops).
13. Improvements to the WWTF include: upgrade of the existing headworks (new influent
sewer lines, new influent flow metering and new fine/coarse bar screens);
construction/installation of an extended aeration basin; two new secondary clarifiers;
coagulation of clarified effluent; six continuous backwash sand filters; an ultraviolet light
disinfection chamber; three new storage ponds; two new sludge dewatering centrifuges;
and conversion of an existing treatment pond to a dewatered sludge storage area. The
WWTF will produce an effluent anticipated to meet coliform levels of 2.2 Most Probable
Number per 100 milliliters (MPN/100 mL) and a total nitrogen concentration of less than
10 mg/L.
14. Tertiary treated effluent from the WWTF will be recycled and/or disposed of at the
181-acre Use Area west and southwest of the WWTF, as shown in Attachment A. The
term Use Area, as used herein, includes the Prison’s existing 85-acre onsite spray field
area upon which tertiary treated water will be disposed of, and the Prison’s 96-acre
onsite farmland upon which tertiary treated water will be recycled for irrigation of crops.
Additionally, tertiary effluent will be delivered to the Tehachapi-Cummings County Water
District for distribution under a Master Reclamation Permit. The effluent will be used to
irrigate the Stallion Springs Golf Course southwest of the WWTF, as shown in
Attachment A. Additional potential Reclamation Areas include sod farms and/or green
belts, as shown in Attachment A. The term Reclamation Area, as used herein, includes
the Stallion Springs Golf Course and sod farms to which Tehachapi-Cummings County
Water District will distribute tertiary treated water to be recycled for irrigation.
15. The WWTF is designed for continuous operation with backup systems for component
malfunction and primary power outage. All critical mechanical components will have
duplex or redundant backup units. In the event of a malfunction, the backup units will
automatically be started by the system. A standby power generator will provide power to
the headworks and alarm system in case of a power outage. There is adequate
emergency storage to meet Title 22 reliability and redundancy requirements.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -4-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
Sludge Management and Biosolids Disposal
16. Sludge as used herein means the solid, semisolid, and liquid residues generated during
the treatment of industrial and domestic sewage in the wastewater treatment facility.
Sludge includes solids removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater
treatment processes, but not grit or screening material generated at the headworks.
Biosolids as used herein means sludge that has undergone treatment and subsequently
been tested and shown to be capable of being beneficially useful and legally used
pursuant to federal and state regulations as a soil amendment for agriculture,
silviculture, horticulture, and land reclamation.
17. The Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent for Biosolids Discharge to Land dated
22 January 2010 to obtain coverage for a proposed discharge of sludge under State
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Water Quality Order No. 2004-
0012-DWQ, General Waste Discharge Requirements for the Discharge of Biosolids to
Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in Agricultural, Silvicutural, Horticultural, and Land
Reclamation Activities (General Order 2004-0012-DWQ). The Discharger proposed to
remove approximately 2,500 tons of sludge that had accumulated in the former
treatment ponds, dewater the sludge with a centrifuge, and then dry the sludge in a
3.6-acre clay-lined sludge treatment/storage area (previously a treatment pond). The
resulting biosolids are to be used as a soil amendment on land owned by the
Discharger.
18. The Discharger was issued a Notice of Applicability (NOA) on 15 May 2010 for coverage
under General Order 2004-0012-DWQ. The NOA is for the discharge of sludge from the
former treatment ponds and does not cover discharges of sludge generated from the
ongoing operation of the tertiary WWTF. The NOA will be terminated at the conclusion
of the sludge removal and application project. The Discharger submitted a Pre-
Application report on 3 June 2010 indicating a total of 2,127 tons of Class B biosolids
would be applied to 60 acres at a rate of 35.4 tons per acre.
19. The Discharger proposes to dewater and store sludge generated from the upgraded
tertiary WWTF with a centrifuge and then discharge the dewatered sludge for storage to
a 3.6-acre clay-lined storage area that was formerly a wastewater treatment pond
located adjacent the upgraded WWTF. The Discharger’s consulting engineer provided
a 27 August 2010 signed and stamped memo that indicates the clay liner will confine
any leachate to the storage area. Additional information regarding the storage area
(thickness of clay liner, performance demonstration data, storm water controls) and the
proposed methods of treatment of the sludge is necessary. A Use Area Management
Plan is required by Provision G.20 of this Order before land application of biosolids can
proceed. Additionally, a technical report demonstrating that the Discharger’s storage
practices are exempt from Title 27 requirements is required by Provision G.11 of this
Order.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -5-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
20. The use of biosolids as a soil amendment must comply with the conditions of valid
WDRs or the requirements of a local (e.g., county) program authorized by a regional
water quality control board. For this project, the Discharger is required to apply for
coverage under General Order 2004-0012-DWQ. For a biosolids use project to be
authorized by General Order 2004-0012-DWQ, the Discharger must file a complete
Notice of Intent and receive a Notice of Applicability for each project.
21. This Order requires the Discharger to report any proposed change in sludge use or
disposal practice in writing to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the
change.
Sanitary Sewer Overflows
22. A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from
the sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the plant. Temporary storage and
conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks, pipes, etc.)
may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not
considered sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within
these temporary storage/conveyance facilities.
23. On 2 May 2006, the State Water Board adopted Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems, General Order No. 2006-003-DWQ (General
Order). The General Order requires all State agencies that own or operate sanitary
sewer systems greater than one mile in length to comply with the order. The
Discharger’s collection system is greater than one mile in length; therefore the General
Order is applicable. The Discharger submitted a Notice of Intent (NOI) for coverage
under the general permit to the State Water Resources Control Board in August 2008
and is covered under the General Order.
Water Recycling
24. Domestic wastewater contains pathogens harmful to humans that are typically
measured by means of total or fecal coliform, as indicator organisms. California
Department of Public Health (DPH), which has primary statewide responsibility for
protecting public health, has established statewide criteria in Title 22, California Code of
Regulations, Section 60301 et seq., (hereafter Title 22) for the use of recycled water and
has developed guidelines for specific uses. Revisions of the water recycling criteria in
Title 22 became effective on 2 December 2000. The revised Title 22 expands the range
of allowable uses of recycled water, establishes criteria for these uses, and clarifies
some of the ambiguity contained in the previous regulations.
25. A 1988 Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between DPH (then called the Department
of Health Services) and the State Water Resources Control Board on the use of
recycled water establishes basic principles relative to the agencies and the regional
water boards. Under terms of the MOA, the State Water Board implements Title 22 and
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -6-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
DPH recommendations for the protection of public health. In addition, the MOA
allocates primary areas of responsibility and authority between these agencies, and
provides for methods and mechanisms necessary to assure ongoing, continuous future
coordination of activities relative to the use of recycled water in California.
26. The effluent from the tertiary WWTF will be treated to meet the requirements for
disinfected tertiary recycled water (Title 22, Section 60301.230), and is approved for use
on food crops, including all edible root crops, where the recycled water comes into
contact with the edible portion of the crop; parks and playgrounds; school yards;
residential landscaping; unrestricted access golf courses; and any other irrigation use
specified in Title 22, Section 60304, and not prohibited by other sections of the
California Code of Regulations (CCR).
27. On 3 February 2009, the State Water Board adopted Resolution No. 2009-0011,
Adoption of a Policy for Water Quality Control for Recycled Water (Recycled Water
Policy). The Recycled Water Policy promotes the use of recycled water to achieve
sustainable local water supplies and reduce greenhouse gases.
28. On 23 April 2009, the Central Valley Water Board adopted Resolution No. R5-2009-
0028, In Support of Regionalization, Reclamation, Recycling and Conservation for
Wastewater Treatment Plant (Resolution R5-2009-0028). Resolution R5-2009-0028
encourages water recycling, water conservation, and regionalization of wastewater
treatment facilities. It requires the Discharger to document:
a) Efforts to promote new or expanded wastewater recycling opportunities and
programs;
b) Water conservation measures; and
c) Regional wastewater management opportunities and solutions (e.g., regionalization).
The Discharger will be compliant with sections a and b above because it will recycle
effluent for irrigation of crops and it implements water conservation devices such as low
flow toilets. Regionalization of the Prison’s WWTF is not applicable in this instance, as
there is not within a reasonable distance a regional plant to accept the Prison’s
discharge, and there is not one planned for the foreseeable future.
Site-Specific Conditions
29. The Tehachapi area is characterized by warm summers and cool, wet winters with
periods of snowfall. The Tehachapi area receives an annual average rainfall of just less
than 11 inches per year with the majority from November through April and there is
considerable variation in rainfall totals from year to year. Snowfall averages up to
30 inches per year at higher elevations. Snowfall on the valley floor is typically light and
quickly melts. Convective (thunderstorm) events create precipitation during summer and
fall while frontal events are dominant during the winter and spring. Rainfall intensities
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0007 -7-
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABILITATION
CALIFORNIA CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION - TEHACHAPI
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
KERN COUNTY
are greater during convective events. Intensities can reach 0.40 inches per hour,
1.2 inches per six hours, and 1.7 inches during 24 hours once every two years.
Intensities of 1.2 inches per hour, 3.0 inches per six hours, and 4.10 inches during
24 hours can be expected once in about 100 years.
30. Soils in the area of the WWTF and the Use Areas are alluvial in nature and are reported
to be up to 350 feet thick and underlain by granitic basement rocks. According to the
United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service
(USDA/NRCS) Soil Survey of Kern County (Southeastern Part, 1981), soils in the area
consist primarily of the Havala sandy loam and the Steuber sandy loam, both derived of
granitic rocks. The Havala sandy loam is described as deep, well drained, and exhibits
moderately slow permeability. The Steuber sandy loam is described as deep, well
drained, and exhibits moderately rapid permeability.
31. The WWTF, the Use Areas, and the Reclamation Areas are not within a 100-year
floodplain according to Federal Emergency Management Agency Map 06029C3225E.
Surface water drains typically to the west/southwest in the area of the Prison.
32. The Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under a National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System general industrial storm water permit because all storm water runoff
from the WWTF property is retained onsite and does not discharge to a water of the
United States.
33. The land use in the vicinity of the WWTF is primarily urban commercial (the Prison),
agricultural, native vegetation, and rural residential. The primary crops grown within five
miles of the WWTF include turf (sod farms), apples, and carrots, according to the land
use maps prepared by California Department of Water Resources (DWR). Much of the
surrounding area contains native vegetation.
Groundwater Considerations
34. WDR Order 88-035 does not require

===PLANNED CHANGES===

