expansion from 3.5 mgd to 5.0 mgd and discharge of its wastewater to land only.
The 2007 RWD water balance concludes the 36 acres of percolation ponds available at the
time provided enough storage/disposal capacity for a discharge flow of 4.69 mgd. The City
reconfigured its ponds and submitted a revised water balance in April 2009 showing that the
capacity of its now existing 37.46 acres of ponds is 5.0 mgd. The revised water balance does
not account for instances when percolation ponds are out of service for maintenance or, as
discussed in more detail below, when Ponds 4 and 5 are out of service due to high river
flows. The disposal capacity of the WWTF may be somewhat lower than 5.0 mgd so the
Order limits the discharge flow to 4.69 mgd and includes a provision requiring the Discharger
to demonstrate the WWTF has sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity before the
discharge flow limit can be increased to 5.0 mgd.
The construction of the expanded WWTF was completed in November 2009. The expanded
WWTF includes a headworks, two oxidation ditches, one anoxic basin, four secondary
clarifiers, three return sludge holding tanks, and three centrifuges.
Undisinfected secondary effluent is discharged to six percolation ponds (Ponds 1 through 5,
and 7) with a surface area of approximately 36 acres. The new oxidation ditch was
constructed on the location where Pond six was located.
Solids Management and Disposal
Historically sludge handling practices included discharging sludge to unlined sludge drying
beds; a practice that was conducted for over twenty years and has impacted shallow
groundwater. In 1996, the City changed its sludge handling practices by installing two
centrifuge units and hauling its biosolids off-site.
In 1996, the City changed its sludge handling practices by installing two centrifuge units and
hauling its sludge off-site.
In late 1997, the City excavated and then spread high nitrogen soils over the area where the
sludge storage area and sludge drying beds were. In March 1998, the City planted the area
with Eucalyptus trees in an effort to phytoremediate site soils and groundwater.
Currently, one older centrifuge unit is in use, along with two new centrifuge units that were
installed as part of the WWTF expansion. Sludge generated at the WWTF will continue to be
hauled off-site and discharged to McCarthy Family Farms Inc., near Corcoran, California, for
composting under appropriate WDRs.
The WWTF has approximately 1.5 acres of asphalt lined sludge drying beds that are only
used in case of emergency.
INFORMATION SHEET – ORDER NO. R5-2010-0120 -3-
CITY OF REEDLEY
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
Groundwater Conditions
According to information in Lines of Equal Elevation in Well in Unconfined Aquifer, published
by the Department of Water Resources in Spring 2004 regional groundwater flow
southwesterly and is found at approximately 70 feet below ground surface (bgs).
A Water-Level Elevation and Direction of Groundwater Flow Map included in the September
2007 RWD indicates that groundwater flows in a northwest direction based on groundwater
monitoring data from the 2007 third quarter

===PLANNED CHANGES===

