Wastewater Treatment Facility
5. The WWTF consists of the wastewater collection system; influent pump station; headworks
with a grinder; two extended aeration package treatment plants (Treatment Units 1 and 2)
operated in parallel followed by a third package treatment plant (Treatment Unit 3); and
three evaporation and percolation ponds (Ponds 1 through 3). Treatment Units 1 through 3
may be operated in parallel, but typical operation is described above.
6. Typically, effluent from Treatment Unit 3 is discharged to Pond 1 (0.8 acres), which
overflows into Pond 2 (0.9 acres). However, effluent from the secondary clarifiers for
Treatment Units 1 and 2 also have the capability of discharging directly to Pond 1. Pond 3
is about 8 acres and 800 feet north of Ponds 1 and 2. Pond 3 is rarely used for effluent
disposal.
7. Undisinfected secondary treated wastewater is discharged from Ponds 1 through 3 on
23-acres (Use Area) of pasture owned by the Discharger. The pasture is used for grazing
horses and non-milking cattle.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0152 -2-
INTERSTATE-5 UTILITY COMPANY WWTF
KERN COUNTY
8. The Discharger flood or spray irrigates the Use Area as necessary. The Use Area is
graded to allow excess applied effluent to flow back into Ponds 1 and 2, preventing off-site
discharges.
9. Ponds 1 through 3 and the Use Area are fenced to preclude public access. Attachment B,
which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference, depicts a general plan
view and process flow diagram of the WWTF.
10. Currently, wasted sludge from the secondary clarifier is pumped to an aerobic digester
chamber for further treatment and then pumped and hauled offsite for disposal at an
authorized facility. Historically, the Discharger dried the sludge onsite and then applied it to
areas surrounding the WWTF.
11. Fluctuations in flow occur from the variance in traffic during peak holiday and summer
travel.
12. Self-monitoring data from April 2006 to March 2007 and results from a June 2007 Regional
Water Board staff inspection characterize the discharge as follows:
Constituent/

===PLANNED CHANGES===

