waste annually, or approximately 22,000 gpd.
12. All off-site waste (i.e., septage and portable toilet waste) delivered to the WWTF is
prescreened for solid and inert material (i.e., rags, rocks, grit, etc.) using automatic
equipment or a manually racked bar screen.
13. After solids screening, off-site waste is discharged into one of two aerobic digesters via an
automatically controlled wet well utilizing a lead and lag pump system. On-site generated
liquid waste (i.e., Class II leachate, landfill gas condensate, and centrate from each
centrifuge) is pumped directly into the aerobic digesters for treatment.
14. Each digester is a complete mix system that is kept in a homogenous state by an aeration
diffuser system utilizing blowers. The aerobic process is continuous until a predetermined
volatile solids reduction, other in-house testing parameter(s) are met, or liquids need to be
WASTE DISCHARGE EQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2006-0019-001 3
EL DORADO COUNTY
UNION MINE SEPTAGE/LEACHATE TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
decanted due to digester capacity constraints. At this point, the digester aeration blower is
shut down to allow the solids and liquid to separate. Supernatant from the digesters is
decanted to the effluent storage tank using gravity or pumps depending on the wastewater
level in the effluent storage tank.
15. Digested sludge from each aerobic digester is pumped to one of two centrifuges for solids
processing. The processed solids from each centrifuge are deposited into temporary
storage bins that are transported to the on-site Class II landfill for disposal or transported
off-site to a permitted facility.
16. Effluent is stored in two two-million- gallon above ground storage tanks.
17. Disinfection is achieved by dosing the effluent stored in the effluent storage tanks or
dosing as effluent is applied to the spray-fields through chlorine contact chambers with
sodium hypochlorite or other approved disinfectant.
18. Septage, as referenced herein, is from domestic sources and is limited to (a) the solids
pumped from septic tanks, and (b) wastes from portable toilets. The solids consist of a
mixture of water, sewage solids, and microorganisms. Septage discharged by land
spreading poses a potential threat of ground or surface water pollution and can create
public nuisance conditions. For the purposes of this Order, septage does not include
restaurant or grease trap wastes, car wash pumping, or other industrial wastes.
WATER BALANCES
19. As part of the RWD, the Discharger submitted a water balance for the average annual
precipitation conditions which assumed that approximately 9,500 gpd (monthly average) of
septage and portable toilet waste, and 3,100 gpd (monthly average) of Class II leachate
and landfill gas condensate, would be treated and disposed of. The water balance
indicates that the WWTF has sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity for
average annual precipitation conditions.
20. The water balance submitted for 100-year annual precipitation conditions indicates that the
WWTF has sufficient treatment and storage capacity. The water balance for the 100-year
scenario assumes that approximately 12,440 gpd (monthly average) of septage and
portable toilet waste, and 7,560 gpd (monthly average) of Class II leachate and landfill gas
condensate are treated and disposed of. Class II leachate generation is greater during
100-year conditions because of the uncapped areas in the landfill. The Discharger
obtained a permit to discharge to the El Dorado Irrigation District (EID) Deer Creek
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP).
21. The RWD also included a third water balance which provided the flows at which the
WWTF would have sufficient disposal capacity based on 100-year annual precipitation
condition. The water balance shows that the wastewater disposal system has sufficient
WASTE DISCHARGE EQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2006-0019-001 4
EL DORADO COUNTY
UNION MINE SEPTAGE/LEACHATE TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
capacity to dispose of approximately 2,600 gpd (monthly average) of septage and portable
toilet waste, and 8,000 gpd (monthly average) of Class II leachate and landfill condensate,
or approximately 10,600 gpd in total.
WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS
22. The RWD provided data on influent characteristics of the waste. Samples of wastewater
influent (i.e., septage) and landfill gas condensate were collected on 15 March 2005, and
Class II impoundment leachate was collected on 6 February 2005. Results of the sampling
are presented below.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

