on the nominal reservoir level, as shown on Attachment A.
Groundwater from supply wells is treated in the WTP prior to distribution as a public water
supply. The WTP provides treatment by pre-chlorination, filtration and disinfection.
Calcium hypochlorite is added for pre-chlorination and for removing iron and manganese from
water supply by precipitation. A site plan and a simplified process schematic are presented in
Attachment B, and C, respectively.
During April through October from 2009 through 2011, the WTP produced approximate
monthly averages of 75,000 gallons per day (“gpd”) of treated water and 8,600 gpd of filter
backwash water. The filter backwash water is discharged to two clay-lined ponds
(ponds 1 and 2) for evaporation. During the wet season, the overflow from the ponds flows
into an unnamed creek and then into Camanche Reservoir. This surface water discharge is
regulated under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) General
Order 5-2008-0081-018 Dewatering and Other Low Threat Discharge to Surface Water (the
“General Oder”).
During the summer, the unnamed creek may occasionally have standing or slow-flowing filter
backwash water that could cause mosquito breeding. To reduce the public concerns regarding
the mosquito issues, the Discharger installed an irrigation system that redirects the discharge
from the storage ponds to irrigate the LAAs from April through October.
This Order regulates the filter backwash water discharge on the LAAs. The winter discharge
into the unnamed creek and Camanche Reservoir remains under the regulation of the General
Order.
Backwash Water Reuse
During April through October, the filter backwash water is directly conveyed to the irrigation
system at the two LAAs instead of the storage ponds. The irrigation system consists of four
2,500-gallon polyethylene tanks, two 85-gallon pressure tanks, and spray and drip control
systems. All six tanks are in series, allowing solids settling. The filter backwash water is
applied to approximately one acre of Blue Oaks Playground via a spray system and
approximately three acres of adjacent campground area via a drip system. To prevent
irrigation runoff from the playground entering the reservoir, an earthen berm was installed
INFORMATION SHEET 2
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2012-0023
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT
CAMANCHE NORTH SHORE RECREATION AREA
WATER TREATMENT PLANT LAND APPLICATION
AMADOR COUNTY
along a portion of the playground, as shown on Attachment B. The drip system will not
generate tailwater, so that area is not bermed. The irrigation system process schematic is
shown on Attachment C.
The Discharger started to operate the filter backwash water irrigation system in June 2011.
The average irrigation rate is approximately 6,400 gpd during the summer months in 2011.
The Discharger provided two sets of data for the filter backwash water that is discharged to the
LAAs. The filter backwash water has average concentrations of 506 μg/L for total iron and
1,550 μg/L for total manganese. The dissolved iron and manganese concentrations in the
filter backwash water are non-detected and 1.15 μg/L, respectively, which are much lower than
the secondary MCL of 300 μg/L for iron and the primary MCL of 50 μg/L for manganese.
This indicates that the dominant forms of iron and manganese in the filter backwash water are
in solid form, which is unlikely to migrate through the soil and impact groundwater.
The December 2011 RWD Amendment indicates that the monthly average agronomic
irrigation rate for the LAAs is approximately 7,800 gpd from April through October, which is
approximately 91 percent of the monthly average backwash water production of 8,600 gpd
during the same period; the monthly maximum agronomic irrigation rate is approximately
10,000 gpd. The excess backwash water is diverted to the two storage ponds for percolation
and evaporation. The Discharger stated that no overflow from the storage ponds was
discharged into the unnamed creek during the summer months in 2011 and that mosquito
issues have been resolved.
Groundwater Conditions
There are no

===PLANNED CHANGES===

