dissolved oxygen (DO) content in the upper one foot of any of the two
wastewater storage ponds shall not be less than 1.0 mg/L for three
consecutive sampling events, unless it can be demonstrated to the Central
Valley Water Board staff’s satisfaction that concentrations less than the
1.0 mg/L concentration will not result in the generation of nuisance odors
or vectors. Notwithstanding the DO monitoring frequency specified in the
monitoring and reporting program, If DO in any single pond is below 1.0
mg/L for any single sampling event, the Discharger shall implement daily
DO monitoring of that pond until the minimum DO concentration is
achieved for at least three consecutive days. If DO in any single pond is
below 1.0 mg/L for three consecutive days, the Discharger shall report the
findings to the Regional Water Board in accordance with General
Reporting Requirement B.1 of the Standard Provisions and Reporting
Requirements. The written notification shall include a specific plan to
resolve the low DO results within 30 days of the first date of violation. DO
levels in the three treatment ponds shall be maintained at a level that will
not cause nuisance odors or 1.0 mg/L.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0008 17
CITY OF BIGGS
CITY OF BIGGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
9. The Discharger shall design, construct, operate, and maintain all ponds
sufficiently to protect the integrity of containment dams and berms and
prevent overtopping and/or structural failure. The operating freeboard in
any pond shall never be less than two feet (measured vertically from the
lowest possible point of overflow). As a means of management and to
discern compliance with this requirement, the Discharger shall install and
maintain in each pond a permanent staff gauge with calibration marks that
clearly show the water level at design capacity and enable determination
of available operational freeboard.
10. Wastewater treatment, storage, and disposal ponds or structures shall
have sufficient capacity to accommodate allowable wastewater flow,
design seasonal precipitation, and ancillary inflow and infiltration during
the winter while ensuring compliance with all requirements of this Order.
Design seasonal precipitation shall be based on total annual precipitation
using a return period of 100 years, distributed monthly in accordance with
historical rainfall patterns.
11. On or about 1 October of each year, available capacity shall at least
equal the volume necessary to comply with Discharge Specifications E.10.
12. All ponds and open containment structures shall be managed to prevent
breeding of mosquitoes.
13. An erosion control program shall be implemented to ensure that small
coves and irregularities are not created around the perimeter of the water
surface.
14. Weeds shall be minimized through control of water depth, harvesting, or
herbicides.
15. Dead algae, vegetation, and debris shall not accumulate on the water
surface.
16. The Discharger shall consult and coordinate with the local Mosquito
Abatement District to minimize the potential for mosquito breeding as
needed to supplement the above measures.
17. Newly constructed or rehabilitated berms or levees (excluding internal
berms that separate ponds or control the flow of water within a pond) shall
be designed and constructed under the supervision of a California
Registered Civil Engineer.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0008 18
CITY OF BIGGS
CITY OF BIGGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
18. The Discharger shall monitor sludge accumulation in the wastewater
treatment/storage ponds at least every five years beginning in 2025 and
shall periodically remove sludge as necessary to maintain adequate
storage capacity. The Discharger’s engineer recommends that a
maximum of twenty percent of the estimated volume in the reservoir is
sufficient to maintain adequate storage capacity and hydraulic retention
time. If the estimated volume of sludge in the reservoir exceeds twenty
percent of the permitted reservoir capacity, the Discharger shall complete
sludge cleanout within 12 months after the date of the estimate.
E. Groundwater Limitations
1. All compliance monitoring wells, MW-3, MW-4, MW-5, and MW-6, shall
not exceed a total coliform organism level of 2.2 most probable
number/100 milliliter over any seven-day period.
2. All compliance monitoring wells shall not contain constituents in
concentrations statistically greater than current background water quality
or that exceed the Primary or Secondary MCLs established in Title 22 of
the California Code of Regulations, whichever is greater.
3. All compliance monitoring wells shall not contain taste or odor-producing
constituents, toxic substances, or any other constituents in concentrations
that cause nuisance or adversely affect beneficial uses.
F. Land Application Area Specifications
1. Tailwater runoff and spray of wastewater shall not be discharged outside
of the LAAs.
2. Vegetation (which may include fodder crops) shall be grown in the LAA.
3. Land application of wastewater shall be managed to minimize erosion
within the LAAs.
4. The LAAs shall be managed to prevent breeding of mosquitoes or other
vectors.
5. LAAs shall be designed, maintained, and operated to comply with the
following setback requirements:
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0008 19
CITY OF BIGGS
CITY OF BIGGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
Table 9— Land Application Area Setback Requirements
Setback Definition Minimum Irrigation Setback
Edge of use area to property boundary 25-feet
Edge of use area to public road right of way 30-feet
Edge of use area to manmade or natural
25-feet
surface water drainage
Edge of use area to domestic water supply
100-feet
well
6. Irrigation of the LAAs shall occur only when appropriately trained
personnel are on duty.
7. LAAs shall be inspected periodically to determine compliance with the
requirements of this Order. If an inspection reveals noncompliance or
threat of noncompliance with this Order, the Discharger shall temporarily
stop recycled water use immediately and implement corrective actions to
ensure compliance with this Order.
8. Spray irrigation with wastewater is prohibited when wind speed (including
gusts) exceeds 30 mph.
9. Sprinkler heads shall be designed, operated and maintained to create a
minimum amount of mist.
10. Discharge of storm water runoff from the LAAs to off-site land or surface
water drainage courses is prohibited.
11. Public contact with wastewater at the LAAs shall be controlled using
fences, signs, and other appropriate means.
G. Solids Disposal Specifications
1. Sludge, as used in this document, means the solid, semisolid, and liquid
residues removed during primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater
treatment processes. Solid waste refers to grit and screenings generated
during preliminary treatment. Residual sludge means sludge that will not
be subject to further treatment at the WWTF. Biosolids refers to sludge
that has been treated and tested and shown to be capable of being
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0008 20
CITY OF BIGGS
CITY OF BIGGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
beneficially used as a soil amendment for agriculture, silviculture,
horticulture, and land reclamation activities pursuant to federal and state
regulations.
2. Sludge and solid waste shall be removed from screens, sumps, ponds,
and clarifiers as needed to ensure optimal plant operation.
3. Any handling and storage of residual sludge, solid waste, and biosolids at
the WWTF shall be temporary (i.e., no longer than six months) and
controlled and contained in a manner that minimizes leachate formation
and precludes infiltration of waste constituents into soils in a mass or
concentration that will violate the groundwater limitations of this Order.
4. Residual sludge, biosolids, and solid waste shall be disposed of in a
manner approved by the Executive Officer and consistent with Title 27,
division 2. Removal for further treatment, disposal, or reuse at disposal
sites (i.e., landfills, WWTFs, composting sites, soil amendment sites)
operated in accordance with valid waste discharge requirements issued by
a Regional Water Board will satisfy this specification.
5. Use of biosolids as a soil amendment shall comply with valid waste
discharge requirements issued by a regional water board or the State
Water Board except in cases where a local (e.g., county) program has
been authorized by a regional water board. In most cases, this will mean
the General Biosolids Order (State Water Resources Control Board Water
Quality Order 2004-0012-DWQ, “General Waste Discharge Requirements
for the Discharge of Biosolids to Land for Use as a Soil Amendment in
Agricultural, Silvicultural, Horticultural, and Land Reclamation Activities”).
For a biosolids use project to be covered by Order 2004-0012-DWQ, the
Discharger must file a complete Notice of Intent and receive a Notice of
Applicability for each project.
6. Use and disposal of biosolids shall comply with the self-implementing
federal regulations of 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 503, which are
subject to enforcement by the U.S. EPA, not the Central Valley Water
Board. If during the life of this Order, the State accepts primacy for
implementation of part 503, the Central Valley Water Board may also
initiate enforcement where appropriate.
7. Any proposed change in sludge use or disposal practice shall be reported
in writing to the Executive Officer at least 90 days in advance of the
change.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2020-0008 21
CITY OF BIGGS
CITY OF BIGGS WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
BUTTE COUNTY
H. Provisions
1. The following reports shall be submitted pursuant to Water Code section
13267 and shall be prepared as described in Provision L.5:
a. Within six months of the adoption of this Order the Discharger shall
submit a Groundwater Limitations Compliance Assessment Plan.
The Plan shall propose and justify the values to be used to
determine “current

===PLANNED CHANGES===

