Existing Wastewater Treatment Facility
6. The existing WWTF consists of three lift stations (one with headworks), an unlined aerated
pond (Pond 1), two sedimentation ponds (Ponds 2 and 3), and three evaporation and
percolation ponds (Ponds 4 through 6). Attachment C of this Order, which is attached
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0100 -2-
CITY OF SAN JOAQUIN WWTF
FRESNO COUNTY
hereto and made part of this Order by reference, depicts a process flow diagram of the
existing WWTF.
7. The WWTF’s collection system is composed of 10 miles of gravity sewer lines, about
one-half mile of 8-inch force main and two lift stations, which converge to a terminal lift
station at Manning Avenue. The headworks is contained at the Manning lift station and
consists of a 3-inch Parshall flume and a manually-cleaned bar screen immediately
upstream of the lift station. Effluent is pumped from the Manning lift station to the WWTF
one half mile to the west.
8. Wastewater from the Manning lift station is discharged to Pond 1. Pond 1 is approximately
6 ft deep with one foot of freeboard, has a total volume of 20.9 acre-ft and an average
residence time of about 25 days. Aeration is provided by two 5 horsepower surface
aerators operated on timers. Wastewater from Pond 1 is discharged through a splitter box
into Ponds 2 and 3, which are operated in series. Ponds 2 and 3 are about 6 ft deep, and
have a combined wastewater volume of 50 acre-ft. These ponds are above the initial clay
layer, which helps restrict percolation.
9. Effluent from Ponds 2 and 3 discharge to evaporation/percolation Ponds 4, 5 and 6
(disposal ponds). The disposal ponds are about 12 feet deep each and have combined
surface area and effluent storage capacity of about 13.3 acres and 155.3 acre-ft,
respectively. These ponds are below the existing first encountered clay layer to enhance
percolation. The Discharger also uses a borrow pit for emergency storage to provide
additional capacity during heavy rainfall. The borrow pit will later be converted to a
permanent disposal pond.
10. The Discharger currently disposes of sludge onsite by draining and drying the ponds and
discing the residual sludge into soils underlying the ponds. City staff do not know the last
time sludge was removed from the aeration pond.
11. Self-monitoring reports from 2006 indicate that winter flows are not higher than summer
flows, demonstrating insignificant inflow and infiltration to the collection system during
winter months.
12. Self-monitoring data from January 2006 to December 2006 characterize the discharge as
follows:
Constituent/

===PLANNED CHANGES===

