contribute to an in-stream excursion above a water quality standard for
aluminum, ammonia, chlorine residual, copper, lead, nitrate plus nitrite,
settleable solids, and total coliform organisms. WQBEL’s for these
constituents are included in this Order. A summary of the RPA is provided
in Attachment G, and a detailed discussion of the RPA for each
constituent is provided below.
i. Aluminum
(a) WQO. DDW has established Secondary MCL’s to assist public
drinking water systems in managing their drinking water for
public welfare considerations, such as taste, color, and odor.
The Secondary MCL for aluminum is 200 µg/L for protection of
the MUN beneficial use. Title 22 requires compliance with
Secondary MCL’s on an annual average basis.
Aluminum is the third most abundant element in the earth’s
crust and is ubiquitous in both soils and aquatic sediments.
When mobilized in surface waters, aluminum has been shown
to be toxic to various fish species. However, the potential for
aluminum toxicity in surface waters is directly related to the
chemical form of aluminum present, and the chemical form is
highly dependent on water quality characteristics that ultimately
determine the mechanism of aluminum toxicity. Surface water
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-40
BEAR VALLEY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R5-2022-0037
BEAR VALLEY WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0085146
characteristics, including pH, temperature, colloidal material,
fluoride and sulfate concentrations, and dissolved organic
carbon, all influence aluminum speciation and its subsequent
bioavailability to aquatic life.
The 2018 U.S. EPA NAWQC for protection of freshwater
aquatic life for aluminum recommends acute (1-hour average;
criteria maximum concentration or CMC) and chronic (4-day
average; criteria continuous concentration or CCC) standards
based upon Multiple Linear Regression (MLR) models for
vertebrate and invertebrate species that use pH, dissolved
organic carbon (DOC), and total hardness to quantify the effects
of these water chemistry parameters on the bioavailability and
resultant toxicity of aluminum to aquatic organisms. The
2018 Aluminum NAWQC document provides look up tables or a
Microsoft Excel spreadsheet to calculate the criteria based on
pH, DOC, and total hardness. The U.S. EPA aluminum criteria
have been used to implement the Basin Plan’s narrative toxicity
objective.
A site-specific CMC of 210 µg/L and CCC of 120 µg/L were
calculated considering pH, hardness, and DOC representative
of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

