2. Old Plant data represents 4 June 2014 – 13 January 2017
12. The WCP will produce two categories of recycled water, Type 1 and Type 2 Discharge. Type 1
Discharge is disinfected tertiary-treated recycled water, which will be produced and discharged
during normal operations. Type 2 Discharge is, at least, undisinfected secondary-treated
recycled water. The City is only authorized to produce and discharge Type 2 Discharge in the
event of a malfunction or planned maintenance of the UV disinfection system. Provision H.20
limits the duration the Discharger may discharge Type 2 Discharge and requires the City of
Visalia to inform Central Valley Water Board staff in the event of a Type 2 Discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2018-0046 -3-
CITY OF VISALIA
WATER CONSERVATION PLANT
TULARE COUNTY
13. Primary sludge is fed to seven primary digesters. Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) is processed
through two 2-meter gravity belt thickeners; thickened WAS is then partially processed by a
sludge disintegrator then fed into primary digestion tanks 3-7. Digested sludge from the seven
primary digesters is then fed into the eighth digester for secondary digestion. Digested sludge is
pumped from the secondary digester and dewatered by 2 screw presses. Dewatered sludge is
applied to a 9-acre asphaltic-lined drying and stockpiling area for further drying and storage.
Biosolids are removed by a permitted contractor and disposed of by either land application at an
approved facility or landfill cover at an approved landfill.
14. In February 2017, the City submitted a report titled General Order Notice of Intent for Disinfected
Tertiary Reuse for State Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order
WQ 2016-0068-DDW Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use (NOI). The NOI
contained a water balance for the initial requested flow rate of 18 mgd and the buildout flow rate
of 22 mgd. The water balance shows that with the proposed reclamation area expansion that the
City has enough disposal and reclamation capacity to accommodate flows up to 22 mgd. Table 3
below describes the proposed disposal and reclamation areas.
Table 3—Discharge Locations
Description Acreage/Storage
City farmland 996 acres
On-site Pond 2 84 acre-feet
On-site Pond 3 304 acre-feet
City-owned Basin No. 4 1,287 acre-feet
Potential contracted land 2,525 acres
Tulare Irrigation District (TID) 10,700 acres
City-owned farmland near the airport 664 acres
Landscape Reuse 253 acres
Industrial Discharge Pretreatment
15. Industrial discharges to publicly-owned wastewater treatment facilities can cause one or more of
the following problems if not adequately controlled:
a. Interference or upset. Discharges of high volumes or concentrations of certain pollutants can
inhibit or interfere with the proper operation of the WCP, causing it to do an inadequate job of
treating wastes. As a result, the facility could be prevented from meeting its permit
requirements.
b. Sludge Management. Industrial pollutants, particularly metals and other toxic pollutants, can
limit the sludge management alternatives available to the Discharger and increase the cost of
sludge management and disposal. Additionally, biosolids contaminated with toxic pollutants
could be rendered unsuitable for use as a soil amendment.
c. Pass-through. Some industrial pollutants may not receive adequate treatment and pass
through the treatment system in concentrations that could unreasonably degrade

===PLANNED CHANGES===

