replace the influent flow meter so influent flows can be measured.
9. After screening, influent is routed into one of two equalization basins and/or an emergency
storage basin (when needed) prior to being pumped into the treatment process. The main
function of the equalization storage basins is to allow a portion of peak flows to be stored
and then treated after flows subside. This allows the treatment process to be more reliable
under peak flows. If Equalization Basin No. 1 becomes filled and there is need to store
additional screened wastewater, then excess flow (influent flow minus flow to the MBR) is
pumped from Equalization Basin No. 1 to Equalization Basin No. 2. If Equalization Basin
No. 2 is filled and excess flows continue, Equalization Basin No. 2 overflows into
Emergency Storage Basin No. 1. Equalization Basins Nos. 1 and 2, and the Emergency
Storage Basin are closed (i.e., covered) hydraulic structures and are designed to provide
one foot of freeboard. The equalization basins and storage basin sizes are as follows:
Basin Storage Volume (gallons)
Equalization Basin No. 1 60,000
Equalization Basin No. 2 140,000
Emergency Storage Basin No. 1 65,000
10. Prior to wastewater being pumped from Equalization Basin No. 1 into the MBR treatment
process, wastewater flows into four Anoxic Basins where it is denitrified. Each Anoxic
Basin is concrete lined and has a storage capacity of approximately 12,850 gallons.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0125 -3-
KIRKWOOD PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ALPINE AND AMADOR COUNTIES
“Alum” (i.e., the coagulant aluminum sulfate) and caustics are then added to the
wastewater to remove phosphorus.
11. After wastewater is denitrified and phosphorus removed, it is conveyed into the MBR
treatment process, which includes two aeration basins, recirculation pumps, two
membrane basins, and membrane filtration facilities.
12. Disinfection is performed by the addition of sodium hypochlorite to the MBR effluent.
Duplex sodium hypochlorite feed units are used for redundancy. A 38,400-gallon chlorine
contact basin is used to maximize contact time.
13. Besides emergency storage provisions, the WWTP incorporates many features that
provide a high degree of reliability. All key mechanical equipment systems are provided
with redundant standby units so that treatment can proceed at full capacity even when a
piece of equipment fails. All pumping and aeration blowers have redundant units. The
treatment system also includes multiple process basins so that treatment can continue if a
basin is taken out of service for any reason. The KMPUD generates its own electrical
power with onsite diesel generators. There are three normal power generators and one
backup emergency generator. Only two of the four generators are needed to serve all key
demands of the treatment facility at design capacity.
14. Disinfected wastewater is pumped via an effluent pump station to the effluent disposal
system. The current effluent disposal system consists of approximately 3,040 linear feet of
pressure-dosed leachline, which is divided among eight leachfields (leachfields 1 through
6, 10, and 10a) as shown on Attachment C and is attached hereto and made part of this
Order by reference. The Discharger plans to abandon leachfields 5 and 6, and replace
those with leachfields 7, 8 and 9 (installed in 2006), resulting in approximately 3,000 linear
feet of disposal piping. The depth of the disposal trenches ranges from approximately four
to six feet below ground surface. The Discharger’s RWD indicates that effluent disposal
system is designed to dispose of a monthly average flow of 190,000 gpd and a peak daily
flow of 429,000 gallons.
15. In 1983, permeability testing of the soil in the area of current disposal system was
conducted. Results of the testing indicate that the percolation rates ranged from
approximately 2.2 to 11.4 inches per minute.
16. In March 2004, a hydrogeologic investigation of the effluent disposal system area was
performed to determine whether the disposal system has enough hydraulic disposal
capacity to accept a monthly average flow of 190,000 gpd. Results of the investigation
indicate that the disposal system has sufficient disposal capacity, and that groundwater
levels would rise to a maximum of two feet below the bottom of the disposal trenches.
17. Monitoring of wastewater depth in absorption bed disposal trenches can aid in estimating
the condition of the effluent disposal system and in adjusting distribution of wastewater
within the disposal system. Each individual absorption bed lateral has a monitoring port
that terminates at the bottom of the gravel bed within the disposal trenches. The
monitoring ports are equipped with a transducer that measures the water pressure in the
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2007-0125 -4-
KIRKWOOD PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
ALPINE AND AMADOR COUNTIES
disposal trenches, and the data is transmitted back to a receiving unit at the WWTP.
Water level measurement data is reviewed by WWTP staff on a daily basis to ensure that
the wastewater disposal system is working correctly and overflows (due to hydraulic
overloading) do not occur.
18. Waste sludge from the MBR treatment process is accumulated and partially digested in an
aerated solids holding tank. Sludge from the holding tank is dewatered using a centrifuge.
The dewatered sludge is disposed of at an off-site landfill by a commercial hauling service.
Chemical Constituents
19. Potable water for the community of Kirkwood Meadows and the Kirkwood Ski Resort is
supplied by four groundwater supply wells. KMPUD provided potable water quality data for
the year 2005, which is presented in the table below:

===PLANNED CHANGES===

