waste annually, or approximately 22,000 gallons per day (gpd).
12. All off site waste (i.e., septage and portable toilet waste) delivered to the WWTF is prescreened
for solid and inert material (i.e., rags, rocks, grit, etc.) using automatic equipment or a manually
racked bar screen.
13. After solids screening, off site waste is discharged into one of two aerobic digesters via an
automatically controlled wet well utilizing a lead and lag pump system. On-site generated liquid
waste (i.e., Class II leachate, landfill gas condensate, and centrate from each centrifuge) is
pumped directly into the aerobic digesters for treatment.
14. Each digester is a complete mix system that is kept in a homogenous state by an aeration diffuser
system utilizing blowers. The aerobic process is continuous until a predetermined volatile solids
reduction, other in-house testing parameter(s) are met, or liquids need to be decanted due to
digester capacity constraints. At this point, the digester aeration blower is shut down to allow the
solids and liquid to separate. Liquid from the digesters is transferred to the effluent storage tank.
Supernatant from the digesters is decanted to the effluent storage tank using gravity or pumps
depending on the wastewater level in the effluent storage tank.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2006-0019 -3-
EL DORADO COUNTY
UNION MINE SEPTAGE/LEACHATE TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
15. Digested sludge from each aerobic digester is pumped to one of two centrifuges for solids
processing. The processed solids from each centrifuge are deposited into temporary storage bins
that are transported to the on-site Class II landfill for disposal.
16. Effluent is stored in a two million gallon above ground storage tank. The RWD indicates that the
Discharger will install an addition two million gallon above ground storage tank in order to have
sufficient effluent storage capacity. The RWD states that the additional storage tank will be
installed by January 2006.
17. Disinfection is achieved by dosing the effluent stored in the effluent storage tanks with sodium
hypochlorite.
18. Septage, as referenced herein, is from domestic sources and is limited to (a) the solids pumped
from septic tanks, and (b) wastes from portable toilets. The solids consist of a mixture of water,
sewage solids, and microorganisms. Septage discharged by land spreading poses a potential
threat of ground or surface water pollution and can create public nuisance conditions. For the
purposes of this Order, septage does not include restaurant or grease trap wastes, car wash
pumpings, or other industrial wastes.
WATER BALANCES
19. As part of the RWD, the Discharger submitted a water balance for the average annual
precipitation conditions which assumed that approximately 9,500 gpd (monthly average) of
septage and portable toilet waste, and 3,100 gpd (monthly average) of Class II leachate and
landfill gas condensate, would be treated and disposed of. The water balance indicates that the
WWTF has sufficient treatment, storage, and disposal capacity for average annual precipitation
conditions.
20. The water balance submitted for 100 year annual precipitation conditions indicates that the
WWTF has sufficient treatment and storage capacity provided that the Discharger install
two million gallons of additional storage capacity. The water balance for the 100-year scenario
assumes that approximately 9,500 gpd (monthly average) of septage and portable toilet waste,
and 6,500 gpd (monthly average) of Class II leachate and landfill gas condensate will be treated
and disposed of. Class II leachate generation is greater during 100 year conditions because of the
uncapped areas in the landfill. However, the water balance indicates that the WWTF does not
have sufficient disposal capacity based on 100-year annual precipitation conditions, and it
appears that there would be approximately 2.5 million gallons of effluent surplus requiring
disposal. The RWD states that the Discharger is working with the El Dorado Irrigation District
(EID) to obtain a permit to discharge the surplus to the EID Deer Creek wastewater treatment
plant. As of the date of this Order, no permit between the Discharger and EID is in place.
21. The RWD also included a third water balance which provided the flows at which the WWTF
would have sufficient disposal capacity based on 100-year annual precipitation condition. The
water balance shows that the wastewater disposal system has sufficient capacity to dispose of
approximately 2,600 gpd (monthly average) of septage and portable toilet waste, and 8,000 gpd
(monthly average) of Class II leachate and landfill condensate, or approximately 10,600 gpd in
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2006-0019 -4-
EL DORADO COUNTY
UNION MINE SEPTAGE/LEACHATE TREATMENT FACILITY
EL DORADO COUNTY
total. Therefore, this Order limits the monthly average influent flows to 10,500 gpd. However, if
the Discharger obtains a permit to discharge wastewater to the EID Deer Creek WWTP, then the
Discharger may submit a report (as described in Provision G.1.a) to the Executive Officer, and
upon approval, the Executive Officer may increase the flow limit up to the calculated disposal
capacity. In no case shall the flow exceed 16,000 gpd.
22. During a 19 September 2005 inspection of the WWTF, staff noted excessive vegetation growth
on the water surface within the effluent storage tank. Excessive vegetation can reduce the
amount of storage capacity within the effluent storage tank, and can cause nuisance conditions.
This Order requires the Discharge to remove the vegetation growth within the storage tank.
WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS
23. The RWD provided data on influent characteristics of the waste. Samples of wastewater influent
(i.e., septage) and landfill gas condensate were collected on 15 March 2005, and Class II
impoundment leachate was collected on 6 February 2005. Results of the sampling are presented
below.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

