finishes the project.
9. The wastewater treatment and disposal facilities consist of headworks, an aeration
basin with two integral clarifiers, a storage lagoon, a sludge lagoon, emergency Ponds
1 and 2, an effluent storage reservoir (Grinding Rock Reservoir) and land application
areas (LAAs) at the Ranch. General site plans for the WWTP and the LAAs at the
Ranch, and a process flow diagram are depicted on Attachments B, C, and D
(incorporated herein), respectively.
10. The wastewater treatment basins, storage ponds and reservoir are summarized as
follows:
Surface Depth Capacity
Name Function Liner
Area (ft2) (ft.) (MG)1
Activated Sludge
Aeration Basin 13,300 15 1.14 Concrete
Treatment
Storage Lagoon Emergency Storage 11,000 13 0.62 Concrete
Sludge Lagoon Storage 10,000 12.5 0.5 Concrete
Storage Pond 1 Emergency Storage 13,500 10 0.23 Unlined
Storage Pond 2 Emergency Storage 9,000 5 0.2 Unlined
Grinding Rock
Effluent Storage 640,000 26 98.7 Unlined
Reservoir
1. Based on two feet of freeboard.
Pond 1 is divided into two sections with a non-engineered earthen dam. Ponds 1 and
2 are used as temporary overflow containment facilities for raw and partially treated
wastewater.
11. Undisinfected secondary treated effluent is discharged from the WWTP to Grinding
Rock Reservoir to irrigate pasture land for non dairy animals during the irrigation
season. Grinding Rock Reservoir is owned and operated by TCSD and located
approximately one mile south of the WWTP. D-uring the irrigation season, direct
diversions from the effluent pipelines (without going through the reservoir) are also
utilized to flood irrigate a portion of the LAAs near the location of groundwater
monitoring well DG-2.
12. There are approximately 114 acres of LAAs, of which about 13 acres are flood-
irrigated, and about 101 acres irrigated by sprinklers. The Ranch owns and maintains
the sprinkler irrigation system. Based on the current level of effluent flow, the total
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2019-0058 4
JOHN BAKER, LAURA BAKER, DENNIS BAKER AND ETHEL BAKER
BAKER RANCH
TUOLUMNE CITY SANITARY DIST.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
TUOLUMNE COUNTY
volume of the treated wastewater does not meet the irrigation demand. From April to
September, the Ranch uses the Grinding Rock Reservoir to stabilize supplemental
water from Turnback Creek, which is adjacent to the LAAs and the reservoir as
shown on Attachment C. The treated effluent blended with supplemental water is
applied to the LAAs during irrigation season.
13. The LAAs do not have a tailwater/runoff control collection system to prevent
undisinfected secondary wastewater runoff from entering the surface water.
TCSD proposed to install the tailwater collection/runoff control system in 2020-2021
when SRF grant funding is available. This Order requires TCSD to submit a
Tailwater/Runoff Control Workplan and a completion report after TCSD finishes this
project.
14. The WWTP does not have sludge processing facilities. The headworks screenings
and grit accumulated in the aeration basin are disposed to an approved
reuse/disposal site. Waste sludge from the clarifiers flows by gravity to the concrete
lined Sludge Lagoon. Daily sludge wasting rates range between 130 to 200 lbs.
Waste sludge in the Sludge Lagoon is scheduled to be removed off-site every three
to four years. The RWD states that the last sludge removal occurred in July 2016
when approximately 75 dry tons of sludge was hauled offsite via a mobile dewatering
truck by Synagro Inc. Decant water was returned to the headworks via a leachate
return pipe from the Sludge Lagoon.
15. Influent and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

