can also be retrofitted with a dedicated generator if required.
31. In case of a power outage and pump failure, a sewer overflow pipeline will convey raw
wastewater by gravity to Ponds 5 and 6 for emergency storage and to prevent a
wastewater spill. The auto-dialer will notify the operator on call who will power the pumps
with a portable generator as soon as possible. Additionally, any wastewater bypassed to
Ponds 5 or 6 will be pumped to Pond 1 with a portable pump.
32. Flow volumes will be monitored using a magnetic flow meter installed after the wet well and
prior to the P/E ponds.
33. The RWD describes planned pond rehabilitation that includes: (1) removal of sludge from
Ponds 1 through 4, (2) replacing valve and overflow structures, (3) repairing of the berm
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002 8
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT
BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
between Ponds 3 and 4, (4) repairing and reshaping of pond berms as needed, (5) placing
broken concrete on portions of pond berms to prevent erosion, and (6) replacing transfer
piping to allow greater flexibility in pond operation as described below.
34. Ponds 1 through 4 will be fitted with new flow transfer piping that will allow the pond system
to be operated in series or parallel. The WWTF is anticipated to be primarily operated in
the series configuration with wastewater from the headworks flowing into Pond 1 and then
into Pond 3, 4 and 2, consecutively. Wastewater from Pond 3 will be able to flow to either
Pond 5 or Pond 6 as needed for additional storage capacity. Additionally, wastewater from
Pond 2 will be pumped to the land application area as needed. A wastewater diagram for
the series configuration is shown on Attachment C, which is attached hereto and made part
of this Order by reference.
35. The flow between ponds will switch to the parallel configuration during a time of high BOD
load and low temperatures such that Pond 1 would not be able to meet the dissolved
oxygen requirement of 1 mg/L. In parallel mode, the BOD load would be split between
Pond 1 and 2 to obtain a greater surface area for oxygen transfer. Wastewater from Pond
1 will flow to Pond 3 and wastewater from Pond 2 will flow to Pond 4. Wastewater from
either Pond 3 or Pond 4 will be able to flow to either Pond 5 or Pond 6 as necessary for
storage and disposal. Wastewater from Pond 2 will not be discharged to the land
application area for a period of 30 days after converting from parallel to series
configuration.
Existing Wastewater Collection System and Planned Improvements
36. The collection system consists of about 12,000 feet of 6-, 8-, and10-inch sewer mains with
about 10,500 feet owned by Byron Sanitary District. The collection system is primarily
constructed of vitrified clay pipe (approximately 76%) with the remaining being a mixture of
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and steel pipe. The 2007 flow data do not show a significant
amount of I/I during the rainy winter months. However, the discharger states that the
greatest I/I occurs during August as a result of irrigation from an alfalfa field immediately
west of the facility.
37. The sanitary sewer system collects wastewater and consists of sewer pipes, manholes,
and/or other conveyance system elements that direct raw sewage to the treatment facility.
A “sanitary sewer overflow” is defined as a discharge to ground or surface water from the
sanitary sewer system at any point upstream of the treatment facility. Temporary storage
and conveyance facilities (such as wet wells, regulated impoundments, tanks, highlines,
etc.) may be part of a sanitary sewer system and discharges to these facilities are not
considered sanitary sewer overflows, provided that the waste is fully contained within these
temporary storage/conveyance facilities. Sanitary sewer overflow is also defined in State
Water Resources Control Board (State Water Board) Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ,
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems. The
Internet web location for State Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ is:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/resdec/wqorders/2006/wqo/wqo2006_0003.pdf.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002 9
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT
BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
38. Sanitary sewer overflows consist of varying mixtures of domestic and commercial
wastewater, depending on land uses in the sewage collection system. The chief causes of
sanitary sewer overflows include grease blockages, root blockages, debris blockages,
sewer line flood damage, manhole structure failures, vandalism, pump station mechanical
failures, power outages, storm or groundwater inflow/infiltration, lack of capacity, and/or
contractor caused blockages.
39. Sanitary sewer overflows often contain high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic
organisms, toxic pollutants, nutrients, oxygen demanding organic compounds, oil and
grease, and other pollutants. Sanitary sewer overflows can cause temporary exceedance of
applicable water quality objectives, pose a threat to public health, adversely affect aquatic
life, and impair the public recreational use and aesthetic enjoyment of surface waters in the
area.
40. The Discharger shall take all necessary steps to adequately maintain, operate, and prevent
discharges from its sanitary sewer collection system. The RWD states that the Discharger
will improve the wastewater collection system by removing accumulated sand and gravel,
install intermediate manholes in pipe runs exceeding 400 feet, and bring buried manholes
to grade. The Discharger has plans to repair the main line along Camino Diablo Road,
which is expected to significantly decrease I/I associated with the adjacent alfalfa field
irrigation.
41. The Discharger has submitted a Notice of Intent to apply for coverage under State Water
Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ. The discharger has completed the Development Plan
and Schedule and Sanitary Sewer Management Plan (SSMP) Sections I, II, III and VI. This
Order requires the Discharger to complete and implement the SSMP consistent with State
Water Board Order No. 2006-0003-DWQ and to comply with that Order and its General
WDRs Monitoring and Reporting Program (Water Quality Order No. 2008-0002-EXEC).
Site-Specific Conditions
42. The WWTF site is at an elevation approximately at 10 feet mean sea level (MSL), and the
area is relatively flat with drainage west to east. Surface water drainage is to Sacramento
San Joaquin Delta collected through agricultural drains and Fisk Creek.
43. Annual precipitation in the vicinity averages approximately 13.35 inches. The 100-year
total annual precipitation is approximately 22.2 inches. The mean evapotranspiration rate
is approximately 55.21 inches per year.
44. The P/E ponds and the land disposal area are within the 100-year flood plain. However,
the ponds and land disposal area are protected from inundation by their perimeter levee.
45. Based on the Natural National Resource Conservation Service soil survey, the soils
underlying the WWTF consist of Marcuse Clay.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2009-0002 10
BYRON SANITARY DISTRICT
BYRON WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
46. Published infiltration rates for the soils range from 0.06 to 0.20 in/hr (0.12 to 0.40 feet per
day).
47. The WWTF is adjacent to an agriculture field, a seasonal wetlands, and Fisk Creek, which
is also seasonal. Fisk Creek provides irrigation drainage and flows north into Discovery
Bay and eventually into the Sacramento San Joaquin Delta. Fisk Creek has historically had
beaver dams that cause inundation of both the wetlands adjacent to the land application
area and the stormwater drainage ditch along Camino Diablo Road during the wet season.
During a site visit, the discharger stated that the beaver dam had been removed.
Additionally, in 2008, the discharger fixed a culvert along Camino Diablo Road and Fisk
Creek that was prone to blockage that also caused inundation of the wetlands and
stormwater drainage ditch. The removal of the beaver dam and fixing the culvert are
expected to minimize further inundation.
Groundwater Considerations
48. The RWD states that, the typical depth to groundwater underlying the WWTF is five feet
below ground surface. Groundwater levels are usually one foot or more below the P/E
pond bottoms but

===PLANNED CHANGES===

