A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Discharger completed construction of Facility upgrades during the last permit
term. The upgraded Facility is operational as of October 2022 and consists of the
following treatment system:
Headworks: The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks equipped
with grinders and magnetic influent flow meters, mechanical bar screening and a
stacked plate grit separator. The new Emergency Equalization Basin, located within
the Facility footprint, can be used to capture peak flows in excess of the Facility’s
peak design capacity of 4.9-mgd. This flow can be routed back to the head of the
plant for treatment after peak influent flows decrease. The Emergency Equalization
Basin is constructed of compacted native soils on the sides and bottom. The basin
elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 3,417.0 feet
b) Bottom of pond: varies between 3,409.5 and 3,408 feet
c) Anticipated max water surface elevation of 3,415 feet (to maintain a minimum
freeboard of 2 feet), so maximum water depth of 7 feet.
Secondary Treatment: The Facility’s secondary treatment system uses an
activated sludge process that is plug flow with sequential aeration followed by
secondary clarifiers. The system consists of four treatment trains. Each train
consists of one selector tank, two aeration tanks, one clarifier, and one aerobic
digester, all contained within one structure sharing common walls. The selector tank
is aerated by coarse bubble diffusers. It receives primary effluent from the
headworks and recycled activated sludge (RAS) from the clarifier. The first stage
and second stage aeration tanks are alternately aerated and unaerated without
additional mixing. Solids/liquid separation occurs in the clarifier tank over concrete
wedges. RAS is collected and returned to the selector. Waste activated sludge
(WAS) is transferred to the aerobic digesters.
Disinfection: Disinfection occurs within the Chlorine Contact Basin (CCB), which is
configured with two parallel basins outfitted with three passes per basin. There is a
chlorine mixer upstream for sodium hypochlorite addition. Disinfected flow is
dechlorinated through addition of sodium bisulfite in the sodium bisulfite (SBIS)
Mixing Box, connected to the end of the CCB structure.
Surface Water Discharge: During the wet season, effluent is discharged via a
submerged outfall diffuser in Spanish Creek at Discharge Point 001, a water of the
United States, and tributary to the North Fork Feather River. Effluent flow is
measured by Parshall flume at the SBIS mixing box. This Order does not restrict the
discharge season, but instead contains a discharge prohibition for discharges to
Spanish Creek unless an average daily flow ratio of 20:1 is present (Spanish Creek
flow: effluent flow).
Land Discharge: During the dry season (typically 16 May through 31 October),
effluent is discharged to the Irrigation Pond land applied to neighboring Leonhardt
Ranch, a non-dairy cattle pasture. The Irrigation Pond is used to equalize peak
effluent flows in excess of the 20:1 discharge limitation to Spanish Creek. The
Irrigation Pond is generally not drawn down/emptied at any point in the year. The
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-5
American Valley Community Services District ORDER R5-2024-0008
American Valley Wastewater Treatment Plant NPDES NO. CA0078981
Facility’s Irrigation Pond has a capacity of 5.2 million gallons (MG) and is used to
store recycled water before it is discharged to the pasture irrigation site. The
Irrigation Pond provides consistent water supply for the ranch during the non-
discharge period. Discharges to the ranch are regulated by separate Order No. 96-
180 “Water Reclamation Requirements for Recycled Water Use.”
The Irrigation Pond elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond – elevation varies between approximately3,414.3 and 3,414.4
feet (Spanish Creek side), approximately3,414.5 feet on the Clear Stream
side and north end of the pond, and approximately3,417 feet on the south end
of the pond.
b) Bottom of pond – elevation is approximately 3,405.4 feet.
c) Water is stored to a minimum 2 feet freeboard level (in accordance with
NPDES permit order), so maximum water level would be approximately 6.6
feet (maximum).
Solids Treatment: Solids removed from the secondary treatment system are
aerobically digested. Digested sludge can either be transferred directly to the Solids
Dewatering Building for direct dewatering or to the concrete-lined sludge lagoon for
storage. The sludge lagoon is constructed with a reinforced concrete bottom and
ramps with shotcrete sides. Contents of the sludge lagoon can be pumped back to
the solids dewatering facility or back to the front of the plant for full treatment. The
sludge lagoon elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 3,417.0 feet
b) Bottom of pond: varies between 3,410 and 3,407.5 feet
c) Anticipated max water surface elevation of 3,415 feet (to maintain a minimum
freeboard of 2 feet), so maximum water depth of 7.5 feet.
Polymer is added to the incoming sludge prior to dewatering via screw press.
Dewatered solids are conveyed to a common sludge drying bed for final solar drying
prior to off-haul. Dried biosolids are stored onsite at the location(s) identified in
Attachment C and are hauled to a landfill for disposal. The sludge drying area is
constructed with an asphalt bottom and native soils on the sides. The sludge drying
area elevations are as follows:
a) Top of pond: 3,417.0 feet
b) Bottom of pond: 3,408.5 feet
c) Not designed for liquid storage. Any rainfall into the sludge drying bed area
will be returned to the front of the plant via the plant drain pump station.
The Facility produces approximately 100 dry metric tons of dried biosolids annually.
Transportation and disposal/reuse of the biosolids is regulated by U.S. EPA under
40 C.F.R. part 503.
B.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

