[Page 91]
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The treatment system at the Facility consists of mechanical screens; an influent
pump station; trickling filter treatment train consisting of two primary clarigesters, two
trickling filters, and a recirculation pump station; an oxidation ditch treatment train
consisting of an oxidation ditch, secondary clarifier, and return and waste activated
sludge pump stations; an ultraviolet light disinfection system; an effluent pump
system; two unlined treated wastewater ponds; and the recycled water use area for
application of treated wastewater. The trickling filter treatment train typically handles
a fixed flow of 0.5 MGD, which is then diverted to the oxidation ditch treatment train,
which receives the entire wastewater flow.
Treated wastewater is discharged to any of the following: two unlined treated
wastewater ponds, the recycled water Use Area, or Sand Creek. The unlined treated
wastewater ponds allow for storage, percolation, and evaporation of treated effluent
and together have a capacity of approximately 21.8 million gallons. The Facility also
has the capability to discharge treated effluent contained in the treated wastewater
ponds to the recycled water use area and Discharge Point 002 (discharge to Sand
Creek between 1 November and 30 April).
The recycled water use area includes 117 acres of cropland (Fields A, B, C, D, and
E) with principal crops of feed grains, green-chopped silage, and sudan grass. Field
A has been modified to provide the required setback distance from the off-site
domestic water supply well, and now h

[Page 92]
2. Treated municipal wastewater is discharged at Discharge Point 001 to treated
wastewater ponds and the Use Area, and ultimately first encountered
groundwater in Section 24, T16S, R24E, MDB&M and Discharge Point 002 to
Sand Creek, a water of the United States and a tributary to Cross Creek at a
point latitude 36° 31’ 23” N and longitude 119° 18’ 2” W.
3. The Use Area at Discharge Point 001 consists of 117 acres total planted with
fodder, fiber, and/or seed crops. Crop patterns vary annually and by field
including the option to double crop with combinations such as winter wheat and a
summer sudan grass.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-6
[Page 93]
CUTLER-OROSI JOINT POWERS WASTEWATER AUTHORITY ORDER R5-2025-0013
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY NPDES CA0081485
4. Groundwater underlying the Facility, treated wastewater ponds, and Use Area is
in the Detailed Analysis Unit 239 of the Kings Basin Hydrologic Unit.
Groundwater monitoring in the vicinity indicate generally good quality
groundwater.
5. Sand Creek is an intermittent stream that mainly carries local storm water runoff
southerly to Cottonwood Creek and ultimately Cross Creek. Sand Creek is
usually dry during the summertime and is not used for irrigation deliv

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger has expressed interest in modifying its sludge handling facilities,
particularly the addition of mechanical sludge dewatering. However, no definitive
plans have been submitted. Section VI.C.2.a of the Order requires the Discharger to
submit a plan for completing its sludge dewatering activities.
III. APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS
The requirements contained in this Order are based on the requirements and authorities
described in this section.
A. Legal Authorities
This Order serves as WDRs pursuant to article 4, chapter 4, division 7 of the
California Water Code (commencing with section 13260). This Order is also issued
pursuant to section 402 of the federal Clean