A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of a secondary treatment system and a Title 22 tertiary
treatment system. The secondary treatment system at the Facility consists of a
headworks and flow diverter, two aerated ponds (Ponds 1 and 2) operated in
parallel, followed by an additional aerated pond (Pond 4) for settling and polishing
before being pumped to the tertiary treatment system which consists of tertiary
filtration and ultraviolet light (UV) disinfection. Pond 3 is currently out of service and
Pond 5 is no longer used for storage of treated wastewater. Un-disinfected,
secondary treated wastewater is stored on-site in an unlined storage reservoir (Pond
6).
The Facility produces recycled water for irrigation of the CVGC, to supply water to
the jurisdictional wetlands, and for land application via spray irrigation on 35 acres of
spray irrigation fields located adjacent to Pond 6. The tertiary treatment portion of
the Facility is operated intermittently depending on demand and water availability.
Title 22 tertiary treated effluent is collected in a recycled water storage tank and then
conveyed to Pond NC-2D at the CVGC to be used for golf course irrigation or to
provide makeup water for the wetland system. CCWD also pipes raw water from
Lake Tulloch into the recycled water storage tank where is comingles with recycled
water, if present, to meet reclaimed water demand at the CVGC.
This Order regulates the discharge of tertiary-treated wastewater mixed with raw
water from Lake Tulloch from Pond NC-2D to the jurisdictional wetlands at
Discharge Point 001. This Order also includes the Title 22 water reclamation
requirements for the Facility for reuse on the CVGC.
The collection system, secondary treatment and storage facilities, sludge treatment
and control, and land disposal of tertiary treated effluent onsite are regulated under
separate WDR Order R5-2010-0070. There are four

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger plans to install a dissolved air floatation system for filter pretreatment
to address seasonal issues related to algae, coloring, and tannins in water sourced
from Pond 6. This improvement is planned for completion in the next two years.
The Discharger also plans to replace the current tertiary filter and may install a
second filter for flexibility and equipment redundancy. Replacement of the old filter is
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-7
CALAVERAS COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
AND SADDLE CREEK GOLF CLUB, LLC ORDER R5-2023-0013
COPPER COVE WASTEWATER RECLAMATION FACILITY NPDES NO. CA0084620
planned for completion in the next three to four years. Other improvements during
this phase may include installation of a second redundant UV disinfection system,
building expansion, addition of emergency power for the tertiary treatment system,
and site improvements for drainage.
III.