enerated from the Resort. No outside sewer
mains will be connected to the Resort WWTF. The WWTF will be designed to have a monthly
average daily flow of 33,500 gallons per day (gpd) and a peak daily flow of 74,000 gpd.
A portion of the property previously contained the original SilverTip Resort, which included a
hotel and restaurant. The hotel burned down in 1981 and the restaurant has been vacant
since. The Regional Water Board issued a Clean Up and Abatement order in August 1980 to
the then property owner Mr. Robert Keller in response to the surfacing of sewage in the
adjacent meadow due to septic tank overflow. BSK and Associates evaluated the then
existing septic system and prepared a report in January 1981 indicating the existing septic
system was undersized for the load it was sustaining and provided plans for enlarging the
system. The work was not completed due to the fire that destroyed the hotel. The former
septic system is not an issue with the proposed Resort as wastewater will now be tertiary
treated before disposal either in a new leachfield or spray field areas.
The Discharger submitted a report of waste discharge (RWD) dated 25 August 2004, for a new
WWTF to serve the proposed Resort. The proposed WWTF will consist of a septic tank
effluent wastewater collection system and a tertiary wastewater treatment system. The
treatment process will include flow equalization, trickling filter secondary treatment with
interstage clarification, denitrification, microfiltration, and ultraviolet light disinfection. The
effluent quality will comply with DHS Title 22 CCR standards for ‘”disinfected tertiary recycled
water.”
The Discharger proposes to discharge tertiary treated wastewater to a leachfield during the
winter months (approximately November through April) and will be used for landscape
irrigation and toilet flushing during the summer months (typically from May through October).
Recycled water will also be used to fill a 510,000 to 750,000 gallon effluent storage tank. The
tank allows wastewater to be applied at controlled rates to the leachfield and spray fields and
allows use of wastewater for fire suppression activities.
Solids and Biosolids Disposal
The accumulated solids in the septic tanks will require periodic removal and disposal. Septage
will be removed by a conventional septic tank vacuum truck and disposed of at a regional
septage disposal facility approved by Mariposa County. Screenings from the microfiltration
process are estimated to generate about 3,000 to 6,000 gallons per month of total liquid solids
INFORMATION SHEET-ORDER NO. R5-2007-0140 -2-
US PACIFIC REAL ESTATE GROUP
SILVERETIP RESORT VILLAGE
including septage removal. Disposal options include liquid disposal by tanker truck and/or
dewatered residual disposal by solid waste transport. The final method has not been
determined at this time and will require approval from Mariposa County.
Basin Plan, Beneficial Uses, and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

