[Page 89]
2023. A site visit was conducted on 21 December 2023, to observe operations and
collect additional data to develop permit limitations and requirements for waste
discharge.
E. Regulations at 40 C.F.R. section 122.46 limit the duration of NPDES permits to a
fixed term not to exceed five years. Accordingly, Table 3 of this Order limits the
duration of the discharge authorization. Under 40 C.F.R. section 122.6(d), States
authorized to administer the NPDES program may administratively continue State-
issued permits beyond their expiration dates until the effective date of the new
permits, if State law allows it. Pursuant to California Code of Regulations (CCR), title
23, section 2235.4, the terms and conditions of an expired permit are automatically
continued pending reissuance of the permit if the Discharger complies with all
federal NPDES requirements for continuation of expired permits.
II. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger provides sewerage service for the community of Brentwood and serves a
population of approximately 64,870. The design daily average flow capacity of the Facility
is 5.0 MGD, with plans to expand the capacity to 6.4 MGD within the permit term.
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 90]
CITY OF BRENTWOOD ORDER R5-2024-0020
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES NO. CA0082660
A. Description of Wastewater and Biosolids Treatment and Controls
The Facility produces disinfected tertiary recycled water suitable for unrestricted
reuse. The treatment system at the Facility consists of a headworks (screening and
grit removal), two anoxic basins, two extended aeration activated sludge basins, two
denitrification basins, two secondary clarifiers, two banks of two single media filters
(total of four filters), chlorine disinfection, dechlorination, and a cascade aeration
system for discharge of tertiary treated effluent to Marsh Creek. A 36-millimeter
thick, polypropylene lined Emergency Storage Pond with a 13.1 million gallon
capacity exists to divert effluent during high flows or slug discharges, if needed,
before returning to the headworks. The Facility is currently being upgraded for an
expansion of the flow capacity to accommodate future increased wastewater inflows
associated with development and population growth identified in the City’s General
Plan. Specific details of the upgrades are included below in Section II.E.
Treated effluent that is not discharged to the creek is distributed as recycled water to
irrigation customers primarily during the summer months through

===PLANNED CHANGES===

