Water System Permit issued by the California Department of Public Health.
8. The WWTF consists of a collection system, two aerated ponds (Ponds 1 and 3), one
unaerated pond (Pond 2), chlorination facilities, a storage reservoir, and the LAAs. All of
the ponds and the reservoir are unlined. Little Indian Creek is located topographically
downgradient from the LAAs and an unnamed tributary passes through the LAAs.
Sludge is hauled off site to a permitted landfill. A current site plan is included in Attachment
B, which is attached hereto and made part of the Order by reference.
9. The wastewater is treated in Ponds 1 through 3. Design data for the existing ponds are
summarized below.
Pond Depth (feet) Volume (MG) Surface Area
1 8 2 1
2 4.5 2.1 1.6
3 5.5 4.5 2.8
10. The storage reservoir is used for storage of treated and disinfected effluent. The reservoir
has a capacity of 185 acre-feet (60 MG) at two feet of freeboard. A diversion ditch around
the storage reservoir has been modified to divert stormwater runoff away from the storage
reservoir.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER NO. R5-2011-0092 3
CITY OF PLYMOUTH WWTF
AMADOR COUNTY
11. Wastewater is applied to approximately 85 acres of the 125-acre site. The LAAs are
divided into six fields designated Field 1 through 6. The Discharger has installed earthen
berms in Fields 2, 3 and 6 along a portion of Little Indian Creek and the unnamed tributary to
contain tailwater and storm water (see Attachment B). To prevent tailwater and stormwater
runoff from the LAAs entering surface water courses, only these three fields with berms can
be used for year-round land application. Fields 1, 4 and 5 currently do not have berms, thus
application of wastewater is limited to the period of 1 April to 1 November. However, if the
Discharger builds berms or ditches around these fields, upon approval by the Executive
Officer, the land application on Fields 1, 4 and 5 may occur throughout the wet season.
12. Hypochlorite is injected to the Pond 3 effluent at the output of the storage reservoir transfer
pumps. Contact time in the transfer pipeline from the hypochlorite injection point to the
storage reservoir is estimated to be 15 minutes. Additional chlorination for odor control
may take place at the irrigation pumps.
13. The Discharger may move the disinfection system to the Pond 3 outlet to allow disinfected
effluent to bypass the storage reservoir and be discharged directly to the LAAs. In order to
ensure adequate chlorine contact time, this Order requires approval of a technical report
documenting completion of the disinfection system modifications prior to any bypass of the
storage reservoir.
14. Influent samples collected at the headworks and a manhole from the RV Resort have been
characterized as shown below from July 2005 through May 2011.
Influent Wastewater Constituent Concentrations
Headworks RV Resort

===PLANNED CHANGES===

