[Page 1]
7. The existing WWTF consists of a mechanical bar screen, flow meters, three aerated
ponds, a disinfection tank, sand filters, and LAAs. A current site plan is included in
Attachment B, which is attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
8. The influent flows through the mechanical bar screen and is treated in aerated Ponds 1
through 3. All three treatment ponds are unlined and operated in series. Pond 3 is also
used as a storage pond. The effluent from Pond 3 is pumped to a contact tank for
disinfection by sodium hypochlorite. The disinfected wastewater flows through sand filters
and then is applied to the LAAs. The filters are used to reduce clogging in the irrigation
systems. Solid waste from the bar screen is hauled off site to a permitted landfill.
The wastewater treatment process schematic is shown on Attachment C, which is
attached hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
9. Based on the records, approximately 300 cubic yards of biosolids were removed from
Pond 2 in December 2002. The current sludge depths in the ponds are unknown.
10. Design data for the existing ponds are summarized below.
Pond Surface Area (acres) Depth (feet) Volume (million gallons) 1
1 0.41 6.5 0.70
2 0.20 7.0 0.50
3 0.75 8.0 2.34
1. The ponds volumes are calculated at two feet of freeboard.
Storm water diversion ditches were installed around all ponds.
11. The LAAs consist of a 4.4-acre spray field and a 1.5-acre subsurface drip irrigation field.
The spray field has an approximate slope of 10 percent. A mixed stand of cedar, pine,
oak and other plants grows in the LAAs. A tailwater collection system was installed at the
downhill end of the LAAs (Attachment B) and the tailwater is returned to Pond 3.
The irrigation pumps are automatically controlled to coincide with the irrigation schedule,
or manually controlled by the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System, which
controls the land application to the spray field or the subsurface drip irrigation field.
12. The subsurface drip irrigation system was installed in 2008 to increase disposal capacity
during the wet season. The subsurface drip irrigation system consists of five zones, flush
lines, and appurtenances. Five manifold lines distribute effluent into the drip lines.
Each manifold is controlled automatically by valve and only one zone operates at a time.
The automatic controller rotates through the zones on an as-needed basis to insure all
zones are evenly used. The pump rate is 71 gallons per minute (gpm) for each zone and
the maximum operation hours is 2

===PLANNED CHANGES===

