[Page 17]
3. Antidegradation Policies
a. Surface Water
This NOA does not allow for an increase in flow or mass of pollutants to the
receiving water. Therefore, a complete antidegradation analysis is not necessary.
This NOA requires compliance with applicable federal technology-based
standards and with WQBELs where the discharge could have the reasonable
potential to cause or contribute to an exceedance of water quality standards. The
permitted discharge is consistent with the antidegradation provisions of 40 C.F.R.
Appendix C – Supplemental Fact Sheet 18
[Page 18]
City of Colfax 17 October 2023
Wastewater Treatment Plant R5-2023-0025-001
section 131.12 and the State Anti-Degradation Policy. Compliance with these
requirements will result in the use of best practicable treatment or control of the
discharge. The impact on existing water quality will be insignificant.
This NOA relaxes effluent limitations for ammonia and nitrate plus nitrite and
removes the acute whole effluent toxicity limitation. Based on Facility
performance the relaxation or removal of these effluent limitations is not
expected to result in an increase in pollutants concentration or loading, a
decrease in the level of treatment or control, or a reduction of water quality.
Implementation of this NOA will result in the best practicable treatment or control
of the discharge necessary to assure that a pollution or nuisance will not occur
and the highest water quality consistent with the maximum benefit to the people
of the State will be maintained. Thus, the removal and relaxation of effluent
limitations for these constituents is consistent with the antidegradation provisions
of 40 C.F.R. section 131.12 and State Water Resources Control Board (State
Water Board) Resolution No. 68-16.
b. Groundwater
All ponds at the Facility are lined; Pond 1 and Pond 2 are gunite-lined and Pond
3 is lined with a High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) liner. Solids created during
the wastewater treatment process are dewatered and hauled offsite. The
Discharger is not requesting, nor does it currently discharge to land. This NOA
does not allow for an increase in flow or mass of pollutants to the groundwater.
Therefore, a complete antidegradation analysis is not necessary. The permitted
discharge is consistent with the antidegradation provisions of 40 C.F.R. section
131.12 and the State Anti-Degradation Po

===PLANNED CHANGES===

