[Page 84]
Time Schedule Order (TSO) R5-2014-0159 on 9 June 2017 to replace the previous
overland flow treatment system. Following a startup period, the Discharger
submitted a Provisional Performance Acceptance Certificate regarding the Facility’s
secondary and tertiary upgrades on 1 September 2017. The upgraded treatment
system at the Facility includes a headworks with a mechanical bar screen, aerated
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET F-4
[Page 85]
CITY OF DAVIS ORDER R5-2025-0026
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT NPDES CA0079049
grit removal, primary sedimentation, aeration basins including nitrification and
denitrification, secondary clarification, tertiary filtration, chlorine disinfection with
sodium hypochlorite, dechlorination with sodium bisulfite, and reaeration. After
reaeration, effluent is discharged to Willow Slough Bypass at Discharge Point 001.
The Facility sends effluent to the Davis Wetlands and will monitor the effluent to the
Davis Wetlands at Monitoring Location EFF-001. During periods of high rainfall in
winter months, effluent remaining in the Davis Wetlands and mixed with storm water
may also be discharged to the Conaway Ranch Toe Drain, via the restoration Davis
Wetlands, at Discharge Point 002. Water in the unlined wastewater tracts that
percolate into the groundwater is considered a discharge to groundwater via
Discharge Point 004. The Davis Wetlands include a wastewater tract, a storm water
tract, and seven numbered tracts, each constructed with flexibility to flow to adjacent
downgradient cells. Tertiary-treated effluent from the Facility is conveyed to the
Davis Wetlands wastewater tract, flows through the wastewater tract, through Tracts
6 and 7, before draining into a peripheral ditch which recirculates back to the
wastewater tract when it reaches capacity. Discharge to Discharge Point 002 occurs
only during significant storm events that cause flooding in the wetlands. Before
discharge, the only treatment provided in the wetlands is pH adjustment, as needed.
The stormwater tract no longer receives stormwater runoff from the Facility. The
Davis Wetlands stormwater tracts, along with other tracts, only collect stormwater
from rain or storm events.
The Discharger is implementing a recycled water program which will supply
Conaway Ranch with 1.8 MGD of tertiary treated, disinfected, effluent between
1 May through 31 October of each year. Effluent to Conaway Ranch will be
conveyed through private ditches then discharged to the Main Conaway Canal, a

===PLANNED CHANGES===

