below 40 mg/L, a standard included in the Tulare Lake Basin Plan.
11. Influent nitrogen concentrations are expected to be consistent with typical domestic wastewater.
The current treatment process does not appear to provide significant nitrogen removal. Relative
to other WWTFs in the Region, effluent is high in total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), which is
indicative of insufficient dissolved oxygen concentrations in the treatment ponds for biological
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014-0163 -3-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
nitrification to occur. The concentration of dissolved oxygen in the treatment ponds depends
primarily on aerator duty cycle.
12. The RWD includes a water balance that indicates the WWTF is capable of accommodating the
design flow of 1.0 mgd, plus seasonal precipitation with a 100-year return period. The
headworks were reportedly designed to accommodate influent flows up to 2.0 mgd.
13. As part of the RWD, the Discharger submitted a geotechnical report characterizing soils
underlying the WWTF. The report presents the results of sieve and hydrometer tests for
samples collected at the depth of pond bottoms, and field percolation rates at the same depths.
Soils in the upper 15 feet were characterized as either sandy or silty clay. Percolation test
results ranged from 28 minutes per inch beneath Pond 1 (PND-001) to 363 minutes per inch
beneath Pond 12 (PND-012) with an average of 87 minutes per inch.
14. The RWD includes a brief description of how future expansion of the RWD to 2.0 mgd could be
accomplished through construction of an additional sludge drying bed and four additional
treatment ponds, adjacent and similar in design to the existing ponds. The Discharger has not
submitted detailed plans for the next phase of proposed expansion, which is not expected to be
necessary within the next ten years.
Biosolids Management
15. WDRs Order 87-012 requires that collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from
liquid wastes shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Executive Officer. The RWD
describes a plan to remove approximately 8,900 tons of sludge from the previous treatment
ponds, the result of many years of accumulation. The plan was to haul the sludge to the
Synagro West, Inc., facility in Merced County. The record does not include documentation of
final sludge disposal.
16. The existing WWTF incorporates settled sludge collection ports at the bottom of the second and
third treatment ponds, which directs sludge to a clay-lined sludge drying bed. Liquids drained off
the sludge flow to a sump where they are pumped to the WWTF headworks. Dried sludge is
stockpiled in the sludge storage area just west of the drying bed until there is sufficient quantity
to economically remove it (no more than two years, according to the RWD).
17. Based on an addendum to the geotechnical report submitted with the RWD, prepared by John
Minney (GE No. 602), soils underlying the sludge drying bed are approximately 50 percent clay
and are expected to have a permeability less than 10-7 cm/s when compacted. The record
drawings show the subgrade was compacted to 95 percent relative density. The six-inch clay
liner is native soil treated with 5 percent bentonite and compacted to 95 percent relative density.
18. The RWD includes a projected sludge production rate for a WWTF of this particular design of
about 6,300 cubic yards of sludge annually (about 224 tons of dry sludge per year). However,
the RWD states that sludge production rates have been less than the design projections at
similar WWTFs in the Central Valley, and actual sludge generation is expected to be less than
175 tons of dry sludge per year. The RWD describes offsite land application of dry sludge at the
Synagro West, Inc., facility in Merced County or at another permitted facility approved to receive
the waste.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014-0163 -4-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
19. Screenings removed at the headworks are conveyed by an auger to a waste bin and are hauled
to a landfill.
Site-Specific Conditions
20. The WWTF lies about 25 miles east of the Southern Coast Ranges, on the west side of the San
Joaquin Valley, at an elevation of about 335 feet above mean sea level.
21. The WWTF is in an arid climate characterized by dry summers and mild winters. The rainy
season generally extends from November through April. Average annual pan evaporation in the
area is about 65 inches, according to Department of Water Resources (DWR) Bulletin No.
113-3. Western Regional Climate Center monitoring data for Five Points show the average
annual precipitation in the discharge area is about 6.8 inches. The 100-year return period wet
year precipitation is about 18 inches.
22. Soils in the vicinity of the WWTF are alluvium deposited by Los Gatos Creek, predominately
sandy loams and clay loams. According to the Web Soil Survey published by the United States
Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service, the most prevalent soil
series’ in the area are Westhaven loam, Westhaven clay loam, and Excelsior sandy loam, all of
which are sandy with relatively high permeability.
23. The area immediately north of the WWTF is characterized by occasional flooding and ponding
due to high storm flows in Los Gatos Creek, which terminates about 1 mile north of the WWTF.
24. The current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) Number FM06019C3255H, revised 18 February 2009, identifies some areas of the
WWTF (including the four new treatment ponds) as being in an area inundated by a 100-year
return frequency flood. The FEMA map does not appear to have been modified to reflect the
change in surface topography from the WWTF improvement project. The top elevations of
WWTF berms containing wastewater are six to eight feet above the ground surface, which is
expected to be above the level of 100-year return period flood waters.
25. The Discharger is not required to obtain coverage under a National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System General Industrial Storm Water Permit for the discharge because all storm
water runoff is retained onsite and does not discharge to a water of the United States.
26. State Water Project water from the California Aqueduct less than half a mile east of the City
provides the City’s water supply.
27. The Discharger has performed weekly monitoring of source water EC, required to be done at
least quarterly by Order 87-012, but has not submitted results of minerals analyses required
annually. Supply water EC varies significantly over time (e.g., increasing from 300 umhos/cm in
January 2012 to about 600 umhos/cm in April 2012), but is generally between 200 umhos/cm
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS ORDER R5-2014-0163 -5-
CITY OF HURON
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
FRESNO COUNTY
and 900 umhos/cm. The Discharger submitted its 2013 Consumer Confidence Report to
characterize source water for preparation of WDRs. The table below summarizes the results.
Table 2. Water supply monitoring results (2013)

===PLANNED CHANGES===

