[Page 43]
Background
Knights Landing Community Services District owns and operates the Knights Landing
wastewater treatment facility (WWTF), which is ½ mile south of County Road 116 near
Knights Landing, in Yolo County. The Discharger proposes to expand the facility to
accommodate planned development in the community. Monthly sewer service rates were
$27 in 2006, and the corresponding residential connection fee was $11,100 per equivalent
dwelling unit.
The existing WWTF consists of a wet well lift station, eight wastewater stabilization ponds on
approximately 20 acres and a 31.5-acre spreading basin. The stabilization ponds are
operated as two parallel passive stabilization systems with four ponds each. The spreading
basin receives overflow from the eight existing ponds during the wet season only. The
WWTF does not use aerators or other active treatment systems. The current average daily
dry weather flow is estimated to be 80,000 gallons per day (gpd). Rising groundwater levels
during extended periods of heavy rainfall may cause significant infiltration of groundwater into
the sewer system.
The community water supply is moderately saline and moderately hard, wi

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in Discharge
17. The Discharger plans to expand the existing WWTF to serve a new residential subdivision.
The subdivision is expected to increase the population served by the WWTF from
approximately 1,018 to 1,320.
18. The WWTF treatment and disposal capacity will be increased by converting part of the
existing 31.5-acre land spreading area to two percolation/evaporation ponds (Ponds 9 and
10). The remainder will continue to be used as land spreading area when needed. The
walls of the headworks structure will be raised by one foot to provide 100-year flood
protection. The rest of the WWTF is outside the 100-year floodplain.
19. Pond 9 will have a surface area of approximately 5.0 acres and a maximum volume of
31 acre-feet at two feet of freeboard. Pond 10 will have a surface area of approximately
4.5 acres and a maximum volume of 30 acre-feet at two feet of freeboard
20. The Discharger has completed a water balance for the expanded facility to demonstrate
that adequate treatment, storage and disposal capacity is available for the new subdivision
and other future developments. The water balance was prepared based on reasonable
estimates of site-specific influent flows, precipitation, evaporation, percolation, and
groundwater infiltration into the sewer system. The water balance was used to model
storage and disposal capacity during the 100-year, 365-day precipitation event. The
model indicates that the expanded WWTF will have sufficient capacity for 105,000 gpd as
an average daily dry weather flow (from August through October each year) and
48.4 million gallons (MG) as a total annual influent flow (including I/I).
21. The WWTF Operation and Maintenance Manual submitted with the Report of Waste
Discharge is over 30 years old and needs to be updated to addre