[Page 1]
7. The WWRF is designed to treat up to a monthly average of 0.71 mgd and a daily
maximum of 1.07 mgd of municipal wastewater to disinfected tertiary recycled water
standards as defined by Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (hereafter
Title 22). The WWRF's treatment process, in order of operation, consists of influent
pumps, an in-line influent flow meter, mechanical screening, sequencing batch
reactors for nitrogen removal, a flow equalization tank, chemical coagulation, cloth
media filtration, and disinfection.
8. Treated effluent from the WWRF is discharged to a 12-acre-foot, on-site storage pond,
which is lined with a single layer of 60-mil high density polyethylene. From the lined
storage pond, effluent is pumped via closed conduit pipe to an effluent distribution box
adjacent to Lake F at the golf course, where it is distributed during the night hours to
the golf course through the sprinkler irrigation system and to buffer vegetation
adjacent to the golf course through drip irrigation systems.
9. Sludge is conveyed from the sequencing batch reactors to an approximately
41,000-gallon aerated sludge holding tank. Sludge is then pumped to the collection
system for further treatment at the Regional Facility.
10. If needed, effluent wastewater from the sequencing batch reactors and wastewater
from the lined storage pond can be pumped back to the sludge holding tank and
discharged to the collection system for further treatment at the Regional Facility. A
process flow diagram of the WWRF is shown in Attachment B, which is attached
hereto and made part of this Order by reference.
11. The Discharger has an approved Pretreatment Program for the Regional Facility that it
also incorporates into the operation of the WWR

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes in the Discharge
13. The City of Fresno has eliminated the point of discharge to Basin DE, which is
hydraulically connected to the San Joaquin River. The original intent of this discharge
option was to provide the WWRF with an alternative discharge point when wet
weather precludes the use of recycled water at the Copper River Country Club golf
course. Due to slower than predicted population growth in the service area,
wastewater flows have not reached the level in which discharge to Basin DE is
needed.
14. The City of Fresno replaced the chlorine disinfection system with a TrojanUVFit™
18AL40 UV disinfection system. The UV disinfection system includes two duty
reactors and one stand-by reactor. In July 2014, the City of Fresno conducted a
spot-check bioassay validation test on flow rates up to 150 gallons per minute (gpm)
per reactor in order to demonstrate conformance with design and proper installation
and operation of the validated UV system. In a letter dated 25 August 2014, the State
Water Resources Control Board, Divis