Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
The wastewater treatment facility (WWTF) for the proposed Development will be constructed in
phases to allow for expansion as the Development grows. The WWTF will provide tertiary
treatment with ultraviolet (UV) disinfection and produce Title 22 recycled water for unrestricted
reuse. These WDRs will regulate the WWTF for the first three phases identified as Phase A,
Phase B, and Phase 1. Based on projections, the Phase I WWTF will meet wastewater
treatment demands for the Development till 2022, which will be comprised of approximately
1,800 residential units, and some commercial and public facilities.
According to the RWD, the WWTF will include an influent pump station and head works, flow
equalization, fine screening, advanced biological treatment, an anoxic tank to provide for
nitrogen reduction, UV disinfection, solids handling, and recycled water and emergency storage.
For the first two phases, Phase A and Phase B, the WWTF will consist of membrane bioreactor
(MBR) package plants with average maximum dry weather design flows of 0.25 million gallons
per day (mgd) and 0.5 mgd, respectively. When flows approach the capacity for the Phase B
WWTF, construction will begin on Phase I, which will consist of a permanent Membrane
Bioreactor (MBR) system with an anoxic tank, swing air tank, aerobic tank, post-anoxic tank, and
a 0.4 million gallon flow equalization tank.
INFORMATION SHEET, ORDER NO. R5-2016-0057 -2-
TESORO VIEJO MASTER MUTUAL WATER COMPANY
TESORO VIEJO WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
MADERA COUNTY
After treatment and disinfection, the effluent will be discharged to recycled water storage ponds
prior to reuse. The ponds will incorporate a 50 mil HDPE liner. For Phase A and Phase B
recycled water storage will be provided by one pond with a designed capacity of 1.56 million
gallons. There will also be a second lined pond with a capacity of 0.84 million gallons used for
emergency storage of recycled water that does not meet Title 22 requirements (off-spec
recycled water). After construction of the Phase 1 wastewater treatment system, all off-spec
recycled water will be returned to the headworks of the WWTF for further treatment and the
emergency storage pond will be used for storage of recycled water bringing the total available
storage capacity to 2.4 million gallons.
The disinfected tertiary treated effluent will be used for irrigation of crops and landscaping within
the Development and on land currently owned by Rio Mesa Holdings, LLC. Together these
properties make up the “Use Areas” for recycled water. The recycled water will be applied at
agronomic rates. According to the RWD, for Phase A the Development will have approximately
184 acres of land available for irrigation with recycled water; for Phase B the Development will
have approximately 240 acres of land available for irrigation with recycled water; and for Phase 1
the Development will have approximately 463 acres of land available for irrigation with recycled
water.
Because this will be a new WWTF, there is no existing effluent data available. Anticipated
effluent quality for the WWTF based on the proposed treatment process and similar existing
WWTFs is presented below:
Parameter/

===PLANNED CHANGES===

