[Page 10]
17. As part of the treatment process, effluent is recirculated between the treatment
and storage/disposal ponds. Screened influent entering the system flows to the
recirculating pump station where it is mixed with treated effluent and sent to the
treatment ponds. The recirculation contributes additional oxygen and nutrients for
microbial activity to enhance organic and nitrogen removal and balance organic
loading within the system.
18. The new headworks includes a mechanical bar screen and compactor. Screenings
collected at the headworks are deposited in a dumpster and hauled off to a local
landfill for disposal. Residual solids (i.e., sludge) from the wastewater treatment
process will collect on the bottom of the ponds over time. Given their size it can
take many years for the accumulation of sludge in the bottom of the treatment
ponds to reach a level that would impair the treatment process. According to the
Discharger, accumulated sludge in the ponds is monitored regularly and, when
necessary, the individual pond is drained, and the sludge hauled off to a landfill or
nearby composting facility for disposal. According to the Discharger, this is
expected to occur sometime within the next five years.
19. As required by their existing MRP, the Discharger collects influent and effluent
samples for pH, EC, 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD ), and total
5
suspended solids (TSS) on a monthly or twice monthly basis. According to the
Discharger, influent samples consist of a composite sample collected at the
headworks prior to the recirculating pump station, and effluent samples consist of a
grab sample collected from Pond 7 adjacent to the discharge point to the irrigation
system. Table 3 summarizes average influent and effluent concentrations for these
constituents based on available data from January 2017 to December 2019.
Table 3. Influent and Effluent Wastewater Quality (2017 to 2019)
Constituent/
Unit Influent Effluent
Parameter
pH std. units 7.0 8.5
EC µmhos/cm 1,794 2,875
BOD mg/L 531 46
5
TSS mg/L 517 154

===PLANNED CHANGES===

