[Page 1]
6. Description of Facility and Discharge
The Facility is designed to treat and dispose of up to 0.375 million gallons of
wastewater per day. The Facility’s primary wastewater supply is from a nearby
federal penitentiary, in addition to smaller residential wastewater flows from the
nearby communities of Herlong and West Patton Village. The Facility does not
receive any wastewater from the Sierra Army Depot.
The Facility produces secondary-treated effluent and discharges the effluent into
onsite infiltration basins. The Facility’s treatment system consists of influent pumps,
a mechanical screening system, an activated sludge oxidation ditch, and a
secondary clarifier. The treatment system’s oxidation ditch and secondary clarifier
include aerobic and anoxic zones, which aid in removing total nitrogen through
nitrification and denitrification of the wastewater. The effluent from the secondary
clarifier is discharged to one of seven infiltration basins. The Facility and its
treatment and disposal components are shown in Attachment “B,” which is made a
part of this Order.
The secondary clarifier also produces biological sludge that undergoes treatment in
an aerobic digester. Treated sludge typically is dewatered by a filter press. Facility
operators can also use the Facility’s sludge drying beds to dewater the sludge
following treatment. The sludge drying beds consist of a layer of sand overlying an
impermeable high density polyethylene (HDPE) liner with a subsurface drain. Liquid
from both dewatering systems is returned to the wastewater treatment system.
The Facility also has a chlorine-based disinfection system that is intended to be
used to produce treated wastewater for recycled uses. Operating the Facility’s
chlorine-based disinfection system is not authorized by this Order. The Discharger
must apply for either individual or general waste discharge requirements for
operating the chlorine-based disinfection system and/or for the production,
distribution, and/or use of recycled wastewater.
7. Sludge Disposal
Dewatered sludge is temporarily stored onsite in dumpsters, and then transported to
an offsite facility authorized to receive such waste.
[Page 2]
Herlong Public Utility District -3- Board Order No. R6T-2016-0036
Lassen County WDID No. 6A180208004
8. Authorized Disposal Site
The authorized dispos

===PLANNED CHANGES===

