D 4. FINAL EIR TEXT FOR SECTION 4.6.4 (italics) AND WATER BOARD ANALYSIS
Impact Treatment Sites: SP-1 Site (cid:133) SP-6 Site (cid:54) SP-13 Site (cid:133)
Collection and Treatment Systems: Alternative 1 (cid:133) Alternative 2 (cid:133)
4.6.4 Operation of the treatment pond complex could potentially result in
co-mingling of wastewaters with Eagle Lake surface waters during a
100-year precipitation event if inflows to the ponds overtop the pond
berms. This would be a less than significant impact.
Conceptual design criteria for the treatment pond complex used large 8.7-
acre pond areas sized to protect against a 100-year precipitation event.
Ponds were designed with an additional three feet of freeboard to
accommodate a 100-year precipitation event. Ponds were designed for
an average depth of 5.5 feet from the top of the berm, 2.5 feet of which
would be occupied by wastewater (at its highest level) and three
Attachment D -9-
additional feet of protective freeboard. Therefore, commingling of pond
wastewaters with Eagle Lake surface waters as a consequence of berm
overtopping is considered a less than significant impact.
Water Board Analysis and Findings for section 4.6.4
Wastewater overflows during a 100-year precipitation event are considered a
potentially significant impact if there is a reasonable likelihood they may occur.
As stated in the report of waste discharge for the Facility, the selected location
for the ponds is approximately 2000 feet west of Eagle Lake with pond bottom
elevations ranging from 5136 feet above mean sea level (msl) to 5140 feet above
MSL, and thus the pond bottoms will be, at least, 18.5 feet above the projected
maximum surface elevation of Eagle Lake (5117.5 feet above msl). Additionally,
the report of waste discharge included an estimate of annual rainfall based on a
100-year return cycle and determined the 100-year precipitation total to be 31.6
inches. Based on descriptions of the Facility operation in the report of waste
discharge, at least two feet of pond freeboard will be maintained at all times, after
accounting for annual precipitation inputs, and will provide overflow protection
from a 100-year rain cycle in any year. The Water Board thus has no reasonable
basis to conclude that significant effects will occur from mixing of wastewater
effluent with Eagle Lake surface waters due to reasonably foreseeable
precipitation events, and no additional mitigation is required. Pursuant to Waste
Discharge Requirements, the Discharger will report freeboard measurements
and precipitation totals to the Water Board on a quarterly basis.
D.4 Water Board Analysis and Findings Concerning Potentially Significant
Water Quality Effects Associated with Changes to the Project Certified in
the Final EIR
The Project, as certified in the Final EIR, included 34.8 acres of evaporation
ponds constructed to contain water at a depth of 2.6 feet or less. The evaporation
ponds as proposed in the report of waste discharge total 20.2 acres with a depth
of water up to 5.0 feet, and two feet of freeboard. Concurrent with reducing the
size of the proposed wastewater ponds, the Discharger proposed an evaporation
enhancement system for Pond 1. The changes to the Project will increase the
storage volume (per unit area) of the evaporation ponds and head loading on the
liner (thus increasing the rate of any leakage due to liner impairment) while
reducing overall surface area available for evaporation.
The report of waste discharge indicates total evaporation rates will remain similar
to those evaluated in the Final EIR by enhancing the evaporation rate by
spraying effluent above one of the evaporation ponds. The reductions in
evaporative surface area and the proposed evaporation enhancement system
were not analyzed in the Final EIR. If the wastewater is not eliminated from the
ponds at the projected rates, there is potential for the ponds to become
overloaded and spill partially-treated and concentrated wastewater to the
environment. Because wastewater spills would violate waste discharge
requirements and discharge prohibitions this would be considered a potentially
significant effect.
Attachment D -10-
Because the evaporation enhancement system involves spraying partially-treated
undisinfected wastewater into the air, potentially significant effects on the
environment that are not within the Water Board’s authority or expertise may
occur unless mitigation is incorporated. The system will have a reduced capacity
from that in the EIR until the enhanced evaporation system has been reviewed
and approved in an addendum to the EIR or separate document prepared by the
Lead Agency to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act.
D.5 Potential Impacts Not Subject to Water Board Discretionary Approval
The Water Board has reviewed the Final EIR for those project activities which are
within the agency’s area of expertise, are required to be carried out or approved
by the agency, or will be subject to the exercise of powers by the agency. The
EIR identifies other potentially significant impacts and significant impacts that are
not related to water quality. The Water Board is not responsible for implementing
the mitigation measures identified in the EIR or additional mitigation measures
other parties have deemed necessary.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

