[Page 2]
5. Description of the Facility
The treatment consists of conventional screening and grit removal, an
influent lift station, two basins designed for the Parkson Biolac system, and
two circular clarifiers that further treat the wastewater prior to discharging
the effluent into on-site percolation basins.
The previously constructed micro-media plant (regulated under Order
R6V-2009-0036) was not operational because it could not meet effluent
requirements and was never considered operational. The Facility was re-
evaluated by Perc Water Corporation who prepared an October 6, 2011,
turnaround proposal recommending Facility upgrades to adequately treat
the entire wastewater flow.
The Design Summary Technical Memorandum, produced by Pace
Advanced Water Engineering for the Discharger, provides detailed
information on the Facility upgrades being completed at the Facility. The
following is a list of treatment processes and equipment that the Facility will
have once the upgrades are accomplished.
(a) Influent head works will consist of three trains,
Bar screens that need to be manually cleaned
Mechanical bar screens 10 mm size
New mechanical bar screens 6 mm size (will become primary flow
pattern)
(b) Grit Removal – (2) Vortex chambers in parallel.
(c) Lift station with a capacity of greater than 4 MGD – (4) pumps in
parallel.
(d) Primary/Secondary treatment - Biolac Basins – (2) in parallel,
repurposed with an increased capacity by increasing the pond
operational depth of up to 14 feet (from 12 feet).
[Page 3]
Adelanto Wastewater Treatment 4 Board Order R6V-2013-0058
Facility WDID NO. 6B369805001
San Bernardino County
(e) Secondary Clarifiers – (2) 70 foot diameter clarifiers that will operate in
parallel.
(f) Sludge Thickening – (2) existing former clarifiers reconfigured as
sludge thickeners.
(g) Sludge Dewatering – (2) centrifugal units.
(h) Sludge Disposal – Temporarily stored onsite in bins for offsite
composting disposal.
(i) Disposal – (4) percolation ponds (Nos. 1, 4, 5, and 9) with a portion of
the effluent to be used for onsite industrial processes. The total
infiltration capacity of the ponds is estimated at 9 MGD.
(j) Filtration – (12) currently unused two-stage Dynasand filters that have
a capacity of 3.3 MGD and will remain onsite for potential future use to
remove nitrogen from the effluent if needed.
(k) Disinfection – (1) chlorine contact basin with a current capacity of 3.5
MGD and will be available for potential future recycled water use.
(l) Emergency Storage – (2) existing percolation ponds (Nos. 2 and 3) will
be reconstructed as a single, lined emergency storage pond.
The basis of design, part of the ROWD, projected that the up-graded plant
will discharge effluent with estimated total nitrogen of 8.4 mg/L at a flow rate
of 4 MGD. The Design Summary Technical Memorandum (engineer of
record, James Mathews) estimates that the total nitrogen will be an average
of 8.3 mg/L at the same flow. The Discharger expects that the total nitrogen
limit established in Order

===PLANNED CHANGES===

