Discharger had no recycled water customers, and therefore did not complete an
Engineering Report nor obtained water recycling requirements to produce and deliver
recycled water. The Discharger proceeded to shut down the tertiary treatment plant and
diverted all wastewater to the evaporation/oxidation ponds.
As a result of findings and time schedules contained in Board Order No.
R6V-2015-0069 to address pond leakage, the Discharger proposes to re-activate the
secondary treatment train of the 0.50 MGD plant, not operate the tertiary components,
and construct a larger, similar secondary treatment plant. Thus, instead of producing
tertiary treated recycled water, the Facility will produce secondary, denitrified effluent
and convert the two newest oxidation/evaporation Ponds 15 and 17, located south of
Rosamond CSD - 5 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
the treatment facility, into a series of percolation ponds for effluent disposal, as shown
on Attachment B. The upgraded Facility will be comprised of the following components
and its treatment flow process illustrated in Attachment C.
a. Collection System and Head Works – To achieve optimal treatment quality, the
plant has a design flow rate of 1.27 MGD and it is estimated that the average daily
wastewater flow will be 1.18 MGD. The headworks consists of the influent pump
station, bar screen, and a grit removal/classification system. The bar screen is
operated as a traveling chain-and-link system that removes large solids. Screenings
are removed and disposed offsite periodically. Influent is pumped through a vortex
grit chamber at grade. Grit slurry collected in the vortex grit chamber is pumped to a
vortex grit separator and classifier for dewatering.
b. Septage Receiving Station and Holding Pond – Prior to Facility upgrades, septage
was delivered to evaporation/oxidation Pond 11. As part of the upgrade process, the
southwest side of existing Pond 11 will be converted into a septage receiving
station. Septage from the receiving station is passed through a coarse screen to
remove large solids before proceeding to an 80-mil high density polyethylene
(HDPE) lined septage holding pond. The aerated and mixed septage holding pond
will contain approximately 90,000 gallons of septage waste and have a top surface
area of 4,950 square feet at freeboard. Flows from the septage holding pond will
discharge to the headworks at a controlled rate where they will mix with incoming
influent and continue with the treatment process.
c. Secondary Treatment Plant – Proposed upgrades to the treatment plant will provide
secondary treatment that feeds influent from the headworks into two Biolac aeration
basins and two secondary clarifiers. Biolac is a propriety technology using a lined
basin, or pond, with a series of suspended aerators for extended aeration, activated
sludge treatment. Denitrification is achieved by creating a series of oxic and anoxic
zones within the basin. The Discharger is re-adjusting the flow capacity of the
existing Biolac basin to treat 0.35 MGD and constructing a new Biolac basin to treat
0.92 MGD for a combined total design flow of 1.27 MGD. The existing secondary
clarifier has a 45-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet while the new secondary
clarifier will have a 65-foot diameter and a depth of 16 feet.
d. Evaporation/Oxidation Ponds – The existing 16 evaporation/oxidation ponds will be
used until upgrades are completed, tested, and successfully placed online. Some of
these ponds will be repurposed to serve as percolation ponds, septage receiving
pond, and emergency overflow pond. The remaining unused ponds will then be
abandoned. After sludge in these lagoons is sufficiently dry, all remaining sludge in
the lagoon bottoms will be removed and hauled offsite for proper disposal as
authorized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA).
e. Solids Handling – Waste sludge will be disposed into six new lined drying beds and
five of the six existing lined drying beds. One of the existing six beds will need to be
removed to make room for a new secondary clarifier. The six new beds will be
slightly larger to make up for the area lost by removing one of the existing beds.
Overall, the volume of the total beds will be double the volume of the current six
Rosamond CSD - 6 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
existing beds. The existing beds are lined with 60-mil HDPE and the new beds will
be lined with 80-mil HDPE. Dried sludge (biosolids) are hauled offsite for
disposal/reuse at an authorized reuse or disposal site. Disposal of solids at the
treatment/disposal site is not authorized.
f. Percolation Pond System – Denitrified, undisinfected secondary effluent will be sent
to Ponds 15 and 17, which will be modified into three percolation ponds each with a
depth of seven feet. Provisions have been made to add a potential fourth
percolation pond, if needed. The three percolation ponds will be operated on a
3-month rotation, one in service and two out of service. After drying, the pond
bottoms will be scarified to improve percolation rates.
g. Recycled Water Treatment – The facility will not produce recycled water or have
recycled water treatment requirements.
h. Effluent Quality - The upgraded plant will produce denitrified, undisinfected,
secondary effluent that will be discharged to three new percolation ponds. The
proposed effluent quality after the plant is upgraded is described in the table below.
Proposed Treatment Plant Effluent Quality
Constituent Concentration
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) (5-day at 20°C) 20 mg/L
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 16 mg/L
Total Inorganic Nitrogen (TIN)1 < 10 mg/L
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) 480 mg/L
1Total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) includes ammonia plus nitrate and nitrite.
9. Authorized Disposal Sites
This Board Order authorizes the discharge of primary effluent to the existing
evaporation/oxidation ponds until the time schedule specified in this Board Order
requires discharge of denitrified, undisinfected secondary treated effluent to three
percolation ponds that were part of Ponds 15 and 17 prior to rehabilitation/construction
of the percolation ponds.
10. Recycled Water Exception
As stated in CCR, title 22, section 60303, recycled water requirements do not apply to
the use of recycled water onsite at a water recycling plant, or wastewater treatment
plant, provided access by the public to the area of onsite recycled water use is
restricted.
Discharge to unauthorized locations are prohibited by this Board Order.
11. Recycled Water
Recycled water treatment or use is not authorized by this Board Order.
Rosamond CSD - 7 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
12. Industrial Pretreatment Program
An industrial pretreatment program is not required by this Board Order; however, the
MRP requires annual reporting of the Discharger’s industrial pretreatment program
activities.
13. Land Uses
The Facility is located in Kern County approximately four miles northeast of the
intersection of State Route 138 (SR-138) and SR-14 in the community of Rosamond
and just north of the Los Angeles County line. Commercial and residential areas are
located to the northwest, west, and southwest. To the east of the Facility is Edwards Air
Force Base, containing Rosamond Dry Lake. The Kern County, Rosamond Specific
Plan, designates the Facility land use as “Other Facilities.” Land immediately west of
the Facility is zoned for “Heavy Industrial” use.
14. Site Topography
The natural ground-surface at the Facility vicinity is flat and slopes in an easterly
direction toward Rosamond Dry Lake at a gradient of approximately 0.005 feet/foot.
Rosamond Dry Lake is located approximately 2.5 miles east of the site.
15. Climatology
The Antelope Valley, in which the Facility is located, has an arid climate characterized
by infrequent rainfall, cold winters and hot summers, and low relative humidity. The
mean annual temperature is 80.6 degrees (°) Fahrenheit (F) and ranges from a high of
110° F in the summer to a low of 12° F in the winter. Precipitation in the vicinity of the
Facility averages 4 inches annually. The maximum expected precipitation for a
24-hour, 100-year frequency design storm event is approximately 3.81 inches per hour.
16.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned upgrades
will improve receiving groundwater quality with respect to nitrogen, but not remove
TDS. In the future, the Water Board may separately require the Discharger to
cleanup underlying polluted groundwater. The Discharger intends its improved
effluent quality discharged to groundwater to provide credit from the Antelope Valley
Watermaster for municipal groundwater production allowances.
d. Economic considerations – Costs to construct the upgraded Facility that will meet
Basin Plan water quality objectives is an estimated $11,350,000. The Discharger
will apply for and may receive some level of support from state loan or grant
opportunities for construction of the upgraded Facility. The costs associated with
continued Facility operation are similar to costs for other communities. Further
upgrade of the Facility to remove TDS, such as installation of a reverse osmosis
(RO) system or an ion exchange system is not currently economically feasible for
the community of Rosamond.
e. The need for developing housing within the region – Continued operation and
eventual expansion or modification of the treatment plant is needed to treat
domestic wastewater from the growing Rosamond community and protect receiving
water beneficial uses.
f. The need to develop and use recycled water – This Board Order does not establish
requirements for recycled water. Under this Board Order, the Facility will provide
denitrified, undisinfected secondary treated effluent to three new percolation ponds
for groundwater recharge.
29. Human Right to Safe, Clean, Affordable, and Accessible Water
CWC, section 106.3, establishes a state policy that every human being has the right to
safe, clean, affordable, and accessible water adequate for human consumption,
cooking, and sanitary purposes and directs state agencies to consider this policy when
adopting regulations pertinent to those uses of water. This Board Order promotes that
policy by prohibiting the discharge from causing further groundwater pollution and
Rosamond CSD - 14 - Board Order No. R6V-2019-0251
Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility WDID No. 6B150112001
Kern County
establishing a new nitrogen