sub-regional plant:
• influent pump station and pumps
• fine screens
• grit removal
• membrane bioreactor (MBR) technology
• ultraviolet disinfection
MBR technology combines aerobic treatment, anoxic treatment, and membrane
filtration resulting in a tertiary treated, nitrogen reduced effluent. Ultraviolet
disinfection is commonly referred to as UV disinfection.
The Producer/Discharger plans to construct the sub-regional plant in phases.
Phase I will be a 1 MGD plant, Phase II will be a 1 MGD expansion to 2 MGD, and
Phase III will be a 2 MGD expansion to 4 MGD. This Order covers WDRs and
WRRs for Phase I.
Collected solids from the fine screens and grit removal will be transported offsite to
an authorized solid waste disposal facility. Biosolids from the aerobic treatment,
anoxic treatment, and membrane bioreactor filtration system are discharged to the
community sewage collection system where they will be treated at the regional
plant.
The sub-regional plant treatment flow-sheet is presented in Attachment C.
6. Recycled Water Uses and Disposal
The Producer/Discharger plans to produce disinfected tertiary recycled water for
the following uses within the Hesperia community:
• Landscape or turf irrigation areas
• Industrial uses for cooling or other purposes
7. Authorized Disposal Area/Site
The authorized disposal site is the land discharge site. Disinfected tertiary
recycled water produced in excess of recycled water demands will be discharged
VVWRA – CITY OF HESPERIA - 4 - BOARD ORDER NO.
HESPERIA SUB-REGIONAL RP R6V-2013-0005
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360907005
to the land discharge site. The location of the sub-regional plant and the land
discharge site are shown in Facility Location Map. (Attachment A and B)
8. Current Disposal Practice
Wastewater is currently treated at the regional plant.
9. Recycled Water Use Requirements
The California Department of Public Health’s (CDPH) established criteria for the
use of recycled water. These criteria are codified in California Code of
Regulations, article 3 of chapter 3 of division 4, title 22, section 60303 et seq. This
Order requires producers and users of recycled water to comply with applicable
California Code of Regulations (CCR), title 22 criteria.
As required under CCR, title 22, section 60323, the Discharger must submit an
Engineering Report to CDPH, and obtain its approval, for the production,
distribution and use of recycled water. VVWRA’s status in fulfilling this
requirement is the following:
a. The Producer/Discharger submitted the revised Title 22 Engineering Report
to CDPH on November 30, 2011, as required in CCR, title 22, CCR, section
60323.
b. CDPH issued a Title 22 engineering report comment letter to the Water Board
on January 24, 2012. CDPH commented that an amended Title 22 report
which identifies the recycled water distribution system and specific recycled
water use sites, including use area inspections, monitoring and employee
training, will need to be submitted to the Department for review and approval
prior to any production and delivery of recycled water. Implementation of this
comment is included in the requirements of this Order.
10. Title 27 California Code of Regulations (CCR) Exemption
As provided in title 27, CCR, section 20090(a), the following discharges are
exempt from the State Water Resources Control Board regulations:
“Sewage - Discharges of domestic sewage or treated effluent which are regulated
by WDRs issued pursuant to Chapter 9, Division 3, Title 23 of this code, or for
which WDRs have been waived, and which are consistent with applicable water
quality objectives, and treatment or storage facilities associated with municipal
wastewater treatment plants, provided that residual sludges or solid waste from
wastewater treatment facilities shall be discharged only in accordance with the
applicable SWRCB-promulgated provisions of this division.”
VVWRA – CITY OF HESPERIA - 5 - BOARD ORDER NO.
HESPERIA SUB-REGIONAL RP R6V-2013-0005
San Bernardino County WDID NO. 6B360907005
As the State Water Resources Control Board described in its Lodi decision1,
subsection 20090(a) actually contains two distinct exemptions: 1) a conditional
“sewage exemption” and 2) and unconditional “sewage treatment plant
exemption.”
The discharges of treated wastewater to the percolation ponds meet the pre-
conditions for Title 27 sewage exemption because they meet the following criteria:
(1) The discharge to the percolation ponds is regulated by this Order.
(2) The discharge of treated wastewater to the percolation ponds complies
with the Basin Plan because the discharge of treated effluent must attain

===PLANNED CHANGES===

