degradation of groundwater caused by the discharge. Cease and Desist Order
(COO) No. R6V-2004-0039 was adopted by the Water Board on October 13, 2004.
The COO requires the Discharger to reduce and abate land spreading disposal of
effluent and sets discharge limits on total nitrogen.
6. Reason for Action
The Water Board is adopting the current WDRsNVRRs to combine previous
amendments and to update requirements based on current and planned
Reclamation Plant upgrades and water recycling practices.
LACSD No. 20, Palmdale -4- BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2011-0012
los Angeles County WDID NO. 6B190107069
7. Facility
a. Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant - The Secondary Treatment
Reclamation Plant provides primary and secondary treatment (aerated oxidation
ponds) for up to 15 million gallons per day (MGD) of waste water. The
Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant currently treats approximately 10 MGD
and serves approximately 140,000 people. Secondary waste water treatment is
provided by primary sedimentation tanks, anaerobic digesters, and unlined
oxidation ponds. Additional treatment is provided by the oxidation pond
aeration system and disinfection facilities (chlorination) as shown in the
Facilities Process Schematic included as Attachment D, which is made a part of
this Order. The existing oxidation ponds will continue to operate during start-up
and testing of the Tertiary Treatment Reclamation Plant.
b. Agricultural Site (formerly Effluent Management Site) - Secondary-level treated,
disinfected effluent is currently reused at the Agricultural Site. The Agricultural
Site consists of approximately 2,680 acres used for irrigated agriculture in
Township 6 North, Range 11 West, San Bemardino Baseline and Meridian:
sections 10 and 15 and portions of sections 9, 11, 14, and 16 as shown on
Attachment C.
c. Storage Reservoir Site - Two storage reservoirs (Reservoirs Nos. 1 and 2) have
been completed and are in use at the Storage Reservoir Site. The two
reservoirs have a total storage capacity of approximately 910 million gallons
(MG). Secondary treated waste water is stored in the storage reservoirs for use
as irrigation water at the AgricUltural Site during summer months. After the
completion of the Tertiary Treatment Reclamation Plant, the storage reservoirs
will be used to store tertiary treated waste water for reuse. Projections indicate
that an additional 1,540 MG of storage capacity may be needed by the year
2017. Additional reservoirs are planned to meet this projected need. The
Storage Reservoir Site is shown on Attachment E, which is made a part of this
Order.
d. Tertiary Treatment Reclamation Plant - The Tertiary Treatment Reclamation
Plant is designed to upgrade the level of treatment and to serve an estimated
population of 170,000. Construction on the Tertiary Treatment Reclamation
Plant began in September 2008. Start-up of the plant is planned for July 2011.
Construction will proceed in two steps, Phase I, which will have a treatment
capacity of 12 MGD, and Phase II, which will increase the treatment capacity to
15 MGD to meet projected population growth. The effluent generated by the
Tertiary Treatment Reclamation Plant will be disinfected tertiary recycled water,
as shown in the Tertiary Treatment Reclamation Plant Process Schematic
included as Attachment F, which is made a part of this Order.
LACSD No. 20, Palmdale -5- BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2011-0012
Los Angeles County WOlD NO. 6B190107069
8. Biosolids
a. Secondary Treatment Reclamation Plant - Sludge from the anaerobic digesters
is dried in the concrete-lined drying beds, stockpiled, and hauled off site for
disposal.
b. Tertiarv Treatment Reclamation Plant - The Tertiary Treatment Reclamation
Plant design includes dissolved air flotation units, which will thicken waste
activated sludge. Filter backwash will be routed to the sedimentation tanks.·
Existing and new digesters will process both primary sludge and thickened
waste activated sludge. Digested sludge will be mechanically dewatered and/or
solar dried in existing sludge drying beds before offsite disposal or reuse. The
two existing sludge drying beds may continue to be used to dry dewatered
sludge cake, to dry sludge generated during .digester cleaning operations, and
as a backup for mechanical dewatering. Each sludge drying bed is·0.2 acre in
size and has a 4-inch thick, asphalt-concrete liner.
9. California Code of Regulations, Title 27 Reguirements
California Water Code section 13172 directs the State Water Resources Control
Board (State Water Board) to write regulations for waste disposal sites to protect
water quality "except for sewage treatment plants..." Those regulations are now
incorporated in the California Code of Regulations title 27 for waste disposal sites
and surface impoundments. The Reclamation Plant has primary ponds for the
treatment of the wastewater. These treatment ponds are exempt from title 27
under section 20090(a), and regulation of the treatment ponds under California
Code of Regulations title 23 is appropriate.
The Reservoir Storage and Agricultural sites are not part of the treatment process,
but are exempt under title 27 section 20090(h), which applies to. recycling from
waste. Additionally, the Storage Reservoir and Agricultural sites meet the
exception requirements for waste water as contained in section 20090(b), that is:
• This Order issues waste discharge requirements for the sites;
• Discharges to these sites are in compliance with the applicable water quality
control plan; and
• These discharges do not meet the specified hazardous waste criteria.
The conditions for exemption under section 20090(b) will be met with the adoption
of this Order. Although historic application practices at the Agricultural Site has
caused an exceedance of the Water Quality Control Plan for the Lahontan Region
Basin Plan (Basin Plan) objective for nitrate in groundwater (see Finding No. 16),
this Order contains requirements to ensure the Storage Reservoir and Agricultural
sites do not create conditions that result in an exceedance of Basin Plan objectives.
LACSD No. 20, Palmdale -6- BOARD ORDER NO. R6V-2011-0012
Los Angeles County WOlD NO. 6B190107069
Additionally, this Order and prior orders require the Discharger to implement
measures that ensure that construction, operation, and monitoring at the Storage
Reservoir and Agricultural sites are equivalent to title 27 requirements. The
reservoirs have membrane liners designed to prevent releases and a vadose
monitoring network to provide an early warning system for potential releases. This
Order requires that the application rates at the Agricultural Site not exceed
agronomic rates. Additionally, this Order requires the continued operation of the
existing vadose zone and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

