9.3. Sewer Collection System
Domestic and industrial wastewater from authorized dischargers is delivered to the
Discharger’s main trunk sewer collection system for delivery to the Facility’s headworks.
9.4. Septage Receiving
The Facility accepts liquid waste consisting of portable toilet, septic tank, and cesspool
wastes of domestic origin in compliance with 40 CFR 4035(b)(8). Approximately 85,000
gallons per month were received in 2019. The Facility liquid waste handling station
consists of a septage interceptor connected to the trunk sewer. The trunk sewer directs
flow to the plant headworks for treatment. Grit removal from the interceptor is conducted
on a biweekly basis.
9.5. Headworks
The headworks consists of an influent pump station, comminutors, bar screen, aerated
grit chambers, and primary sedimentation. There are six primary sedimentation tanks
that are operated in parallel. Primary sludge and skimmings are pumped to the
anaerobic digestion system.
9.6. Secondary Treatment
Following primary sedimentation, effluent is pumped into nine aeration tanks divided
into three aeration units operating in parallel with biological nitrification and
denitrification. The secondary clarifiers consist of 14 tanks operating in parallel. Return
activated sludge is sent back to one of each aeration tank. Waste activated sludge is
sent to the dissolved air flotation system prior to being sent to the anaerobic digestion
system.
9.7. Recycled Water Treatment
Effluent is disinfected with chloramine (ammonia and sodium hypochlorite) prior to
entering six dual media gravity filters for reduction of turbidity and suspended solids.
Filtrate is sent to chlorine contact tanks while backwash is sent to influent sewer or
aeration tanks. Chlorine contact tanks provide residence time for disinfection by
chloramines, which are formed by the addition of ammonia and sodium hypochlorite to
the effluent.
9.7.1. Recycled Water Exceptions
As stated in the CCR, title 22, section 60303, recycled water requirements do not apply
to recycled water used onsite at a water recycling plant or wastewater treatment plant,
provided access by the public to the area of onsite recycled water use is restricted.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 18 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster Board Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No. 6B190107017
9.7.2. Recycled Water Requirements
This Board Order includes water-recycling Producer requirements for the wastewater
treatment plant and User requirements for Piute Ponds and the EAS. It requires the
Discharger to comply with Uniform Statewide Reclamation Criteria (CCR, title 22,
sections 60301 through 60355) established pursuant to CWC, section 13521. As
required under CCR, title 22, section 60323, the Discharger has completed an
engineering report for the Facility. User requirements for all other recycled water uses
are established in the MWRRs.
Discharge to unauthorized locations is prohibited by this Board Order.
9.7.3. Recycled Water Use
Currently, the Discharger delivers recycled water under MWRRs issued in Board Order
No. R6V-2009-0141. The following uses of disinfected tertiary recycled water are
permitted under the MWRRs.
• Irrigation for parks and playgrounds
• Irrigation for school yards
• Irrigation for residential landscaping (non-individually owned common areas)
• Irrigation for golf courses (both restricted and unrestricted access)
• Irrigation for cemeteries
• Irrigation for freeways and greenbelt landscaping
• Irrigation for landfills
• Consolidation of backfill (around potable and non-potable pipes)
• Firefighting (both structural and non-structural)
• Mixing concrete
• Soil compaction
• Decorative fountains
• Flushing sanitary sewers
• Flushing toilets and urinals
• Dust control for construction activities (includes demolition)
• Dust control on roads and streets
• Dust control at landfills
• Commercial laundries
• Priming drain traps
• Cleaning roads (street sweeping), sidewalks, and outdoor work areas
The State Water Board adopted the following related to recycled water.
• Criteria for the treatment and use of recycled water in CCR, title 22, section
60001 et seq.
Los Angeles County Sanitation - 19 - Waste Discharge Requirements
District No. 14 Lancaster Board Order No.R6V-2022-0023
Los Angeles County WDID No. 6B190107017
• The Water Quality Control Policy for Recycled Water (Policy1) to encourage the
safe use of Recycled Water from wastewater sources that meet the definition in
CWC, section 13050(n).
• Board Order WQ 2016-0068-DWQ allowing entities to enroll for coverage to
become an Administrator of recycled water. Eligible permittees must submit a
Title 22 Engineering Report to the Department of Drinking Water (DDW) for
review and approval along with a Notice of Intent application for coverage to the
Water Board.
The Discharger is in the process of applying for coverage as a Producer and
Administrator of recycled water under State Water Board Order No. 2016-0068-DWQ. If
the coverage is obtained, State Water Board Order No. 2016-0068-DWQ would replace
the use area authorizations adopted in the MWRRs. This provides consistency with the
Policy for recycled water uses and establishes recycled water treatment requirements
that encourage the safe use of recycled water that protects health and the environment.
The DDW, under CCR, title 22, section 60305, classified Piute Pond as restricted
recreational impoundment. Recycled water discharged to Piute Ponds must meet at
least disinfected secondary-2.2 recycled water. Recycled water used for surface
irrigation at the EAS for livestock fiber and fodder crops per CCR, title 22, section
60304, must be at least undisinfected secondary recycled water.
9.8. Effluent Quality
The Facility will produce disinfected, tertiary-treated effluent that will be discharged to
lined Stage V Reservoirs, internal plant uses, EAS, Piute Ponds, and other authorized
recycled water uses under the Discharger’s Administrator authority.
9.8.1. Effluent Wastewater Quality

===PLANNED CHANGES===

