[Page 76]
2. FACILITY DESCRIPTION
The Discharger owns and operates a wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
system (Facility) that provides sewerage service to the Coachella Valley; City of La
Quinta, Mecca, Palm Desert, and Thousand Palms with a service population of
approximately 63,000. The wastewater treatment plant has a treatment (design)
capacity of 9.9 million gallons per day (MGD) and is located in the Sections 2, T17S,
R8E, SBB&M26.
2.A. Discharge of Wastewater Treatment and Controls
The Facility consists of two treatment systems running in parallel: a lagoon treatment
system rated at 7.0 million gallons per day (MGD) and a Biolac® activated sludge
treatment system rated at 2.9 MGD. The headworks system two automatic bar
screens, conveyor, two grinder-washer compactors, a grit channel, grit pump, grit
cyclone separator, and influent pump dry well with three influent pumps. All headworks
buildings are equipped with fresh air ventilation and foul air odor scrubbers. The
influent flow from the headworks is distributed to five treatment modules. Four of the
treatment modules are part of the lagoon treatment system and one treatment module
is part of the Biolac® activated sludge treatment system. Each of the four lagoon
treatment modules are comprise of four lined aerated lagoonsand two lined polishing
ponds (a total of 16 aeration lagoons and 8 polishing ponds). All lagoonsare lined with
a synthetic membrane liner. The activated sludge treatment system consists of two
activated sludge basins, two secondary clarifiers and sludge handling facilities
(including a gravity belt thickener and gravity belt filter press). Combined secondary
effluent from each lagoon system module and the Biolac® system is conveyed to the
chlorine contact basin to be disinfected and de-chlorinated prior to discharge into the
Coachella Valley Storm Water Channel, using a chemical induction unit which employs
a vacuum and gas system capable of dispersing the chlorine and sulfur dioxide gas
with an airfoil design propeller. In addition, 3 peristaltic pumps provide sodium bisulfite
liquid solution for de-chlorination.
Screening solids removed from the headworks system are routed to a grinderwasher/
compactor unit where the soft organics are separated from the screenings and
returned to the process flow stream. The screenings are grinded, washed and then
compacted and transferred to a roll off dumpster. Subsequently, the screenings are
hauled off site for disposal at a County of Riverside landfill. A liquid bleach disinfectant
is manually applied to the screenings in the dumpster.
26 San Bernardino Base & Meridian
F-5
ATTACHMENT F – FACT SHEET
[Page 77]
COACHELLA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT ORDER R7-2023-0013
MID-VALLEY WATER RECLAMATION PLANT NO. 4 NPDES NO. CA0104973
Waste activated sludge is pumped from the two secondary clarifiers to a single
1.5-meter gravity belt thickener. The sludge is conditioned with a cationic emulsion
polymer before entering the thickener. The thickened waste activated sludge flows to a
48,000-gallon sludge holding tank and is then pumped to a single 2-meter gravity belt
filter press where it is dewatered. The dewatered sludge is discharged into a truck
trailer before being hauled off site by a private hauler for composting.
The polishing ponds in the aeration lagoon system are dredged to remove
accumulated solids at a rate of approximately one pond per year. Dredged solids are
deposited in unlined drying beds (8 total). The solids are periodically transferred to a
storage area for continued drying before transport off site by a private hauler for
composting.
Approximately 760 dry metric tons of sewage sludge is generatedon site per year,
which includes sludge removed from the aeration lagoons and activated sludge
treatment system. The Discharger stockpiles the sludge removed from the lagoons to
dry it to at least 90 percent solids. Sludge removed from the activated sludge treatment
system is removed from the facility on a frequent basis (e.g. multiple times per month)
after processing in the gravity belt filter press unit. Currently, sludge from the facility
has been hauled away to the Synagro Arizona Soils Composting facility in Vicksburg,
Arizona.
2.B. Discharge Points and Receiving Waters
Final effluent is discharged through Discharge Point 001 at Latitude 33° 35’ 33”
North and Longitude 116° 07’ 13” West, to the Coachella Valley Storm Water
Channel, tributary to the Salton Sea, waters of the US. The permitted maximum
daily flow limitation is equal to the design capacity of the wastewater treatment plant,
which is 9.9 MGD. The discharge consists of secondary treated wastewater.
2.C. Summary of Previous Requirements and Self-Monitoring (SMR) Data
Effluent limitations contained in Order R7-2017-0006 for discharges from Discharge
Point 001 (Monitoring Location EFF-001) and representative monitoring data from
the term of the that order are as follows in Table F-2:
Table F-2. Historic Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Data
Highest Highest
High

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes
The Discharger indicated in the Report of Waste Discharge submitted on December
2, 2021, that there are planned changes at the Facility. The discharger has initiated
the WRP 4 Non Potable Water (NPW) Improvements Project (NPW Project) in three
phases (Phases 1, 2, and 3). Phase l is currently under design and includes diversion
of 1.0 MGD of secondary effluent (expandable to 2.5 MGD) to a Title 22 compliant
tertiary filtration and disinfection system to deliver recycled water (NPW) to nearby
agricultural customers for unrestricted irrigation. The Project also includes Phase 1B
Planning Phases 2 and 3 that provide for future expansion of treatment and
distribution of up to 2.5 MGD, and 10 MGD, respectively. The Phase l project design
is currently 30 percent complete and includes a Filter Feed Pump Station, Tertiary
Filters utilizing cloth disk filters, ultraviolet (UV) disinfection, a recycled water pump
station, seasonal and operational storage, electrical building, and a chemical storage
and feed system (sodium hypochlorite). Off-site facilities for Phase 1 include a
pressurized distribution system to three customers south of WRP 4. Planning for
Phases 2 and 3 provide for either a pressure distribution system to select agricultural
customers or a system utilizing the existing irrigation lateral system to all agricultural
customers. Anticipated design completion of Phase 1 is pending. The project will be
included in