[Page 49]
The AWPF is located at 18700 Ward Street, Fountain Valley in Orange County. It
includes treatment processes and pumping stations. The AWPF treatment design
capacity is currently 100 mgd for FAT recycled water production. The production of FAT
recycled water started in January 2008. The Facility is undergoing expansion for a
treatment design capacity of 130 mgd by early 2023. The facility expansion will include
accepting a new influent source, secondary treated effluent from OC San’s Treatment
Plant No. 2 (TP-2).
The advanced treatment processes are as follows:
a. Fine Screening: Secondary treated wastewater from OC San’s RP-1 is strained,
or passed through rotating band fine-mesh screens, and chlorinated (as needed)
prior to microfiltration. Screenings are dewatered and returned to OC San for
disposal.
b. Microfiltration: Screened secondary effluent flows via gravity to 26 in-basin
microfiltration (MF) cells containing submerged racks of hollow fiber membranes
with a maximum pore size of 0.2 micron. Sodium hypochlorite is added as
needed to the MF feed to form a low level (3-5 mg/L) of chloramine to
reduce/prevent fouling of the MF membranes. The waste backwash is returned to
OC San for treatment.
.
c. Reverse Osmosis. The RO process will be bypassed when AWPF effluent is
discharged to the Santa Ana River.
d. Advanced Oxidation/UV Disinfection: The advanced oxidation/disinfection
process (AOP) consists of two steps: hydrogen peroxide addition and ultraviolet
(UV) light treatment. UV irradiation is used for disinfection and reduction of light-
sensitive contaminants. Hydrogen peroxide exposed to UV irradiation produces
hydroxyl radicals that result in advanced oxidation to destroy UV-resistant
contaminants. For direct discharge to the SAR, only UV treatment will be used.
The nominal reliable capacity of the UV system is 100 mgd.
e. Decarbonation and Lime Stabilization Process: This treatment process will be
bypassed when AWPF effluent is discharged to the SAR.
f. Dechlorination and pH adjustment: After UV disinfection and prior to discharge to
the SAR, the effluent stream may still contain some chloramines. Sodium
bisulfate will be added for dechlorination, if needed.
[Page 50]
Orange County Water District Order No. R8-2022-0002 NPDES
Groundwater Replenishment System No. CA8000408
Advanced Water Purification Facility Page F-6
Attachment F – Fact Sheet
Approximately, up to 33 mgd of membrane backwash, brine and start-up waste streams
are returned to OC San’s RP-1 and will not be discharged to the SAR, even under
emergency conditions or during discharge system testing periods.
B. Wastewater Description
This Order regulates discharges from the AWPF into Reach 1 of the SAR under
emergency conditions to provide flow relief when peak wastewater flows at OC San
approach the capacity of the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

