[Page 6]
4. Order No. R8-2015-0024, Findings, page 6, replace Section II.B., as follows:
B. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the MWRP and its
wastewater treatment systems consist of preliminary, primary, secondary, and
tertiary treatment. Recycled water is directly delivered from Discharge Point
001 (DP-001) to customers for irrigation and other recycled water reuse,
except for indirect or direct potable water reuse. Recycled water from MWRP
is discharged through DP-003, DP-004 and DP-007 to Rattlesnake Reservoir,
Sand Canyon Reservoir, and Syphon Reservoir respectively, for storage and
subsequent distribution. These three reservoirs are considered waters of the
United States. Under emergency conditions, the Discharger may discharge
stormwater or tertiary treated effluent through Discharge Point Storm-007 to
Reach 1 of San Diego Creek and stormwater, through Discharge Point Storm-
008, to San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh; which are tributary to Newport Bay.
The recycled water use areas overlie the Irvine Groundwater Management
Zone and the San Diego Regional Water Board’s Aliso Creek Hydrologic Sub-
area. Also, recycled water can be routed to the Orange County Sanitation
District (OCSD) for disposal through their ocean outfall and/or Orange County
Water District’s (OCWD) Green Acres Project’s (GAP’s) recycled water
distribution system. Both OCSD’s ocean outfall discharge and OCWD’s GAP
are regulated by this Regional Water Board under separate permits.
Because of high groundwater elevation at the MWRP site, dewatering of the
shallow groundwater zone is necessary to protect in-ground facilities. The
area is dewatered through a network of shallow zone wells with two separate
discharge points. These discharge points discharge either into Reach 1 of
San Diego Creek or into the San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh. Reach 1 of San
Diego Creek and San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh are tributaries to San Diego
Creek and waters of the U.S. Order No. R8-2007-0003 also regulated the
discharges from these dewatering wells; however, this Order does not regulate
[Page 7]
Order No. R8-2018-0070, Amending Order No. R8-2015-0024
Michelson and Los Alisos Water Recycling Plants
Irvine Ranch Water District Page 8 of 38
the groundwater dewatering discharges from the MWRP (see Attachment F of
this Order for details).
Also, the Discharger owns and operates the LAWRP and its wastewater
treatment processes include preliminary, secondary, and tertiary treatment.
Furthermore, the Discharger distributes from LAWRP Tertiary-2.2 recycled
water, which is produced at the Facilities, through DP-008 to use areas located
within the boundaries of this Regional Water Board and the San Diego
Regional Water Board, in the City of Lake Forest, for irrigation and other
recycled water reuse, except groundwater rec

===PLANNED CHANGES===

Planned Changes, page F-16, replace the last paragraph of Section
II.E., as follows:
IRWD is constructing a Biosolids Handling and Energy Recovery Facility at the
MWRP site, which would treat wastes from both Facilities, and includes the
construction and/or installation of sludge thickening equipment, anaerobic
digesters, centrifuges for sludge dewatering, sludge drying equipment,
anaerobically digestable material receiving station, and microturbines for
generation of electricity and heat. The microturbines would operate with biogas
produced in the anaerobic digesters. IRWD anticipates completion of the Biosolids
[Page 26]
Order No. R8-2018-0070, Amending Order No. R8-2015-0024
Michelson and Los Alisos Water Recycling Plants
Irvine Ranch Water District Page 27 of 38
Handling and Energy Recovery Facility by mid-2020. In addition, IRWD is
pursuing the expansion of its recycled water storage capacity at Syphon Reservoir
to almost 10 times the current reservoir