B. Facility Description. The Discharger owns and operates the Water Recycling
Plant and its wastewater treatment processes include: preliminary treatment
that consist of influent flow metering, mechanical bar-screening, aerated grit
chamber, and fine screening (rote-strainers); influent flow equalization; odor
control with inorganic media filter beds; secondary treatment that consists of an
activated sludge process with limited nutrient removal
(nitrification/denitrification) and one secondary effluent holding pond; tertiary
treatment system that uses rotating-disk cloth filters and disinfection with
chlorine (chlorine contact basin). The secondary effluent holding pond covers
approximately 2.5 acres and is used to store, temporarily, secondary effluent
under emergency conditions when the Facility is not able to dispose of the
secondary effluent through the ocean outfall. Normally, the secondary effluent
stored in the holding pond is gravity fed to the wet-well of the ocean outfall pump
station. The Facility is designed to treat up to 6.0 mgd of wastewater to
secondary treatment standards and up to 4.0 mgd of tertiary-2.2 recycled water.
Also, the Discharger has constructed a recycled water distribution system
composed of a storage tank, pump station, and approximately 19 miles of
pipeline. The recycled water use areas are located within the boundaries of this
Regional Water Board and the San Diego Regional Water Board, in the Cities
of Laguna Woods and Laguna Hills. Attachment B is a location and vicinity map
for this facility. Attachment C is a flow schematic of the treatment systems.
5. Order No. R8-2015-0023, Findings, page 6, replace Section 11.C., as follows:
C. Legal Authorities. This Order serves as Waste Discharge Requirements
(WDRs) pursuant to Article 4, Chapter 4, Division 7 of the California Water
Code (c ommencing with section 13260) and as a master reclamation permit
pursuant to Section 13523.1 of Article 4, Chapter 7, Division 7 of the
California Water Code. In addition, this Order includes reclamation
specification for the use of recycled water produced at ETWD's Facility at
use areas located within the jurisdictional boundaries of the San Diego
Regional Water Board, in the Cities of Laguna Woods and Laguna Hills, in
accordance with a Regional Water Board designation request made by
Order No. RB-2019-0052, Amending Order No. RB-2015-0023 Page 5 of 16
El Toro Water District's Water Recycling Plant
ETWD pursuant to Section 13228(a) of the California Water Code. The San
Diego and this Regional Water Boards agreed with ETWD's request to
designate this Regional Water Board as the sole Regional Water Board for
regulating the ETWD's Water Recycling Plant. This designation became
effective on May 8, 2019 when the San Diego Regional Water Board adopted
Addendum No. 5 of Order No. 97-52 to exclude ETWD from coverage under
Order No. 97-52.
6. Order No. RB-2015-0023, Findings, page 7, replace Section 11.G., as follows:
G. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The requirements in this
Order are based on information submitted as part of the application and other
available information. Attachment F, which contains background information
and rationale for requirements in this Order, is hereby incorporated into this
Order, and thus constitutes a part of the Findings for this Order. Attachments
A, B, C, E, G, H, I, and J are also incorporated into this Order.
7. Order No. RB-2015-0023, Reclamation Specifications, page 8, replace Table 5 and
Section IV.A.2., as follows:
Table 5 Recycled Water Limitations at REC-001

===PLANNED CHANGES===

