Wastewater treatment unit operations and processes at the Facility consist of
influent screening using mechanical bar screens, aerated grit chambers, primary
sedimentation tanks, 1.5 million gallons of primary flow equalization basins with air-
activated sludge process and an anoxic selector zone, secondary clarifiers, mono-
media (anthracite) filters, and ultraviolet disinfection.
The Facility produces tertiary-treated recycled water depending on anticipated
recycled water demands. The recycled water is transferred through a recycled
water distribution system to qualified recycled water customers under separate
WDRs, Order No. 2000-203. During times with no recycled water demand, up to 15
MGD of secondary effluent is discharged to the Pacific Ocean through the South
Bay Ocean Outfall (SBOO). During times with high recycled water demand, the
entire effluent flow may be directed to tertiary treatment and reuse. At times when
recycled water demand is low, excess tertiary-treated recycled water that has been
treated via ultraviolet disinfection may also be discharged.
Solids removed through the screening and grit removal processes are hauled
offsite and disposed of in a landfill. Waste solids removed through the
sedimentation/clarification process are returned to the sewer system for transport
to the City of San Diego Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant, where they are
again removed and directed to anaerobic digesters at the Point Loma Wastewater
Treatment Plant for stabilization. After digestion, the solids are dewatered and
thickened for reuse as a soil amendment or for disposal.
The secondary treatment design capacity of the Facility is 18.0 MGD as a 30-day
average daily flow. The current maximum permitted flow is 15.0 MGD. From May
2013 to May 2019, the average influent flow to the Facility was 7.36 MGD and the
average effluent flow from the Facility to the SBOO was 3.25 MGD.
The City of San Diego maintains a United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) approved pretreatment program for the Facility administered by the
Industrial Wastewater Control Program of the Public Utilities Department. The
Discharger receives wastewater from six non-categorical Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs) and five Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs).
2.2.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

