surface water body.
3. COAGULATION ALTERNATIVE
Coagulation need not be used as part of the treatment process provided
that the filter effluent turbidity does not exceed 2 NTU, the turbidity of the
influent to the filters is continuously measured, the influent turbidity does
not exceed 5 NTU for more than 15 minutes and never exceeds 10 NTU,
and that there is capability to automatically activate chemical addition or
divert wastewater should the turbidity of the influent to the filters exceed 5
NTU for more than 15 minutes.
10
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements
4. DISINFECTION PROCESS
Disinfection of recycled water shall comply with all requirements of
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 4. Disinfection may be
accomplished by either:
a. A chlorine disinfection process that provides a CT (chlorine
concentration times modal contact time) value of not less than 450
mg-min/liter at all times with a modal chlorine contact time of at
least 90 minutes based on peak dry weather design flow; or
b. A disinfection process, that, when combined with the filtration
process, has been demonstrated to reduce the concentration of
plaque-forming units of F-specific bacteriophage MS2, or polio
virus, per unit volume of water in the wastewater to one hundred
thousandths (1/100,000) of the initial concentration in the filter
influent throughout the range of qualities of wastewater that will
occur during the recycling process. A virus that is at least as
resistant to disinfection as polio virus may be used for purposes of
the demonstration.
5. OPERATION MANUAL
A copy of the facility operations manual shall be maintained at the
FRGWRP and shall be available to operation personnel and Regional
Board staff upon request at all times. The following portions of the
operations manual shall be posted at the treatment plant as a quick
reference for treatment plant operators:
a. Alarm set points for secondary turbidity, tertiary turbidity and
chlorine residual.
b. Levels at which flow will be diverted for secondary turbidity, tertiary
turbidity and chlorine residual.
c. When to divert flow for high daily and weekly median total coliform.
d. When the authorities (State DHS, County DEH, Regional Board)
will be notified of a diversion.
e. Names and numbers of those authorities to be notified in case of a
diversion.
f. Frequency of calibration for turbidimeters and chlorine residual
analyzers.
11
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements
6. OPERATORS CERTIFICATION
The LWD’s wastewater treatment facilities shall be supervised and
operated by persons possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant
to Division 3, Chapter 26, Title 23 of the California Code of Regulations.
7. RUNOFF AND FLOOD PROTECTION
a. The discharge to any landscape impoundment, including the La
Costa Golf Course storage pond, shall be terminated whenever
rainfall or flooding is likely to cause the impoundment to overflow.
b. All waste treatment, storage and purveyance facilities, with the
exception of irrigation areas and the La Costa Golf Course storage
pond, shall be protected against 100-year peak stream flows as
defined by the San Diego County flood control agency.
c. All wastewater and recycled water storage facilities, with the
exception of irrigation areas and the La Costa Golf Course storage
pond, shall be protected against erosion, overland runoff, and other
impacts resulting from a 100-year, 24-hour frequency storm.
8. MONITORING AND REPORTING
The LWD shall comply with the attached Monitoring and Reporting
Program No. R9-2004-0223, and future revisions thereto as specified by
the Executive Officer. Monitoring results shall be reported at the intervals
specified in Monitoring and Reporting Program No. R9-2004-0223.
9. MAINTENANCE
A preventive maintenance program shall be provided at the FRGWRP
reclamation plant to ensure that all equipment is kept in a reliable
operating condition.
10. RELIABILITY REQUIREMENTS
The LWD’s facilities shall comply with all applicable reliability requirements
contained in Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3, Article 10, Alternative
Reliability Requirements for Uses Requiring Oxidized Disinfected
Wastewater or Oxidized, Coagulated, Clarified, Filtered, Disinfected
12
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements
Wastewater, of the California Code of Regulations.
E. BIOSOLIDS SPECIFICATIONS
1. Collected screenings, sludges, other solids removed from liquid wastes,
and filter backwash shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the
Executive Officer. Before sludge is disposed of by means other than
discharge to the EWPCF or a landfill regulated under waste discharge
requirements, the discharge shall submit written notification to the
Executive Officer of the proposed disposal method. Such disposal, use or
supply for reuse by others shall not be initiated until approved by the
Executive Officer.
2. Solids and sludge treatment, storage, and disposal or reuse shall not
create a nuisance, such as objectionable odors or flies, and shall not
result in groundwater contamination.
3. The solids and sludge treatment site and storage site shall have facilities
adequate to divert surface water runoff from adjacent areas, to protect the
boundaries of the site from erosion, and to prevent drainage from the
treatment and storage site. Adequate protection is defined as protection
from at least a 100-year storm and protection from the highest possible
tidal stage that may occur.
4. The discharge of sewage sludge and solids shall not cause waste material
to be in a position where it is, or can be, conveyed from the treatment and
storage sites and deposited in the waters of the state.
F. STANDARD PROVISIONS
1. ENFORCEMENT
The Regional Board may initiate enforcement action against the LWD,
which may result in the termination of the recycled water supply, if any
person uses, transports, or stores such water in a manner which creates,
or threatens to create conditions of pollution, contamination, or nuisance,
as defined in the California Water Code, Section 13050.
13
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements
2. DUTY TO COMPLY
The LWD must comply with all conditions of this Order. Any
noncompliance with this Order constitutes a violation of the California
Water Code and is grounds for (a) enforcement action; (b) termination,
revocation and reissuance, or modification of this Order; or (c) denial of a
report of waste discharge in application for new or revised master
reclamation permit requirements.
3. ENTRY AND INSPECTION
The LWD shall allow the Regional Board, or an authorized representative,
upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be
required by law to do the following:
a. Enter upon the LWD's premises where a regulated facility or activity
is located or conducted or where records must be kept under the
conditions of this Order,
b. Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that
must be kept under the conditions of this Order,
c. Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including
monitoring and control equipment), practices or operations
regulated or required under this Order, and
d. Sample or monitor, at reasonable times for the purposes of
assuring compliance with this Order or as otherwise authorized by
the California Water Code, any substances or parameters at any
location.
4. CIVIL MONETARY REMEDIES
The California Water Code provides that any person who intentionally or
negligently violates any master reclamation permit requirements issued,
reissued, or amended by this Regional Board shall be liable civilly in
accordance with California Water Code.
5. PENALTIES FOR INVESTIGATION, MONITORING OR INSPECTION
VIOLATIONS
The California Water Code provides that any person failing or refusing to
furnish technical or monitoring program reports, as required under this
Order, or falsifying any information provided in the monitoring reports is
14
Order No. R9-2004-0223 September 8, 2004
Waste Discharge Requirements
guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to a civil liability for each day in
which the violation occurs.
6. ENDANGERMENT OF HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT
The LWD shall report any noncompliance that may endanger health or the
environment. Any such information shall be provided orally to the
Executive Officer within 24 hours from the time the LWD becomes aware
of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be provided within 5
days of the time the LWD becomes aware of the circumstances. The
written submission shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its
cause; the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and
if the noncompliance has not been corrected; the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate,
and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance. The Executive Officer, or
an authorized representative, may waive the written report on a case-by-
case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours. The
following occurrence(s) must be reported to the Executive Officer within 24
hours:
a. Any bypass from any portion of the treatment facility that will result
in noncompliance with any of the terms and conditions of this
Order. "Bypass" means the intentional diversion of waste streams
from any portion of a treatment facility to other than a sewer
system.
b. Any discharge of non-disinfected effluent or untreated wastewater
that may endanger public health, or is greater than 1,000 gallons,
or reaches surface waters.
c. Any treatment plant upset which causes the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

