The ECAWP Project dismantled the majority of the Roy Stoyer WRF and replaced
it with the new 16 MGD ECWRF. The treatment processes at the ECWRF
includes, in order of flow:
· Screening and grit removal units.
· Primary clarifiers, with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal.
· An equalization tank.
· Bioreactors for nutrient removal, that include a 4-stage Bardenpho process.
· Secondary clarifiers, with ferric chloride for chemical phosphorus removal;
· Granular media filters (GMFs);
· A chlorine contact basin (remnant from the former Ray Stoyer WRF chlorine
contact basins).
· An odor control unit.
During normal operation, final effluent produced from the ECWRF will serve: 1) as
the source water for the ECAWP Facility, and 2) non-potable customers. The
production and reuse of tertiary treated disinfected non-potable recycled
wastewater will be regulated under separate WDRs and WRRs, as requested by
the Discharger.
2.1.2. Solids Handling Facility
The ECAWP JPA will treat sludge from the ECWRF primary and secondary
clarifiers at the Solids Handling Facility. The Solids Handling Facility will produce
Class B solids for beneficial use outside the state of California or for landfill
disposal. The treatment processes at the Solids Handling Facility includes a rotary
drum for sludge thickening, anaerobic digestion, digested sludge storage,
centrifuge dewatering, cake storage and loadout facilities, and biogas handling.
Sludge will be thickened before being fed to the anaerobic digesters. The digested
sludge will be dewatered and the centrate from dewatering will gravity flow to a
residuals bypass pump station. Thickener supernatant will be returned to the
ECWRF for treatment, while centrate will be discharged to the Metro System via a
residuals bypass pipeline.
2.1.3. ECAWP Facility
The ECAWP Facility will treat up to 15.2 MGD of tertiary filtered effluent from the
ECWRF to produce a maximum flow of 13.7 MGD of advanced treated recycled
water. The ECAWP JPA will direct a maximum of 12.5 MGD of advanced treated
recycled water to Lake Jennings and will direct the remainder to Santee Lakes.
The anticipated average annual product water flow to Lake Jennings will be about
11.5 MGD. Treatment processes at the ECAWP Facility consists of MF, reverse
osmosis, ultraviolet light with advanced oxidation process (UV/AOP) and post-
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-4
ECAWP JPA Order No. R9-2025-0003
Discharges to Lake Jennings and Sycamore Creek NPDES No. CA900001
stabilization. The ECAWP JPA will minimize corrosion and treatability issues, by
using a post-stabilization treatment of carbon dioxide and hydrated lime to adjust
the product water pH to between 7.5 and 8.5 pH units and to elevate alkalinity.
After stabilization, the ECAWP Facility product water used for indirect potable
reuse will be chlorinated to ensure that a free chlorine residual is maintained in the
pipeline to Lake Jennings. Backwash flows from the microfiltration process will be
collected and returned to the ECWRF influent stream ahead of the primary
clarifiers. Reverse osmosis (RO) concentrate will be discharged to the Metro
System via the East County Residuals Line (a regional brine51 line) for treatment
and disposal. The discharge of RO concentrate will bypass the City’s North City
Water Reclamation Plant and Pure Water facilities and be directed to the City’s
E.W. Blom Point Loma Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment Plant
2.1.4. Potable Reuse Conveyance, Dechlorination, and Reservoir Augmentation
Chlorinated advanced treated recycled water is conveyed to Lake Jennings via a
12.5 MGD product water pump station, located at the ECAWP Facility and a
53,500 foot long, 24-inch diameter pipeline. The dechlorination facility adjacent to
Lake Jennings will reduce chlorine residual levels in the discharged water to
nondetectable levels. Advanced treated recycled water is discharged to Lake
Jennings via a submerged Y-shaped nozzle structure.
2.1.5. East County Residuals Line
The East County Residuals Line diverts brine from the ECAWP Facility and
centrate from the Solids Handling Facility to wastewater conveyance facilities that
feed into the City’s E.W. Blom Point Loma Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment
Plant bypassing the City’s North City Water Reclamation Plant and Pure Water
facilities.
2.2. Discharge Point and

===PLANNED CHANGES===

