The SOCWA CTP has a secondary-treatment capacity of 6.7 MGD with the
following wastewater treatment unit operations and processes: coarse screening,
aerated grit removal, primary clarification, activated sludge aeration, and
secondary clarification. A portion of the secondary-treated wastewater receives
tertiary treatment through the SCWD AWT at the SOCWA CTP. The SCWD AWT
includes chemical addition, coagulation, filtration, and chlorine disinfection. The
SCWD AWT has a tertiary-treatment capacity of 9 MGD.
The San Diego Water Board’s Order No. 97-52 establishes reclamation
requirements for the reuse of tertiary-treated wastewater from the SCWD AWT in
the San Diego Region.
Waste activated sludge from the SOCWA CTP is thickened using dissolved air
flotation and pumped via a four-mile-long pipeline to the SOCWA RTP for
treatment and disposal. SOCWA CTP screenings and grit are transported by a
private contractor to a Class I sanitary landfill in Simi Valley, California.
Secondary-treated wastewater not recycled at the SOCWA CTP is discharged to
the ACOO under this Order. From January 2016 to November 2020, the reported
average influent daily flow to the SOCWA CTP was 2.7 MGD and the average
effluent daily flow from the SOCWA CTP to the ACOO was 2.3 MGD.
2.1.3. Irvine Ranch Water District Los Alisos Water Reclamation Plant (WRP)
The Los Alisos WRP is located at 22312 Muirlands Boulevard in Lake Forest,
California and provides wastewater treatment to a population of approximately
56,000 residents11 within the service area of the Irvine Ranch Water District.
10 Estimated population based on an average influent flow of 2.90 MGD during January 2015 through
June 2016 at the SOCWA CTP.
11 Estimate based on an average influent flow of 3.35 MGD during January 2015 through June 2016 at
the Los Alisos WRP.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-7
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9-2022-0006
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
Secondary-treatment capacity at the Los Alisos WRP is 7.5 MGD and includes
screening and aerated lagoons.
Biosolids are conveyed to the Irvine Ranch Water District Michelson Water
Reclamation Plant in Irvine for processing per requirements established by the
California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Santa Ana Region (Santa Ana
Water Board) Order No. R8-2015-0024 (NPDES No. CA8000326). Screenings
and grit from the Los Alisos WRP influent are hauled to a Class I Landfill.
A portion of the secondary-treated wastewater receives tertiary treatment, which
includes chemical addition, flash mixing, coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation,
filtration, and chlorine disinfection. Los Alisos WRP tertiary-treatment facilities
provide 5.5 MGD of capacity. Disinfected tertiary-treated wastewater produced at
the Los Alisos WRP is used within the San Diego and Santa Ana Regions.
By letter dated July 22, 2016, the San Diego Water Board memorialized an
agreement between the Santa Ana Water Board and San Diego Water Board to
designate the Santa Ana Water Board as the sole Regional Water Board
responsible for regulating the treatment, use, and distribution of tertiary-treated
wastewater from the Los Alisos WRP.
Secondary-treated wastewater not recycled at the Los Alisos WRP is discharged
to the ACOO under this Order. From January 2016 to November 2020, the
reported average influent daily flow to the Los Alisos WRP was 3.3 MGD and the
average effluent daily flow from the Los Alisos WRP to the ACOO was 1.3 MGD.
2.1.4. El Toro Water District Water Reclamation Plant (WRP)
The El Toro Water District WRP is located at 23542 Moulton Parkway in Laguna
Woods, California and provides wastewater treatment to a population of
approximately 52,000 residents12 within the service area of the El Toro Water
District.
The El Toro Water District WRP has a secondary-treatment capacity of 6.0 MGD
with the following wastewater treatment unit operations and processes: flow
equalization, bar screening, aerated grit removal, fine screening, activated sludge
aeration, and secondary clarification. A portion of the secondary-treated
wastewater receives tertiary treatment, which includes chemical addition, rotating
disk cloth media filtration, and chlorine disinfection. The tertiary-treatment
capacity is 3.7 MGD.
The El Toro Water District WRP recycled water is currently used within the Santa
Ana Region pursuant to requirements established by the Santa Ana Water Board
Order No. R8-2015-0023.
Waste activated sludge is thickened using dissolved air floatation and then
trucked to the SOCWA RTP for treatment and disposal. Screenings and grit are
transported by a private contractor to a sanitary landfill in Simi Valley, California.
12 Based on an average influent flow of 3.12 MGD during January 2015 through June 2016 at the El Toro
Water District WRP.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-8
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9-2022-0006
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
Secondary-treated wastewater not recycled at the El Toro Water District WRP is
discharged to the ACOO under this Order. From January 2016 to November
2020, the reported average influent daily flow to the El Toro Water District WRP
was 3.1 MGD and the average effluent daily flow from the El Toro Water District
WRP to the ACOO was 2.4 MGD.
2.1.5. Irvine Desalter Project Portable Water Treatment System (PWTS)
The Irvine Desalter Project is a multifaceted groundwater project owned and
operated by Irvine Ranch Water District. One of the facets of the Irvine Desalter
Project is the Irvine Desalter Project PWTS, located at 26 Waterworks Way in
Irvine, California. At this facility, Irvine Ranch Water District extracts up to 6 MGD
of groundwater from wells upgradient of a contaminated groundwater plume in
Irvine, California. Extracted groundwater undergoes the following treatment
process: greensand filtration for the removal of manganese; chemical addition
(pH adjustment and threshold inhibitors); cartridge filtration; reverse osmosis
(RO); addition of sodium hypochlorite (bleach) and decarbonation; and final
chemical treatment (sodium hydroxide, bleach, and aqueous ammonia). Irvine
Ranch Water District conveys the treated potable supply to its potable water
system and up to 1.0 MGD of the waste brine from the RO to the ACOO. From
January 2016 to November 2020, the reported average effluent daily flow from
the Irvine Desalter Project PWTS to the ACOO was 0.6 MGD.
2.1.6. Irvine Desalter Project Shallow Groundwater Unit (SGU)
The other facet of the Irvine Desalter Project is the Irvine Desalter Project SGU,
located at 7000 Marine Way in Irvine, California. At this facility, Irvine Ranch
Water District treats groundwater that has been contaminated by volatile organic
compounds (primarily trichloroethylene) on or near the former Marine Corps Air
Station El Toro. As part of this operation, up to 0.85 MGD of groundwater from
extraction wells within the Department of the Navy Shallow Groundwater Unit is
treated using air stripping to remove volatile organic compounds. Irvine Ranch
Water District discharges up to 0.85 MGD of treated groundwater to the ACOO.
From January 2016 to November 2020, the reported average effluent daily flow
from the Irvine Desalter Project SGU to the ACOO was 0.6 MGD.
2.1.7. South Coast Water District Aliso Creek Water Reclamation Facility (WRF)
The South Coast Water District Aliso Creek WRF is located at 28303 Alicia
Parkway in Laguna Niguel, California, at the SOCWA CTP. This facility was
formerly called the South Coast Water District Aliso Creek Water Harvesting
Project in the previous order, Order No. R9-2012-0013. The facility was originally
designed to capture and treat urban runoff from Aliso Creek. During the August
26, 2021 inspection, the Aliso Creek WRF was treating tertiary-treated
wastewater from the SOCWA CTP, not urban runoff from Aliso Creek due to the
low flows within Aliso Creek. If the Aliso Creek WRF captures urban runoff from
Aliso Creek, the bypass flow in Aliso Creek is required to by at least 4.7 cubic
feet per second (cfs). The SCWD originally projected average flows of 10 cfs in
Aliso Creek; however, current average flows in Aliso Creek is less than 4.7 cfs.
Attachment F – Fact Sheet F-9
SOCWA ORDER NO. R9-2022-0006
ALISO CREEK OCEAN OUTFALL NPDES NO. CA0107611
Since starting the Aliso Creek WRF in 2015, SCWD has only captured flows from
Aliso Creek for about one hour. Treatment includes coarse screening, filtration,
and RO. The South Coast Water District Aliso Creek WRF discharges up to 0.32
MGD of RO waste brine to the ACOO. From January 2016 to November 2020,
the reported average effluent daily flow from the South Coast Water District Aliso
Creek WRF to the ACOO was 0.07 MGD.
2.1.8. Land Outfalls Tributary to the ACOO
The waste brine from the Irvine Desalter Project PWTS and treated groundwater
from the Irvine Desalter Project SGU discharges to the South Irvine Brine Line.
The waste brine and treated groundwater in the South Irvine Brine Line
commingle with the secondary-treated wastewater from the Los Alisos WRP at
the start of the ACOO Land Outfall Reach A, a 11,904-feet-long pipeline with a
capacity of 7.5 MGD. The effluent from Irvine Desalter Project and Los Alisos
WRP commingle with the secondary-treated wastewater from the El Toro Water
District WRP at the start of the ACOO Land Outfall Reach B, a 4,012-feet-long
pipeline with a capacity of 15 MGD. The ACOO Land Outfall Reach B discharges
to the ACOO Land Outfall Reach C, a 3,654-feet-long pipeline with a capacity of
15 MGD. The ACOO Land Outfall Reach C discharges to the ACOO Land Outfall
Reach D, a 6,860-feet-long pipeline with a capacity of 20 MGD. At the end of the
ACOO Land Outfall Reach D, the effluent from the above four facilities
discharges to the ACOO Land Outfall Reach E. The secondary-treated
wastewater from the SOCWA RTP flows through the RTP land outfall and
discharges to the start of the ACOO Land Outfall Reach E, commingling with the
effluent from the Irvine Desalter Project, Los Aliso WRP, and El Toro Water
District WRP. The ACOO Land Outfall Reach E is a 17,210-feet-long pipeline
with a capacity of 34.4 MGD. At the end of the ACOO Land Outfall Reach E, the
effluent from the Irvine Desalter Project, Los Aliso WRP, El Toro Water District
WRP, and SOCWA RTP discharges to the Aliso Creek Land Outfall and
commingles with the secondary-treated wastewater from the SOCWA CTP and
waste brine from the South Coast Water District Aliso Creek WRF. The Aliso
Creek Land Outfall is a 5,405-feet-long pipeline with a capacity of 50 MGD and
discharges to the ACOO. Attachment B provides a map of all the land outfalls
and facilities.

===PLANNED CHANGES===

