Mr. Kemp, Mr. Romero, and Mr. Mauger all arrived shortly thereafter.
The entrance to the WWTF and the headworks is at the southeast corner of the property. We discussed my objectives,
which were to familiarize myself with the existing WWTF and the land proposed for the expansion of the WWTF. While
the overall appearance of the WWTF is good in that it is free of weeds and well kept, the WWTF is old and in need of
replacement. At the entrance to the WWTF, there is an old trickling filter and clarigester that have not been operational
since 1985 when the WWTF was last updated (Photograph No.1). The existing WWTF is an aerated lagoon system
designed to remove BOD and total suspended solids (TSS). Raw wastewater or influent enters at the headworks where
it passes through a comminutor (grinder), prior to being discharged to an unlined complete-mix aerated lagoon
(Photograph No. 2). From the complete-mix aerated lagoon, the effluent is discharged to one of six unlined oxidation
lagoons, where the effluent percolates into the underlying soil/substrate and evaporates. Effluent in excess of what the
ponds can hold is discharged to about 32 acres of adjacent pasture land. A slight sewage odor was noted in the area.
Solids are not screened and accumulate in the complete-mix pond. There is limited information on solids disposal and it
appears sludge has not been removed since 2003 (see file review).
I walked the perimeter of the complete-mix pond and photographed it and the surrounding “oxidation” ponds
(Photographs Nos. 5 and 6). The land application area contained abundant green vegetation and standing water was
visible in the land application area and in the segment of the Van Ness Slough that is directly adjacent and west of the
western land application area (Photographs Nos. 7 and 8). It was unclear if the standing water in both areas was
effluent, rainwater, and/or a combination of both, but it had rained (0.36 inches recorded at Fresno State on 5 March
2017) just two days earlier and this winter season has had higher than average rainfall in the region. The existing pond
berms are in generally fair to poor condition, but the southwestern corner of oxidation pond No. 5 had very little
freeboard (only about 8 inches). However, the northern pond berm appeared to have about two feet of freeboard. It
appears the southern end has sunk or subsided.
The surrounding lands are primarily in agricultural production (Photograph No. 3) and the land directly north contains a
confined animal (poultry) operation (Photograph No. 4). There are some rural residences within 5 miles of the WWTF,
and the town of Riverdale is about a mile south of the WWTF (Photograph No. 9). There is some oil field activity in the
area west of the WWTF as shown in Photograph 10. In summary, the WWTF is old, in disrepair, and is in need of
replacement as proposed.
FACILITIES INSPECTION REPORT PAGE 3 OF 10
RIVERDALE PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SAMPLING INFORMATION AND OBSERVATIONS
Were samples collected during the inspection? Yes No Are sample results included in report? Yes No
Did discharger collect split samples? Yes No
SELF-MONITORING REPORT REVIEW SUMMARY
Influent flows are primarily from residential users, but there are some commercial and institutional connections. The
existing Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs), Order 85-252 allow a maximum flow of 0.25 mgd and the average
flow into the WWTF in 2016 was 0.21 mgd. The Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP) doesn’t require influent
monitoring, but the Discharger analyzed the influent for a select list of constituents on two consecutive days in May 2016
as summarized in the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

