[Page 1]
2 Setback established by California Plumbing Code, Table K-1.
3 Setback established by California Code of Regulations, title 22, section 60310(d).
4 Instead of the minimum setback distance of 50 feet listed in the General Order, the Discharger
proposed a minimum setback distance of 31 feet for the proposed evaporation ponds. A minimum
setback distance of 31 feet is satisfactory provided the Discharger includes appropriate means to
preclude public access to the ponds (i.e., fencing) and conducts the required monthly observations of
the ponds to determine if nuisance conditions are present.
[Page 2]
Mr. Jeff Gonzalez, President - 3 - 30 July 2018
Mr. Jon Demsky, General Manager
Stratford Public Utility District
The Discharger shall comply with all of the pond system requirements specified in Section B.5
of the General Order.
As discussed in the attached memorandum, the Water Quality Control Plan for the Tulare Lake
Basin, Second Edition, revised July 2016 (Tulare Lake Basin Plan) includes more stringent
effluent limitation for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). Therefore, this NOA includes the
advance primary treatment effluent limitation required by the Basin Plan for BOD. The
Discharger shall not exceed the following effluent limitations, as summarized in the following
table:
Effluent Limitations for the Wastewater Treatment System1
Wastewater Pond or Trickling Filter (not including residential recirculating sand filters)
Constituent Units Limit
BOD mg/L 70 (monthly average)
BOD denotes biochemical oxygen demand
mg/L denotes milligrams per liter
1 Once the

===PLANNED CHANGES===

proposed upgrades are completed, the limitation included in this table applies to the treated effluent after treatment and
prior to discharge to the evaporation/percolation ponds. Until then, the effluent limitation applies at the southeast corner of
evaporation/percolation Pond 6.
Provision E.1 of the General Order requires dischargers enrolled under the General Order to
prepare and implement the following reports within 90 days after the NOA becomes effective
with the rescission of WDRs Order 82-068:
• Spill Prevention and Emergency Response Plan (Provision E.1.a)
• Sampling Analysis Plan (Provision E.1.b)
• Sludge Management Plan (Provision E.1.c)
The General Order re