Systems, can provide guidance.
15. Transport and treatment facilities and permanent disposal ponds shall be adequately
protected against overflow, flooding, or washout as the result of a 100-year
frequency flood or 100-year, 24-hour storm.
16. All disposal areas shall be on land owned or leased and controlled by the
discharger.
17. Operation of collection, treatment, and disposal systems shall be in a manner that
precludes public contact with wastewater.
18. Collected screenings, sludges, and other solids removed from liquid wastes shall be
disposed of in a manner consistent with Part 503 in Title 40 of the Code of Federal
Regulations or Section 20005 et seq. of Title 27 of the California Code of
Regulations and as approved by the Executive Officer.
19. Wastewater treatment plants shall be supervised and operated by persons
possessing certificates of appropriate grade pursuant to the California Water Code
and Title 23 of the California Code of Regulations.
20. The discharger shall allow Central Coast Water Board and staff, or an authorized
representative (including an authorized contractor acting as a representative of the
Board), upon presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required
by law, to:
WDR Standard Provisions -3- December 5, 2013
a. Enter upon premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or
conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this order.
b. Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of this order.
c. Inspect at reasonable times any facility, equipment (including monitoring and
control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this
order.
d. Photograph, sample, or monitor for the purpose of showing compliance with
this order any substances or parameters at any location.
21. After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this order may be terminated or modified
for cause, including, but not limited to:
a. Violation of any term or condition contained in this order.
b. Obtaining this order by misrepresentation, or by failure to disclose fully all
relevant facts.
c. A change in any condition or endangerment to human health or environment
that requires a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the
authorized discharge.
d. A material change in character, location, or volume of the discharge.
22. The order does not authorize commission of any act causing injury to the property of
another, does not convey any property rights of any sort, does not remove liability
under federal, state, or local laws, and does not guarantee a capacity right.
23. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge
or sludge use or disposal in violation of this order that has a reasonable likelihood of
adversely affecting human health or the environment.
24. The discharger shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct adverse
impacts on the environment resulting from noncompliance with this order.
25. Provisions of this order are severable. If any provision of the order is found invalid,
the remainder of the order shall not be affected.
26. The discharger shall furnish, within a reasonable time, any information the Central
Coast Water Board may request to determine compliance with this order or to
determine whether cause exists for modifying or terminating this order. The
discharger shall also furnish to the Board upon request copies of records required to
be kept by this order.
WDR Standard Provisions -4- December 5, 2013
27. Safeguards shall be provided to ensure maximal compliance with all terms and
conditions of this order. Safeguards shall include preventative and contingency
plans and may also include alternative power sources, stand-by generators,
retention capacity, operating procedures, or other precautions. Preventative and
contingency plans for controlling and minimizing the effect of accidental discharges
shall:
a. Identify possible situations that could cause "upset," “overflow," “bypass," or
other noncompliance. (Loading and storage areas, power outage, waste
treatment unit outage, and failure of process equipment, tanks, or pipes
should be considered.)
b. Evaluate the effectiveness of present facilities and procedures and describe
procedures and steps to minimize or correct any adverse environmental
impact resulting from noncompliance with the order.
28. Physical facilities shall be designed and constructed according to accepted
engineering practice and shall be capable of full compliance with this order when
properly operated and maintained. Proper operation and maintenance shall be
described in an Operation and Maintenance Manual.
29. Facilities shall be accessible during the wet weather season.
30. Should additional data become available through monitoring or investigation that
indicates compliance with this order is not adequately protecting groundwater, the
Central Coast Water Board may review and revise this order as appropriate.
B. General Monitoring Requirements
1. Monitoring location, minimum sampling frequency, and sampling method for each
parameter shall comply with the Monitoring and Reporting Program of this order.
Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures approved under 40 CFR
Part 136, entitled "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants," unless other test procedures have been specified in this order.
2. If results of monitoring a pollutant appear to violate

===PLANNED CHANGES===

